ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-011-108.u1	108. Members Martin Lank's proposal, David Kádner, Marek Černoch, Olga Havlová, Jana Hnyková, Karel Fiedler, Jiří Štětina and Augustin Karel Andrle Sylor for the issue of the anti-terrorist law /German press 670/ - first reading I prosit that Mr Martin Lank present the proposal for the appellants.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-011-108.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Member of the Government, dear fellow Members, let me introduce the House Press 670 for the Dawn MP. It's a proposal for a law against terrorism. This proposal is primarily the adoption of key counter-terrorism measures applied in Slovakia as a response to the current wave of terrorism in Europe. We didn't want to start making up something completely new. We did not want to rediscover America, as they say, and we only carried out the transfer of basic ideas from the Slovak counter-terrorist package to the Czech rule of law. As I say, these measures are taken from Slovakia. It is a state to which we are historically and culturally most reliable, and it also does not exclude such proposals from the standard of measures that we should adopt in the context of security. Now, to the very measures contained in the bill against terrorism. Firstly, we are extending the crime of promoting terrorism to financing activities that are not directly related to terrorism. Any other assistance to terrorists will therefore be criminal, even if it is not necessary to produce explosive devices or to supply weapons. Let me give you an example. For example, someone will advise them on how best to fit in with Czech society, or help them to find housing or a car. The second measure introduces criminal liability of legal persons. On the basis of Slovak legislation, it is proposed to extend the criminal liability of legal persons to all terrorist offences. For example, the company will send money to someone who will use it to prepare a terrorist attack. The third measure approved in Slovakia in the context of the second anti-terrorist package is to facilitate the imposition of an investigative link for suspected terrorism. However, since we have submitted this law, the amendment to the Criminal Code has entered into force, which introduces some of our proposed measures in some form. I'm not gonna dive in here long enough that the government rejected our proposal, the original one, rejected it, and then basically copied it and presented it in pale blue. Even in an accelerated regime, because at once, you, esteemed members of the government coalition, have found that we were right and that we really need such a law, not only do we need to have it, but that we even have to have it. But I want to say that we are glad that these measures are already in some form. [[15.50 hours]] However, one important point is not in the current legal order and this is to facilitate the imposition of investigative links for suspected terrorism. As you all know, there must be at least one of the three reasons for imposing an investigative link. And that's prestigious, colous, or runaway. The court must always carefully file evidence to prove the cause of the detention. We consider terrorism to be such a dangerous crime that, in this particular case, in our view, it should not be necessary to prove the reason for the link. But it doesn't mean, I'm warning you, unconditionally automatic bonding. The competent judge will always have to make a fair decision on custody. But if I simplify it, the judge won't have to prove that the terrorist is about to re-create the bomb and blow something up. The judge will be able to place a link on him without delay. Since it is a take-over of measures that have been applied without problems in Slovakia, another EU country, it is clear that this bill does not conflict with international treaties or with Union law, because otherwise it simply could not have passed in Slovakia. I therefore ask you to release him for second reading, where it is also possible to adapt him, so that he is in line with the legislation adopted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-011-108.u3	Thank you, Mr. plaintiff. I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading by Mr Zdeněk Ondráček. Please, Mr. Ambassador. I would also like to point out that you have received the Government's position as House Press 670/1. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-011-108.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister of the Environment, the only member of the government that you are here, House Press 670, which is being presented by a group of Members, aims to respond to the current wave of terrorism and, as the authors themselves say, have inspired themselves in Slovakia. However, it should be noted that they did not do so well. In fact, it is not a new law, but an amendment to the Criminal Code, the Criminal Code and the Criminal Liability Act of Legal Persons. But even these three amendments to the law appear rather chaotic and perhaps redundant according to the submitted material. The Government of the Czech Republic discussed this proposal, and, as my colleague previous speaker said, it disagreed with it because the amendment introduces the legal definition of terrorism into the criminal code, which the government considers to be redundant, legally technicalally structured and, above all, unclear and confusing. In view of the proposed wording, the Government considers this definition to be redundant, as I have mentioned, since its purpose is only to introduce a comprehensive concept for a group of offences which would be used in other provisions of the Criminal Code, the Criminal Code and the Criminal Liability Act instead of their enumeration. As my colleague, the previous speaker, mentioned, a proposal from the Group of Members was also discussed by the Government, which we discussed as the Parliamentary Press of 886, which was adopted in the accelerated procedure at first reading. But if we wanted to be objective again, the government did the same thing when discussing material 886, because if you look at the material of the House of Press 886, so in Section 129a, which is called a terrorist group, it says: The terrorist group is a community of at least three criminally responsible persons of a more permanent nature, there is a division of activities between members, its activity is characterised by planning and coordination and is aimed at committing the crime of treason committed in the form of a terrorist attack or terror - § 309, crime of a terrorist attack - § 311 or a crime of terror - § 312. [[hereinafter referred to as "terrorist offence']] So if the government, in its explanatory report in the House press hearing from a group of Members under the House press of 670, which we are currently debating, is accusing a group of Members who have submitted the law, as they are merely trying to create a comprehensive concept for a group of offences, then a few months later, the government did the same thing. The material itself is probably debatable from my point of view, we can discuss it. I volunteered for the discussion, and then I will speak with specific suggestions in the discussion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-011-108.u5	I thank the rapporteur and open a general debate, which Mr Jan Klán was the first to come forward. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-011-108.u6	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon, Mr Vice-President, Mr Minister, Mr Submitter, rapporteur, fellow Members. I must begin by saying that I am very sorry that the Prime Minister is not here either, and neither is the Minister of the Interior, but let's say even justice, there can also be some kind of defense, because this issue is intersecting with the various ministries, but there should be a Prime Minister, who should be interested in the fight against terrorism and should be the person who should be here. However, I did not focus my contribution entirely on the law presented here by the Úsvit movement, but I took it a little bit with some consideration, which I wrote sometime last year, sometime at the end of last year, and I called it a mined Europe. My article or contribution is based on the theory of the late sociologist Zygmunt Bauman, who created the theory of liquid society and liquid modernity. At the end of his life he came up with a term of liquid fear and in that case we can fit it into liquid terrorism. Let it be Nice, Paris, Brussels and Berlin, the denominator of all these places is terror, destruction and death. Yes, terrorists were the only ones attacking these places. Each time with other means of killing - either weapons or last but not least a truck. There is no question that even a car can be used as a weapon of mass destruction. We've dealt with this problem before, some 15 years ago, when I was still studying, at college, at the Philosophical Faculty, that a car can be used as a tool of terrorism. And no one intended to regulate access to cars. I'm just saying that this could be addressed in some way, because it's a truck that turns out to be one of the great means that terrorists can use in some way. Terrorists have always tried to create fear and attack the Western values of our Euro-Atlantic civilization. Clearly, the world resembles a minefield. You never know when you'll enter this field and if anything happens to you or your loved ones. You can never know this because we are living in a time of liquid society that is changing into globalization. A map of these minefields, where something can happen to you and where there is the greatest possible risk of terrorism, may be kept secret. Maybe it isn't, but it's hard to guess where something happens or figure them out. It is with the increase in immigration to Europe that almost the entire old continent is mined. We must make this clear and responsible that, of course, the increase in immigration leads hand in hand to an increase in terrorism. In my opinion, the following three factors are responsible for the state of mining: Firstly, the absence of fixed borders where different checks are carried out at border crossing points. It's actually a time before the so-called introduction. the Schengen area, the free movement of persons, goods and capital. The borders of the national states are therefore imaginary in this case, they do not exist, they have melted. The borders are melted and impervious. In fact, they do not exist at all, and therefore everyone can cross them as he pleases and as he wants and wherever he wants. [[16.00 hours]] Secondly, an uncontrolled stream of immigrants or refugees towards Europe. The absence of EU external borders, when these borders have also melted. And they often melted into the sea where it's hard to protect. And thirdly, the little efficiency of the secret services. Yes, secret services prove inefficient, often underestimating the possibility of a terrorist attack. Whatever it was. In Belgium or Berlin, secret services have always had indications that there might be an attack, but they couldn't stop it. We all live in a globalised world that is full of danger and therefore uncertainty, unfortunately. In my opinion, this increase in danger has caused capitalist globalisation, which is based on risk as such and risk trade. So terrorism has become a global problem. That's an indisputable fact. Global risks are growing, and terrorism is one of the global risks. This unhappy state needs to be addressed. Otherwise, this year, because I wrote it at the end of last year, is intersected by even greater terrorist attacks. Of course, we're here to discuss how to stand up to it. Because if there's anything going to explode, murder terrorists or their controlled weapons, e.g. by me mentioned trucks, so again, in my opinion, there will be the following phenomena, when people begin to arm themselves first. As part of their security and security, weapons or similar means of personal protection, whether they are stunners or other means, will begin to be equipped. This is also happening. It has already been discussed in some way of arming, and the EU wants to limit it in some way. So this factor is really starting to occur here. Second of all, they're gonna start holding on. They begin to hide in their homes, which will be surrounded by high walls, fences, and after the land for example. running around some nice ripper. Some big dog that's gonna protect them from someone who's gonna come from the outside like some kind of enemy. To make it safer, their space will be monitored by a camera system. Yes, it does now. You have so-called here. liquid surveillance, which is also being used today as a term when you're under surveillance everywhere. You have cameras all over the place, and people are getting more and more camera systems to monitor their surroundings because they are logically afraid. Well, thirdly, what we're all worried about is that they're going to become radical. Xenophobic, radical or other fascist movements will increase. This has already been shown to us in the elections to the European Parliament, when in many countries the extreme right-wing parties have strengthened, be it in France, Marine Le Pen or, for example, in many countries. in Hungary, Jobbik. It may also be in Finland and other countries. Nationalist tendencies are growing, and this is really dramatic. Is there a solution that would have preceded the above, what did I say? I'm sure you will. In my view, this is the following solution: firstly, a return to the solid borders of the national states. Border checks. That would reduce the Schengen area in a certain way. Of course, this can happen, and I have no problem personally, because we will reduce the potential risk of terrorism. It's not the only way anyone gets through those borders, even if they're still liquid in some way and they're vague. But it's gonna be hard to get through those boundaries. Secondly, of course, clear rejection of immigration quotas following the model of Slovakia or Hungary. Third, a clear control of immigration through our territory. And that's why I'm sorry that the Home Secretary isn't here to give us information about how things are or how things were in January. There are certainly other solutions, such as monitoring Islamic clergy, radicalizing groups, etc. This, for example, will be the case. is happening in Germany or France, even if it doesn't help them in any way. But that is also necessary to implement. It is precisely at the time of this liquid terrorism that it is difficult to ensure the safety of citizens. But this global risk can be reduced by eliminating the possibilities for terrorists to enter our society. It's hard to recognize terrorists or potential lone wolves or those that activate sleeper cells. It's always a problem. Always a problem. And it's going to get even bigger, because of course, this immigration is going to grow more and more. Consider that global warming may be related to some immigration. They say it has to do with everything. And, of course, the natural conditions of global warming, when it warms up in the very parts of the world where immigrants come from, when the temperature grows more and more, they will, of course, run and run, of course, even in the water. That's proven. Paul Collier wrote the book Exodus on how migration changes our world. And he's clearly taking it apart... I don't think it's a humorous subject, but when someone's having fun, please. In my contribution here, I tried to point out the problem in a slightly larger context, especially from a sociological point of view, namely Bauman Zygmunt, who analyzed our current liquid society. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-011-108.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I am now registering two factual points. Mr Chalupa, Mr Snopek, will be the first to speak. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-011-108.u8	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, on this subject, I am able to speak here for four hours of the academic problem of terrorism, because it has been here for thousands of years. And we can talk about anything long and long and long and nothing. I will not agree with the bill put forward by my colleagues, because I believe that we have sufficient armed and security forces here, which, if they work well, will certainly play a role in the fight against terrorism. I believe that we have intelligence that, if they work as they should, will also fulfil their role. We will have to deal with more issues of cyberspace defence. That's what I'm turning to my ODS colleagues because I'm a little uncomfortable with what they're talking about today about Iran, which is a remote danger and cyber defense that doesn't even have the kind of control that nuclear weapons have, and yet they have a much bigger problem than Iran. And of course, the state of the population's readiness, its psychological readiness, knowledge and skill equipment will play a major role. So I guess I'm bored with it, but it's about gate education for schools. It is about building an integrated training centre for the defence and security forces in Vyškov and other things that I have been talking about for two years and for which unfortunately I have not yet found any support. So if these things work, we don't have to make any laws against terrorism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-011-108.u9	Thank you. Mr Snopek withdrew his point of order, but Mr Ondráček came forward with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-011-108.u10	Mr President, I would like to respond to my previous speaker, Bohuslav Chalupa. She's not entirely true that we're resigning, or virtually. They didn't want to cooperate on some sort of defence education, or whatever. Civil defenses. On the contrary. I would very much like us to take this up, to be able to work on this subject, because this is a topic that is certainly relevant to our public, for our education. And only if there was a fire at the school, possibly. to another emergency, so we are not trained, or schools are not trained to respond to such events as would occur in the event of evacuation. Where are the evacuation plans? What kids would do. There are even no internal regulations. So it is not entirely true that we as Members on this subject... [[To a group of entertaining Members:]] I'll wait for my colleagues to testify. She is not interested in the security of the Czech Republic, because they are interested in many other topics. I am so glad that colleagues from social democracy are interested. [[16.10 hours]] So there are topics that we would like to open and we would like to talk about, but we need to open these topics first in the professional parts, i.e. in committees, to find a group of Members who will take up these subjects and be the bearer of these laws. In our debates, Mr President, we have talked about this many times, and I am willing to talk about these issues at any time, because I think that these are topics that are very necessary to make it safe in the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-011-108.u11	Thank you, too. So now, Mrs Hnyková, who is duly applied for, will be prepared by Mr Ondráček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-011-108.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Before I start my speech, I have to respond to my colleague Chalupa through you. All these things you listed here, my colleague, are part of our country's protection. So what you said here, we want to extend it legislatively too, we want to tighten it up. I think that all the preventive measures taken in this area are for the protection of the citizens of our country. So please, let's not disprove things here that something is useless. You said yourself - work as they should. I'm struck by you as the MP who sits here as the coalition that rules. Why don't you push it into the coalition that's here? So instead of all of us joining together and doing everything we can to protect our citizens, we are against each other. And I think that is the problem of the whole Czech Republic. Instead of teaming up, we're jerking off - I don't want to say what anymore. I'm going back to my speech. Europe is subjected to terror as never in modern history. I'm going to put up a sad bloody terrorist attack account in the last two years. January 2015, Paris, attack on the editor of the satirical journal Charlie Hebdo, 12 dead and ten injured. [[expressed by edbo]] Grenade launchers and assault rifles were used. November 2015 again Paris - in the shooting of Islamic suicide bombers died of 130 people, another nearly 400 suffered injuries. Radicals struck in more places at once. March 2016, Brussels. Once again, Islamists attack again in a coordinated manner and in several places. The explosions shook the Brussels airport and the subway station, killed 32 people, and 300 were injured. July 2016, Nice. A Francouz with Tunisian roots killed a truck on the boardwalk, didn't survive 84 people, a terrorist was shot by police officers. July 2016 - a 17-year-old Afghan refugee attacked a train near the Bavarian town of Würzburg. He attacked with a knife and an axe, luckily no one died. The Islamic State has applied to the attack. July 2016, Munich. An 18-year-old Němec attacked with Iranian roots. He has nine dead and nearly two dozen wounded on his conscience. The last big terrorist attack took place on the Advent markets in Berlin on December 19th last year, and I'm sure you remember that, so recently. It killed 12 people, among them a Češka woman. Another 48 were injured and seriously. [[Member's number has not been provided]] As well as others, the Islamic State has applied to this attack. I would've stopped at that last attack. There was a Czech citizen who died. Her name was Naďa Čižmárová. She left behind a little five-year-old boy. If you think he's gonna grow up without his mom, I think we should do everything we can to prevent terrorist attacks. Maybe our bill proposal has some shortcomings, but please let us do everything together to create and complete this bill to protect our citizens. Finally, I would return to my speaker, the rapporteur, who spoke before me about the fact that people are not actually prepared in schools. But they're not even ready on those streets. What we should do, how people should behave on the subway, in big actions, if such an attack were to occur, so that those lives would not be thwarted by unnecessary injuries, because panic always breaks out and these things need to be thought of. That is why I would ask you, my fellow Members, to release this amendment to the second reading and thus create an opportunity for us to supplement and approve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-011-108.u13	Thank you, too, Madame. I note one factual remark from Mr Chalupa. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-011-108.u14	Thank you for the floor. Very briefly, without questioning what the previous speaker said here, my colleague. I'd like to remind you that there was an attack by Mr. Breivik, who cost about 70 or how many lives. Then we also had the Uherský Brod case here, where we dealt with it both on GIBS and on the Security Committee. So it's not just about terrorists from other countries, it's about problems that can actually occur in our environment, and no one can guess. Again, everyone knows my e-mail address. On the Security Committee, to assure my colleague that it's not that I don't care, I even have a feasibility study on the integrated training centre, but the Home Office doesn't want to participate for such, say, interesting reasons that there's no money. I don't take it like that. But we'll talk about it further. We're trying to do something about it on the Defense Committee. We're also doing this on the Security Committee, on committees, on Military Intelligence. Now we enforce the Cyber Defense Act, etc. So it's not like we're not doing it. I'm telling you, everyone has an address. Whoever wants to join the initiative, whether it's the gate education, the renewal of the gate club, the integrated training center, write it down, we'll make a legislative group, and we'll get to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-011-108.u15	Thank you, too. Another point of fact is made by Mr Jakubčík. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-011-108.u16	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'd like to see my colleague Hnyková. I'd like to tell her through you that I'm not really gonna get in touch with her. First of all. Two. The editor was Charlie Hebdo. And thirdly, if a grenade launcher were used, that number would be significantly higher. There was only one hand grenade used. Thank you. So I'm asking for accuracy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-011-108.u17	Thank you. Now with a point of fact, please, Mr Černoch. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-011-108.u18	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would only respond to my colleague Jakubčík, through you. That's just a distraction from the problem. Yes, we're sorry, it wasn't a grenade launcher, it was a grenade. However, he leaves the dead behind, whether it's a grenade launcher or a grenade, whether it's a machine gun, whatever it is, a truck, whatever it is. That's what this is about, security, not whether it was a grenade launcher or whether it was a grenade. To my colleague Chalupa through you. Our chairman does a lot of things because he's a former soldier, a man who's experienced it from practice, even suffered a very serious injury. Our point of view isn't that we want to do something just like that. But the problem is here and it will be. And if you look, whether it's foreign media, relevant foreign media, it's not what we're talking about, but when something happens with us. And that's what we want to prevent. We don't want anything to happen here. It's not a fantasy, what we're putting forward. We did it a year and a half ago, maybe two years ago. At the time, everyone was laughing. What time is it today? How many terrorist attacks have happened in the meantime? And yes, it doesn't matter if he's a foreign terrorist or if he's a national. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-011-108.u19	Thank you. Mr Schwarz has a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-011-108.u20	Good afternoon, everyone. Mr. Managing Officer, colleagues, I don't want to argue with anyone here. I just want to return the thing the way it is. I understand. Mr. Jan Klán's performance, I listened to him and I believe that some things were interesting. I'm listening to your performance. I just want to tell you, because I've taken care of this thing, I've read it, and what's going on here. Colleagues and colleagues who have submitted a proposal are only talking about the following. The fact that it tells the misfortune is sad, but this thing only deals with it, it introduces a legal definition of what terrorism is into the criminal code. This is definitely not gonna stop a truck or something. They shall replace the date of approval of the offence by the date of payment of the offence. It introduces the concept of terrorism into the law on criminal liability of legal persons and, fourthly, places a new reason for remanding into custody what is the reason behind the prosecution of terrorism. I beg you, our penal code, the penal code remembers these things in the past. I'm not saying it's bad, good. I'm not an expert like my colleague Válková here. I just wanted to go back so we could know what this proposal meant. Only the things I read. That's why I want to tell you that I can't vote for it either. I understand that, but it's just a non-systemic intervention into a criminal code that works well with us. Everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-011-108.u21	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Now, the rapporteur with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-011-108.u22	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to respond to the brief statements made by my previous speakers, Mrs Hnyková, by means of you, before I speak properly in the debate. I have only mentioned schools and the readiness of students and children in our primary and secondary schools as one of the examples, because I am bound by a two-minute deadline for a factual remark. If I were to talk about the readiness of the civilian population for a terrorist attack, I could spend here, as my colleague said, even until the end of today's day. I only mentioned school and school as a school facility where I said it on purpose, because each of you has either children or grandchildren who go to school, and ask them if they know what to do in the event of a declaration only a fire of their school. I don't take that any other worse act could be committed. And Mr Jakubčík, who is probably not here right now. You know, Mr. President, I think you should go tell the survivors that there's a big difference in whether someone died of a bullet fired from a Kalashnikov or whether they died of a bullet fired from a short firearm 9 mm Ruger or 38 special. I think he's gonna laugh at you, or he's gonna kick your ass. He's not gonna kick you, he's gonna kick you out. Because it's not important what the perpetrator is attacking, but what the result is. So let's not go behind words here with what the previous speakers said. It's not important. The fatal consequences of the terrorist acts committed in Western Europe and those of the dozens of deaths are important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-011-108.u23	Thank you. A point of fact is made by Mr Gabal. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-011-108.u24	Thank you. I don't want to get too involved in this debate, but I have to be more specific here through you. There is simply a difference between a terrorist attack that is militaryly planned, carried out, and military weapons such as Kalashnikov, trained by people such as Istanbul or Bataclan, and an attack that we had the opportunity to see, for example, in Uhersky Brod, by a short weapon or by one of the weapons of a mad man. And if we are to build defenses, and this is important, it is primarily against those organized, planned military attacks and attempts to penetrate them into Europe. And this is what we do mostly to prevent intelligence on all of this, while, of course, those events or accidents, like in Uherský Brod, have to be handled in a completely different way from the point of view of prevention. We saw an attack in Berlin as well. It was realized by a total loser who ended up in his ties to the Islamic State, and it was not primarily the training of the Islamic State, organized by the group, military training and so on. For this reason, I would like to say through you, for example, to the rapporteur that it is necessary not to confuse people by saying that it does not matter if someone is attacking an automatic long weapon in a military compression attack or a personal owned short weapon. Let's just not get it together. We're responsible here for prevention and defense, not for panicking people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-011-108.u25	Thank you. Another factual remark by Mr Ondráček. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-011-108.u26	Thank you, Mr President. To my foreman. Dear colleague, this is a typical confusion about what a terrorist act is and what a criminal offence is. Because a terrorist attack is quite different from what happened in Uhersky Brod. What you're describing here is diametrically different, and you know it yourself, so I don't know why you're confusing the public here. And if you think a terrorist can't attack with short weapons, and so that we can call someone a terrorist, that he must have a long gun and be trained, I don't know what you know about terrorism, because in that case, you know very little.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-011-108.u27	Mr Gabal's point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-011-108.u28	Thank you. By your means, the rapporteur, to quote him... He can't hear, he's having fun. So, to quote you. The difference between the attack in Uhersky Brod and Bataclan, tell the survivors.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-011-108.u29	Thank you. As no one is making a factual statement, Mr Ondráček is duly registered and Mr Grospič is prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-011-108.u30	Thank you, Mr President. I will no longer respond to my previous speaker because it would lose its fundamental meaning. It sometimes doesn't make sense to discuss some things when the other side doesn't hear. The proposal itself. I wanted to mention here the proposal put forward by a group of Members, which, for example, speaks in Section 309a of what terrorism is. In its refusal, the government mentioned that it did not like this very general wording, when it is a general term for a group of offences. And the petitioners say that terrorism means the crime of the Republic being overthrown - § 310 of the Criminal Code, terrorist attack - § 311 of the Criminal Code, terror - § 312 of the Criminal Code, sabotage - § 314, allowing or facilitating the commission of the crime of treason under § 309, of the terrorist attack under § 311 or terror under § 312 by other crimes. If we recall the House Press 886, which the government has put forward here and which has passed in a short procedure, we, as Members, have also adopted in this House the new facts which are and which would probably deserve to be subsumed under the term terrorism. This is specifically a new deed, which is already, and I think that the effectiveness of the House press has already taken place, § 312a - participation in a terrorist group. Then it is a criminal offence under § 312d - financing terrorism, then paragraph 312f - threats by terrorist crime.... And there's one more paragraph, my pages are flipped. There is still a crime of 312e, so it precedes paragraph 312f, as I mentioned, and this is a new crime of promoting and promoting terrorism. [[16.30 hours]] We have adopted all these crimes in the context of the discussion of the House's press 886. And since this material was effective on the first day of the second calendar month following its publication, I think, and you can possibly correct me, but I see, Professor Válková here nods that this House press and, respectively, these new crimes are already part of our penal code. Therefore, if we were to discuss the bill presented by the group of Members, which we are now discussing under House press number 670, we should certainly include in their material in Section 309a under the concept of terrorism new facts which are already part of the criminal law of the Czech Republic at this time. This is not a complaint on the part of the petitioners, because they submitted their material far before the government of House material 886, which we discussed in a short procedure. So this is just a comment that, if we decide to continue working with this proposal by fellow Members, we should know what the current situation is in the field of criminal law. The new factual nature introduced by colleagues here into criminal law, § 365 - the remuneration of a criminal offence. You know, if you read the deed, it's a different form of criminal interaction, and we could look for it somewhere else. But even so, the description of the facts is not ideal. But we would certainly be able to deal with that with colleagues and colleagues on the Constitutional Legal Committee, and your representative, who is on the Constitutional Legal Committee, would certainly contribute to the possibility of such legislation. You yourself declared that you were aware that the government took advantage of the time space when your material, House Press 670, was lying there, and presented its material 886, which I was talking about, and you are ready for such a discussion, for which, of course, you need to be thanked. If we are talking about changing the other parts, you are also talking about amending the law on criminal liability of legal persons, when you want to include the words of a terrorist attack under Section 311 of the Criminal Code, which would replace... Sorry, backwards. That the words of a terrorist attack under Section 311 would now replace the concept of terrorism under § 309a, which basically involves all the crimes that I have mentioned here, and we would have to extend it to those crimes which have already been adopted in the House press of 886. And I'm going to go to the third part of your motion, and that's a change in the penal code, when you basically insert a new Section 67a into Section 67a, the link of the accused of terrorism, which would be: the accused may also be remanded to custody if he is prosecuted for terrorism and if the facts found so far suggest that the action for which the prosecution has been prosecuted has been committed, has the characteristics of the crime, and there are grounds for suspecting that the accused has committed the crime. - This completely denies the criminal proceedings we have in our country, and that is the decision of the court only because someone committed a criminal offence which, if you want a name, a police authority, a processor qualifies as one of the crimes of terrorism or as a terrorist offence according to a new concept, which is already in the current version in the material which we approved in this 886 pursuant to § 129a. That may not be right, because the court cannot decide only on the basis of what criminal or criminal offence has been committed, but it also has to judge all other matters that are important in the decision to take the accused into custody. In other defendants, we have a possibility of reparation. We probably wouldn't even be giving the accused the opportunity to have some kind of substitution in the sense of the Penal Code. Even this material, which means the link of the accused, which would basically become mandatory, would need to be redesigned in some way. So I will go back to the beginning of what the government essentially stated, with the fact that the government at its meeting, which was more than a year ago, and this is the result of our work, January 13, 2016, expressed its opposition to this House's press number 670. I, as a Member, therefore, dare to make a motion to reject this press at first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-011-108.u31	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Válková is reporting with a point of fact. Please, your two minutes, Madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-011-108.u32	Thank you. I just want a refill. Which of those who doubt what has been said here unfortunately in favour of the proposal would like to verify it in its up-to-date version, and it is indeed part of our legal order, so they can look into the amendment to the Criminal Code, which was published under number 455/2016 Coll., and where the House press is currently mentioned is 886. And we have expanded several facts and there are some new facts that essentially cover different forms of criminal interaction in a more complex way, and of course the terrorism mentioned is treated better there. That's what the so-called support means in the Code of Criminal Procedure correspond to. I think this proposal is a little obsolent. It has already been said that the appellants are not to blame, but what we have now approved is better criminal regulation than the one proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-011-108.u33	Thank you, too. Mr Grospič, who is now duly applied for. Mr Leo Luzar will be ready. It's a good thing we're listening to each other, Mr. Ambassador. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-011-108.u34	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. And thank you for your attention, honourable members of the government and esteemed colleagues. Let me also make a few comments or speeches on the press submitted by Members of Mr Martin Lank, David Kádner, Černoch, Olga Havlová, Jana Hynková, Karel Fiedler, Jaroslav Štětina and Augustin Karel Andrle Sylor on the extradition of the anti-terrorist law. I think this is an extremely serious topic which currently has two subtexts in the Czech Republic. Firstly, the real threat of terrorist attacks, as experienced by some countries of the European Union, and not only the European Union, because we should probably not be short-sighted in this, and we should be aware that Europe, the European Union, is not the belly of the world, but that it is happening in other countries, often referred to as third world countries, where terrorist attacks often take an even more brutal and drastic form. I am saying that they deserve to be condemned as well as the attacks that Europe has experienced in the coming years. [[16.40 hours]] To remind you, I would like to say that since 2000, the following major terrorist attacks have occurred in Europe: 26. 3. 2016 at Zaventem airport after the attacks in Brussels. Next, October 26, 2002 - 169 victims in the attack on the sold out Dubrovka Theatre. On February 6, 2004, it was 41 victims who requested an explosion on the Moscow Metro train. On 11 March 2004, 191 victims exploded at 7:30 a.m. 10 bombs placed on trains at Atocha Station in Madrid. On 24 August 2004, it was 89 victims, when two Russian transport planes, which took off within 40 minutes from Domodedovo airport in Moscow, crashed after the suicide attacks of two Chechen women. On September 1, 2004, it was 334 victims in Beslan, North-Asia, where about 40 armed men entered the school and detained more than a thousand hundred people. July 7, 2005 - 56 victims, when four Islamic radicalists born in the United Kingdom, three of them of Pakistani origin, carried out a series of suicide bombings in the morning peak in central London, killing 56 people during which she injured some 700 others. On March 29, 2010, it was 40 victims, when suicide bombers originating in Chechnya were detonated at the Lubjanka metro stations and the Culture Park in central Moscow and killed 40 people and 65 injured. On July 22, 2011, it was 77 victims, when the Norwegian right-wing extremist, mentioned here Breivik, first detonated a bomb at the government buildings in Oslo in a parked van and then carried out the massacre at the camp of the youth organization of the Norwegian Social Democratic Workers' Party on the island of Utöya near Oslo. On November 13, 2015, it was 130 victims, a total of four suicide bombings that took place in Paris. A 22 March 2016 - 34 victims in the explosion at Zaventem airport in Brussels and one victim in Brussels metro. They're the loudest and biggest massacres of terror that have been carried out. Of course, it is a question of how we will define terrorism and how we will approach it. The definition that the Czech legal system often uses is that one of the most common definitions is terrorism defined as planned, thought-out and politically motivated violence directed against non-participating persons serving to achieve the objectives set out. In addition, there are hundreds of other definitions, and my colleagues have spoken about this. It can certainly be said that terrorism is a calculated use of violence or the threat of violence usually directed against non-participating persons in order to create fear through which political, religious or ideological objectives are achieved, and includes criminal crimes that are symbolic in their nature and are often a way of achieving objectives other than criminal acts - a classic crime - aimed at. Nevertheless, I would like to say that the terrorist act that has been defined and taken into the Czech legal order of the Czech Republic within the framework of the EU Council's common position for the application of special measures to combat terrorism number 209/931 of the SBP (?), is defined as a terrorist act and is seen here as a set of acts listed, which, by their nature or context, can seriously jeopardise the operation of a particular state, an international organisation. Within the framework of national legal systems, these are acts that have been committed with intent to seriously intimidate the population, to properly force the government or international organisation to take or not to take specific steps, to seriously destabilize or destroy the fundamental political, political, constitutional, economic or social structures of the country or international organisations, by attacking human lives that can cause death, attacks on the psychological integrity of persons taking or taking hostages, by causing extensive destruction of government or public equipment, transport systems, infrastructure facilities, fixed platforms on the continental shelf, public places or private property, threatening human lives or resulting in weighted ecological losses, the occupation of aircraft, ships or other means of public transport or the transport of goods, the production, possession, transportation, delivery to the use of weapons or explosives of nuclear, chemical or biologicalnature , as well as work on the research or development of suchweapons , the introduction of such dangerous substances into freecirculation , the establishment offires , explosions or the cause of flooding ofgoods , the course of which threatens humanlife , which may also endanger the amount of such essential sources ofsupply , such as human or biologicalnature. Furthermore, the management of a terrorist group, participation in a terrorist group, including the function of an informant, financial or material support provider, with the knowledge that this assistance will help commit the criminal activities of these groups. I would also like to say that for the purposes of the same document, the terrorist group is defined as a structured group composed of more than two persons, established for longer periods of time and taking the steps necessary to commit terrorist acts as part of the division of labour. It's not random, it's a conspiracy. In order to facilitate further action, the EU Council has directly established a list of organisations and persons meeting this definition. The regularly updated list is an addition to the common position adopted by the EU Council on 13 June 2002 in the framework decision on combating terrorism. I would like to say in this context that these things have also been reflected in the legal order of the Czech Republic. They are also known by Penal Code No 40/2009 Coll., which was adopted and defines them in its factual nature in Title IX and the following paragraphs of criminal offences. From this point of view, I think that the proposed law has its basis in view of the fact that terrorism is a serious threat. However, this does not meet the basic criterion, namely the question of how powerful the Czech state is, in particular the government, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Defence are prepared to fight terrorism. Whether, for example, the flights over US drones with which the government has already agreed without questioning one of Parliament's chambers will contribute to combating terrorism or contribute to escalation in the fight against Russia's Federal Republic and further escalation of violence in Europe and the escalation of a potential war threat, which is also a breeding ground of terrorism and provides it with considerable background. From this point of view, I was on purpose quoting terrorist attacks that occurred on the territory of the Russian Federation. In this context, I would just like to document the fact that I therefore take the view that our legal order adequately covers the substance of the terrorist attack. The point is, however, that the law enforcement forces, the Police and the Army of the Czech Republic follow these things, and the government itself approach them responsibly, not only as an external threat, which is seized here and there by journalists or other media and is used in relation to a subject which is very readable, which is commercially interesting to readers, but also creates a huge potential danger in the environment for terrorism to become a real threat in the still peaceful, relatively peaceful Czech Republic. From this point of view, rather than the amendment to this law, and by supplementing our own way with excess facts, we should think about what the government's real responsibility is and how the government wants to take up the practical fight against terrorism.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-011-108.u35	Thank you. Mr Leo Luzar will now appear, Mr Václav Snopek will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-011-108.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Mr. Speaker, allow me also a few words on this bill. There were words about the definition. The definition of terrorism from the perspective of international law. The authors refer to the Criminal Code of the Slovak Republic, from which they believe they quoted the paragraphs they implement into the Czech legal system. I am not quite sure whether the citation or implementation is really the way it is inserted in the Slovak legal order. I fear that certain sentences have been ripped out and inserted into a slightly illogical link in my opinion. In addition to the spelling errors that are here and which have caused me a little more difficult reading than I realized that this is a spelling error and not a purpose, but this can, of course, be corrected in legislative technical matters, is a striking attempt by the authors to release § 365, which speaks about the approval of criminal offences. This paragraph reads: Whoever publicly approves the crime committed, or who publicly praises the criminal, will be punished by imprisonment for up to one year. - I don't understand why they want to release this paragraph. He doesn't have a replacement in their draft new § 365. There is only: Who intends to give consent to the crime - and there is a list of two points (a) and (b) that govern it. But it's not a substitute for this point right here. In those two statements, on those points, it's just the economic aspect of the crime, not the approval. In other words, if I put it into practice, that I will approve the crime verbally, but I will not be involved in his financing, possibly. donations and other things that have to do with it, according to the petitioners' proposal, I'll be fine, I won't be criminally responsible for the approval. I therefore consider the deletion of this Section 365 to be a quite serious error in the proposal. From that title, I would also like the petitioners to clarify this contradiction, if any. they said the reason why they're proposing to release this quite important paragraph in my opinion. This is one of the points where I would very much like to appeal to the petitioner - from the point of view of why. The second reason why, which must, of course, be heard, is the new Section 67a, which they propose to insert into the criminal law of the Czech Republic, which reads: The accused may also be taken into custody if he is prosecuted for terrorism and if the facts established so far suggest that the action for which the prosecution was initiated has been committed, has the characteristics of the crime and there are grounds for suspecting that the accused has committed the crime. - If you listen to the diction here, you'll find it's a negation of negation. I don't understand the meaning of this point, because he's actually denying himself and his strength, what he was created for or designed for. It was designed so that a person who is suspected of terrorism, and that suspicion is very hard to prove, let's say, because the suspicion can only be related to, say, sources of inaccurate or unclear significance, such as monitoring electronic communications, informants and other matters, could be isolated for the necessary time. I am able to understand that, in such a situation, if it were to occur, it would be possible to consider the imposition of a binding as lawful and justified. In my opinion, this is also one of the reasons why the French Republic has been in a state of emergency for so long. Because a state of emergency usually by law allows people to close only on suspicion until they are clarified. And that's why the Francouz, it seems smiling, have kept this state of emergency for so long that in a way they can limit the powers or the protection of the law of their citizens. That is why this sentence, built in my opinion, lacks the basis, the sense why authors want to implement the possibility of terrorism and restrictions on personal freedom, suspicion of terrorism, into our legal order. She misses it because she's illogical. The definition of terrorism has already been clarified by a colleague before me, so I am not going to quote it from the same source that he used, but I will think about how easily exploitable this term is. Without the specific definition of terrorism that this Chamber of Deputies would agree on, as it should sound, it is also very easily exploitable, because the broad term that has been spoken here, and the quote may have lasted five minutes... It was quite obvious that this quote was so extensive that inventing the abuse of this paragraph on our opponents, who we don't like, would be very simple. We know from the world wonderful examples of abuse of the word terrorism in dealing with political accounts. What one calls a legitimate struggle for national interests, the other calls terrorism. It is up to us how we approach this and which party seems more trustworthy to us. And when the party happens to be out of some international political or other ideals of national freedom, at that point the other party says - well, yeah, you're wrong, they're terrorists, and they need to be applied to all the legal possibilities that the fight against terrorism regulates. Lately, it is Turkey, which has been mentioned here many times and where we may feel that terrorism from the mouth of President Erdogan is perhaps very widely conceived and is now mainly used to suppress the opposition. Opposites in the military, opposition in society, opposition in universities. Do you really believe that half of Turkish higher education has been occupied by terrorists? Those teachers were terrorists? Yet President Erdogan claims this - I am fighting terrorists, I am fighting a terror that wants to reverse Turkey. And according to the law, which would contain this paragraph in such content, he would probably be right. It would be legal procedure. And that is why I warn against such indefining the word terrorism and terrorist in the rule of law in general. The definition of terrorism can also be briefly expressed in sentences that I quite liked and said at the honorable UN forum - now I do not want to say that in the Security Council, as said here by Minister Zaorálek, but in an honourable forum where the definition of terrorism has been dealt with and defined for about 15 years and always according to the approach of individual participants in the debate, this debate is turned to the left or right. They were able to agree on one thing: the difference between a terrorist and a national freedom fighter is the Nobel Peace Prize. Whoever gets this award is not a terrorist. This shortened definition, although related to Jasir Arafat at its time, can be characterised quite cleverly to the design we have here. And the definition is just missing here. And we've got a little bit of a problem. [[17,00 hours]] If I were to use this definition, which is proposed to the appellant in this law, I would venture to say that Mrs Albrightová would also have a problem with bombing Yugoslavia and approving it because it was without the UN's mandate. That's not where the mandate was. This means, unfortunately, it was a terrorist act of a friendly country which, in theory, in the last x years can do everything and with impunity. But perhaps we could also apply the possibility of demanding the punishment of such a terrorist when she comes to our territory, and we could apply it because this law is not limited to acts of terrorism committed in the Czech Republic. He understands this terrorism in general. So there are some criticisms of the specification of this proposal. And in this case, I would agree with the petitioners, and I would very much like to take advantage of this imperfection and send the former Secretary of State to sweatpants, but I don't think I will. The definition of terrorism can also be very close to our borders and it can also be up to date. We can look at Ukraine, so much mentioned here in the resolution and in the accession debates with Ukraine. What is a terrorist to President Porošenko is a hero to the people of Donetsk. Quite relevant, but a factual point of view. This law is absolutely unprepared to address these issues in this matter and definition. And it has already happened to us that Czech citizens are fighting on one side and the other side of this front. They're individuals, but they're there. Now, how would the Czech court deal with this procedure? So far we are discussing this as part of the service in foreign armed forces, because not one group of Čech fighting on both sides fights in regular army, fights in fighters. On one side they are warriors called terrorists from Kiev, when they are warriors fighting on Kiev's side, so they are auxiliary battalions and heroes, of course they always depend very much on the point of view. Yet, from the perspective of this law, both groups would be terrorists. How will this bill cope with this precedent? How would the Czech courts cope with this precedent if it came to judge these warriors? And now I'm not saying who's right and who's fighting on the right side. I dare not look into their heads and their conscience. But even so, such a proposal should count on this eventuality, because the law should be clear, readable and predictable. Unfortunately, this proposal, although written, as they say, is very simple, and someone says that what is simple is right, is not entirely true in real life. The reason message, which I have already said, was in the fire of criticism and government statements on this law. The Government refers to the point I was referring to, that is, Section 362: The proposal to establish a new reason for taking into custody is considered practically redundant and further inconsistent with the principle of legal certainty. - That's the problem I'm heading towards, legal certainty. Every citizen should be aware of the legal certainty arising from a specific paragraph when reading the law. In the concept of terrorism, it is very difficult without a detailed definition. And referring to the international definition of terrorism that we have heard from my previous speaker here is very difficult, because that definition is hugely wide. I would therefore recommend that the petitioners consider these reservations and try to present a proposal that would already reflect these matters. For me, the problem is that the proposal from this point of view is so simple that even the explanatory report on the proposal does not contain an explanation of this issue and these terms, in order to recommend the addition of this law, the amendment in further reading of this law, because the submission, as it is written, cannot be modified very much. However, I understand the efforts of the petitioners to make this proposal. Citizens are calling for a solution. So far, we do not feel the direct effects of terrorism in the Czech Republic, as felt by the citizens of Germany, France, Belgium and other countries with a large Muslim community, into which elements of Islamic terrorism are better infiltrated. The Czech Republic is extremely lucky because of its homogenity, perhaps even because we are a poor country, perhaps even because Czech is a complex language. Yet our citizens feel fear because we are part of a united Europe, we are part of Schengen, and Schengen does not work. Colleagues here rightly and in the long run criticize the European Union's inaction on this situation. Schengen is being demolished, so far no one is coming to us. But where is it said that in the case of tougher sanctions in Germany, in the case of tougher consequences in France, will these anonymous people moving in European territory not seek their way to the Czech Republic? And once again, Schengen is not working, so these people's records are zero. And here comes the question of what solution the Czech rule of law provides for this question, this problem and the fear of citizens. Does this have a solution? This proposal does not address this. That is why the legitimate appeal, which has been raised here many times, is for the Czech Government to take this seriously into account. And perhaps the first in the European Union. What I'm most sorry about is the situation... I just got a glimpse that none of the ministers are here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-011-108.u37	I'll secure their presence. A moment ago, Minister Mládek was sitting here. [[Voices from the O.R.]] In that case, I am interrupting the meeting for five minutes before one of the ministers arrives.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-011-108.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, time for recess is up. The ministers are present, we can continue to discuss the point. Please, Mr. Ambassador, continue your speech.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-011-108.u39	Thank you very much for the floor, and at the same time I apologize to the Minister, I have been warned that he is not here, but I see that he already has reinforcements, so there is probably no interruption due to the absence of the Minister. I will therefore return to the bill tabled by my colleagues. As I have already said here, I consider the indefinability and impasse of the proposal, even if it is based on the Slovak legal order, its greatest mistake. It could simply be that the concept of a terrorist will be abused. And it could be our side to which it is used, historical parallels could be justified. But it could also be the newly created parties of the economic type. Because we know economic terrorism, too. And in that definition of terrorism, as international law knows, this concept exists. So it is to consider whether to implement this impenetrable concept into our legal order and to risk finding someone and not being an individual, it can be a group, even a majority that will try to exploit this concept and apply it to practical questions in this country. And many times there is the term eco-terrorist. Are we going to apply these paragraphs to those green enthusiasts fighting for the weather girl and the whirlpool to build our highways? All of this was neglected by the petitioners in this bill. That is why I have no choice but to propose the rejection of this law. However, I think that the petitioners might try to think and present a version that will reflect more and more on the current world situation and not only to break out of the context of the sentence from the Slovak law, translate it with errors and try to implement it into the Czech rule of law, where in this context they perish and rather create chaos. Nevertheless, I say that they deserve to be grateful for their efforts, but in this case it would be good for them to acknowledge that the proposal is not entirely ideal, and maybe next time they tried to bring the proposal to a legislative end. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-011-108.u40	Thank you, too. Mr Václav Snopek will now appear. With a factual point before that, Mr Černoch is reporting. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-011-108.u41	Thank you for the floor. I couldn't help but react. We presented the proposal some year ago, so maybe even the fact that it's been here for so long means that some points aren't up to date, which is good because our intention wasn't just to put something in the water, but to make a proposal that would solve a big problem that went ahead with the migration crisis, and that is the danger of terrorism. That's why we presented it. We actually presented it about a year and a half ago. At the time, we were told that we were scared and that there was no need. Finally, the government has approached this problem, which we acknowledge. However, I think there are points that would certainly be worth specifying. As my colleague Luzar said, reactions, eco-terrorists, that's actually quite different. These are people who tie themselves to trees to protect nature. But I doubt they'd take a hand grenade or a grenade launcher or a long rifle and threaten the citizens of the Czech Republic. That's where I think it was exaggerated. I don't know if it was intended or if it was meant to be a little ironic, but we really didn't mean those. We were thinking of protecting Czech citizens from terrorism, a problem that unfortunately is currently plagued by Europe and which does not yet seem to be over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-011-108.u42	Thank you. And now duly registered, with the de facto remark of Mr Luzar. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-011-108.u43	I will only allow myself to respond very briefly to the previous speaker, through you, Mr Vice-President. Of course, we all perceive the concept of eco-terrorist in the realities of the Czech basin. But according to the definition of international, the struggle for symbols is also understood by certain means as terrorism. That's the lack of clarity of this term. And for those, and I won't use that expression, environmentalists, if you read hundreds of e-mails that came to us within the Sumava, you'll find the definition of the symbol struggle and the preservation of nature very easily. So theoretically, you could apply this proposal to at least half of these writers. And the next paragraph suggested that they could be closed because they meet the conditions that you have listed there, because they deny each other a little bit, so that the definition could also be used, and at that point we would be deprived of the amount of reading that goes through our mail, unless they fall into spam. So much for clarification.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-011-108.u44	Thank you. And now I see no other factual point, and please, Mr. Ambassador, it's your space.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-011-108.u45	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I think that the debate has shown that this is a huge problem and is causing great interest in a number of Members. Unlike some previous speakers, I have to appreciate the proponents of this law, because at the time they presented it, it was here and there is a great social order. Yes, the government's proposal solved a number of things, but I think that this initiative was absolutely right at the time and does not deserve us to reject it completely. I therefore, at the outset, say that we should also give this bill a chance, and I will make a proposal for a recast, because in this situation or in the Houses of Press 886, which, by the way, applies from now on, are not defined and described all the problems that we can face in the fight against terrorism. I think it is necessary to define clearly what terrorism is. I think we all agree that terrorism is planned, thought-out, politically or religiously motivated violence to achieve selfish goals. We can also describe it in this way that it is the deliberate use of violence or threat by violence usually directed against non-participating persons in order to arouse fear and to turn attention to themselves. Again, the purpose is to achieve political, religious, ideological and perhaps economic goals. But at one point, I have to stop. Discussion has shown that we are trying to mix terrorism and criminal acts. Mr Gabal, through the management and Mr Grospič, has mentioned these things, but the border is always here and should also have different assessments in punishing the crime. I totally understand my colleague Gabal, explain to the dead why this happened, whether there are 9, 10, 20, but a crime when a bus driver deliberately kills someone, throws a bus off a cliff, or it's an accident that happened as a result of fatigue, technical failure, which I think are completely different things. But when we think about these things - I've been looking for a lot of definitions of terrorism, and I've even looked into American sources. There are two very interesting definitions, but it turns out that each state adjusts its definition to the problem that threatens it. And now I'm gonna take a little turn. Yes, a year and a half ago, there was a clear social order that we should fight mainly against Islamic terrorism. That's what I think everyone understood, and even the proponents will certainly confirm that this was the case. Yes, a number of major crimes in Europe, Western Europe, but even in the east, were based on this religious motive, even in the east, it was slowly the larger ones than in Western countries. Indeed, they have fulfilled their meaning and purpose. But we also have to think about such phenomena that are called superterrorism. Friends, this is no game of star wars. We hear about it on TV, in the media. These are acts of terrorism that use nuclear, radiation, chemical, and biological weapons. That there was no attempt to gain and use these weapons, no one can deny it. Let's take the Middle East. Unfortunately, chemical, bacteriological weapons are a reality that is being used today. But we also have unconventional forms of terrorism, such as psychological terror, and we should also remember that. I think they are sometimes even more sneaky and dangerous forms of terrorism. These are forms that include propaganda, forging information, and all of this leads to people's decisions being influenced. Yes, that's terrorism too. We also have information terrorism. This also needs to be taken into account and effectively defended against this form of terrorism. And the most significant branch of terrorism in the use of information technology is cyberterrorism. This has been mentioned very often recently and unfortunately we do not have it in any law. There's an effort to fight him here. The question is, how will we prosecute these things if they go beyond the borders of our state? But if it appears in the territory of our state, then we should know how to deal with this activity. I think we also agree that the objective of terrorism is to create an atmosphere of fear and distrust in the capacity of the security forces of the state and to raise the issue of the innocence of other people. This is basically one of the main forms of terrorism, and, unfortunately, the proposal tabled by a group of Members does not address these matters. But since a number of ways have been named here, a number of forms of terrorism, I think they need to be given a chance to work these things out, and I repeat my proposal to return the bill to recast. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-011-108.u46	Thank you. I'll read the apologies. Today, between 17 and 19 pm, Mr Marek Ženíšek apologizes for reasons of work, from 16.40 to the end of the meeting, Mr Ivan Gabal apologizes, and from 17 pm to the end of the meeting for reasons of work, Mrs Markéta Adamová apologises. I wonder if anyone else would like to speak in the debate. Since I do not see any application, I am ending the general debate. I ask the appellant and the rapporteur if you want to take the final floor. [[Yes.]] First of all, the appellant. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-011-108.u47	Thanks again for the word. I also thank you for the debate that has been very stimulating here in many ways. And I won't forgive myself. You know, it's also quite smiling when you hear from the representatives of the government coalition that this standard, as it is presented, is contrary to EU rules, that it is legislatively wrong, and then the same government essentially makes an almost identical proposal and forces us to approve it. You can hear here that our proposal is redundant, unnecessary, and then the representatives of the Ministry of Justice go around individual Members and are literally begging us to approve their very similar proposal, and that is quickly at first reading, because there is no time. Sorry, like. [[He's laughing.]] But I know you can't admit that the opposition is right. But as they say, get it out of here. But just get to the point. I am glad that there have been a lot of proposals that need to be made to protect us from terrorism. What matters need to be important or more important, and it would be better if we did not need this law at all. I totally agree with that. Come on, let's do it. But I apologize to all the speakers who have suggested it here, but this is somehow unrelated to this bill of ours. I remind you that this is about the criminality of promoting terrorism and facilitating the imposition of ties. And yes, I admit it, there are flaws. They are. But it was also said here when we prepared the law, so it was a year, a year and a half ago and responded to the legislation in force at the time. Well, until then, the government's gonna split up and decide that it's still needed and they're gonna prepare their own in a hurry, which they're gonna partially copy from us, so we just couldn't have guessed that at the time. And we're glad it did. Anyway, even though the mistakes are there. And we admit it, we know about them. Following the change in legislation. It's nothing that can't be fixed as part of a second reading. Or at least, because there are things that even in the existing legislation, the new one, are not mentioned, such as: The ease, the imposition of custody, we think it's the institute that needs it, so at least let us rework it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-011-108.u48	Thank you. The rapporteur will now speak in the final words. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-011-108.u49	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, I see that the O.R. is gradually filling up, so I think you're interested in the subject. Six colleagues spoke in the discussion, and the discussion was very fruitful, including the fact that we made a number of factual remarks. I mentioned House Press 866, or 886, I don't know now. It is a coincidence that today is February 1st and this House press is Law No. 455/2016 Sb., which just today became effective. I would like to reiterate that there was a proposal in the debate to reject this proposal at first reading, as well as a proposal to return the petitioner for revision. Thank you all for the discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-011-108.u50	Thank you, too. The final words were spoken. We shall therefore now proceed to the vote. As the rapporteur said, first of all, we will vote on the motion for rejection, which has been made twice in the general debate. I'll call in my colleagues and colleagues from the lobby. I'm registering a request for your check-out. I'll check you out and ask you to sign up with your cards. And I'm opening the vote, and I'm asking who agrees to reject this motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? It's a vote with order number 304. 120 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 71, against 17. I note that this proposal has been adopted and that the proposal is rejected. I thank you and end the discussion of this point. And I'm handing over the meeting proceedings.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-011-108.u51	Good afternoon. We'll continue the negotiations. I'm opening up a point that's
