ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-014-014.u1	14. Government bill amending Act No. 155/1995 Coll., on Pension Insurance, as amended, and other related laws /house printing 912/ - second reading We are at second reading in an interrupted general debate. With a point of fact, Mrs Markéta Adamová is registered, but she is not present. Then Mr František Laudát is interested in a factual remark. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-014-014.u2	Thank you. My colleague Opálka is logged in. I'll give him priority, and I'll enter into a proper discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-014-014.u3	Thank you. With a point of fact, President Stanjura is registered. The actual application doesn't apply, thank you. We will move on to applications in the general debate. In the general debate on this bill, Mr Miroslav Opálka is registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-014-014.u4	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear members of the government, colleagues, we have cooled down, or another bill has been added here. At least I'll have it shorter because I've already forgotten half of what I wanted to respond to. However, Mr President of the Social Committee and the rapporteur through Mr Managing Committee, I would like to point out that I have been in this House for 15 years and I have been dealing with, among other things, the pension system for 15 years. During the reigns of Špidla, Gross and Paroubek I worked in the first committee of Bezděk and I must say that this committee ended up somewhere in the middle of its journey. Among other things, she also addressed the reminiscent problem of the NDC, which presented social democracy, and I believe that any other commission that should follow up in this area should look at the work system of this commission, and where it came from, because she calculated the proposals that came out of the political slogans of the various political parties, so on exact data is in graphs and tables published and now it was just about going into the second round, which would, on the one hand, clarify ideas on exact data and also create space for communication between the political parties that have something to do and how close to each other. Unfortunately, the second commission, which was created during the time of the Topolánkův governments, the first Nečasův commission, was quite clear, there I was also a member, but there we received only information about what was decided by Minister Nečas with Mr. Chairman of the Tlustý Club, then already Mr. Tlustý, so we did not get far there. During the period of Nečasův' government, it was the second Bezděkův commission, which was actually created for individual banking institutions, and we were not invited there. And in this parliamentary term, at the time of Sobotkův's government, I was a member, or maybe I'm still a member, Potůčkův's commission. Unlike the previous ones, she didn't need those politicians in her midst, which she academically managed to do on her own. But in any case, when a person immerses himself into it, it is more humble to the data and far less difficult to pronounce some simple judgments and passwords, because it is on exact data that they see individual contexts and complexity. The complexity is also needed when it calls for justice. Otherwise, a low-income citizen who, of course, needs solidarity and an otherwise high-income citizen who doesn't want to be more solidarity-free and wants more equivalence. And if you look at the justice from another point of view, what's the justice between 12,000, 100 thousand, 200 thousand, 250, 500 or more thousand? Is that so many times the responsibility, the performance, the merit, the greater? Well, from these calculation bases, the fair or unfair pensions that need to be compared to the social system, or solidarity, or certain ceilings, will then be counted. So it's gonna be hard to find what's and what's not fair here. In my experience, I must say that if she stands in the new term - and I will not be here anymore because I am not running - another pension committee, I would recommend that she not talk about parameters, but first try to find consensus on social objectives. And when you agree on a goal that would be willing to respect any relevant political force in the House, then we can search for parameters to achieve it. [[18.20 hours]] So far it has always been the other way around, it was the parameters that, of course, either tried to improve the system or to destitute it. Let me give you an example. A small pension reform was mentioned here. What did she bring us? So what she brought us on the revenue side. On the revenue side, it brought us a slump because of the introduction of levy ceilings and the exemption of low wages, non-cooling jobs and other incomes, and we increased the income in the pension account in addition to the crisis impacts, thanks to these parameters and raised the deficit. What did she bring to the insured? When you're still having fun today, because those changed parameters that were supposed to adjust the extension of the time for people to stay longer in the system, but less from the system, a number of people will find that because they count only 50 percent of the time of study, long-term illness, disability pension or registration at the employment office, they will find that they do not have completed the number of years of insurance and that even within the statutory age limit they must continue. So these are the effects of the little pension reform. I'm not talking about the big, second pillar. And now to the criticized current pension commission of Professor Potůček. You know, when you look at the programming statement and the status of this commission, the government's programming statement, it only talks about six objectives to change the pension system. There you will not read anything about pension reform. And I understand that because this coalition is incoherent, it was able to agree that these six parameters will be solved and solved, and the whole in that lineup, what it is, it's probably difficult to fulfill. So the first goal was to set a fixed retirement age, this is the current House press 912, which we received and for which we are discussing. I have to say, the committee didn't even agree on the form we were given. That's government business. The second objective, the setting of a more dignified valuation formula, has already been discussed twice here, and the third time it is in the amendment and has triggered the main debate that is going on here. So not so much the substance of the press as the one change that hasn't actually been voted yet. The third goal was to end pension savings, I don't know why twice, almost three times, and after a long time it was fulfilled. Fourth objective, strengthening the principle of merit without negative effects on pension poverty. Well, that's a contradiction, he's already stressed it there, Chairman Kalousek. Either one or the other. It is difficult to look for an increase in merit and a reduction in the impact on poverty, but let us, of course, be able to find ways through other sources. The fifth objective, the proposal for a parametric change for the attractive third pension pillar through state support to motivate long-term savings on old age. I think there has been a lot of progress here, because Mr Zavadil's amendment has been approved, but, as you have heard, Mr Grospič, the number of people in the third pillar has dropped by more than half a million, but if you look at the state's spending, the expenditure has increased. So actually, because up to 300 kroner, which was most of the low-income ones, the state doesn't give anybody anything anymore, so, of course, they're getting out of that system if they don't have the power to raise. Those who are retired and are not able to upgrade the system are leaving because it also allows - you can be a pensioner and still receive state social support again. Well, of course, there's more income left. And anyway, since this year, by having an increased possibility of deduction from the tax base, or tax reduction, why wouldn't they take advantage of it? But, of course, the state applies more to fewer people, so it is particularly beneficial for those amounts of income groups. And then we have the sixth task left, a proposal for a fair change of transfer between citizens, families and the state. This is a revolutionary goal, because it goes far beyond the boundaries of the pension system which I do not consider to be social, it is still an insurance system, although quasi-, but this objective requires cross-cutting both the budgetary sphere and the state social support and the material need and assistance to families. This is simply not a task just for some parametric change in the pension system and there are great considerations of linking quite so complex that in these political conditions impassable. All I wanted to say was that when we were talking about whether or not the role of pension reform was fulfilled, that the goal was not really set, and of the majority of the goals four were met, one half and one not. But the House made decisions based on what the government had presented to it or what the MPs had presented to it. It often did not coincide with what was largely approved on this committee. For example, it did not discuss the issue of reducing the parameter for entitlement to survivor's pension or those mining pensions for deep-sea, etc. So I am still signed up for a detailed debate, there I will try to justify one of my amendments to the law, or the bill that we are discussing. But I would like to say that experts warn against using fear to manipulate people. You know, the guarantee of the state will be what the guarantee, the political leadership, and how, according to its electoral programs, it will secure this pension system in decades to come. Simple comparison. We are constantly talking about whether we have a high or low percentage of social security contributions from low wages. The accumulation of labour costs in the OECD puts us in a lower position than we do. If we raise salaries and reduce social security, it's pension insurance, but then we get into trouble that we don't get 40 percent of the average wage and average pension ratio, because our wages are going to grow, but our contributions are going down. And if two insured people today pay 20 per cent per pension, which on average looks 40 per cent for the pensioner, it will, of course, end. So, of course, the journey is - we have to deal with a system of substitute periods that no one pays for, which is big and which is now coming from the state budget. I think that this is an objective situation that is not abnormal and that is common in other countries as well. So we shouldn't scare people that we can't do it. The second thing is that the newly created value is constantly growing, but the newly created value is becoming less and less distributed for those people who have also earned that the value of the owner of the company is growing. So that's the debate of the richest people in the world, about the justice that we should think about, that the resources are needed right there, in the far fairer distribution of the newly created value, which is not the 100% credit of the owner. Thank you for your attention, I will continue to speak to my proposal in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-014-014.u5	Thank you. Mr. Chairman Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-014-014.u6	Thank you for the floor. I think Mr Opálka has shown that he understands and describes the problems, I would say fairly objectively, at least the problems that exist. However, I would like to respond to the complete conclusion of his performance. And that's where we come into conflict with two principles. The two words that go against each other are justice and redistribution. And when you think about it, they're really going against each other. Because we forget the word merit. And that's not the same as justice. You have to say that's a different concept. I think the debate about the future setting-up and functioning of the pension system is and must take into account all these three words. Justice, merit, I'd say solidarity. Redistributing is also a tool for solidarity. In itself, the redistribution is not fair at all. But if it is in the name or in the spirit of solidarity, it is a thing that many understand, which many support, even those from whose pie is actually redistributed. I don't want to talk right now, like you said, the richest people in the world, I don't want to talk about them. They'll figure it out, and they've got room to make nice gestures and say, I'm giving up 50 percent. I want to talk about those active people who work their whole lives, whether alone or as entrepreneurs, businessmen, or as high-quality employees who lead them into the system. And for many of them, retirement is really the impact of living standards. I'm talking about middle class, I'm not talking about the richest. They don't have a problem, they won't even notice if they're retired or not. And here, when we put the concept in front of us that we're all going to apply to, that's the justice, so we have to ask, is this system fair? For those of middle class, that means they had above average incomes, but not high ones. And often the above-average income was due to above-average deployment. They could have been employees, to do business. Or some have several jobs, several jobs, and thus provide income for their family and pay honestly. And for them, the current system, in my opinion, is not fair. That was also the small pension reform that did little about it. But I don't think it's enough. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] So I think we need to work with all these concepts. We can't say what's fair. That they'll all take the same? Well, that's not fair if everyone's been taking it into the system differently. What's fair about that? At the same time, however, we need to speak and maybe use the word dignity. So that even those who did little and were not responsible, and such are many, not that they did little, because they didn't want to work or anything, but they just didn't have so much luck, they didn't have so many opportunities, maybe they had some disability, so they should have a logically dignified pension. That's a fair principle. But is it at the expense of those who have been taking years and years into that system of above-average social security if we keep the name? I don't think so. So I don't think we can have it in absolute terms, we can redistribute everything, or justice. That does not mean justice, merit, solidarity, and the instrument is some redistribution. And let's argue about these parameters, we all see it a little differently. I think Mr Opálka, he said here that whoever's serious about it is considering and analyzing the data, he will find that this is not a black and white problem that can't be dealt with by this electoral slogan, an attractive offer: we promise you higher pensions. That's pretty simple. Who? And who's gonna pay for that? [[A note from the diaper.]] You will promise what your chairman will say, won't you? At least we're debating it, that's a little different. But since you're bothering me like this. Well, I understand it's not your fault. You promise what your chairman promises. But we are seriously debating this with each other, and this debate is not entirely simple. That is why I mind, among other things, this as if a big change in the amendment without any more detailed debate, without taking on the economic one. [[unintelligible]] And I'd have to do that again. I just wanted to call on us to take all these concepts seriously, so that we know that if one of these principles were to prevail and the others were to be forgotten, it would be essentially unfair, dysfunctional and unstable. Let us look together - we will not find it in this parliamentary term, I think it is quite clear. It's for the new House and the new government to really try to figure it out, debate and find a match. I believe - if the new Madam Secretary, Madam Secretary, I don't know, I really don't know. And if it were, I'd expect a much more active approach. More active in presenting proposals, variants, analyses, mathematical models, demographic curves and so on. Not here, when it's before the election, as my honored colleague Roman Sklenák says: it's for citizens, it's not populism. But it's a proposal without discussion, without any hunches of impact. Not this year or next year, but long-term effects. And don't let President Sklenák be mad at me, which I really did not find in that explanation of the amendment. Am I wrong? Did I read it wrong? Read the amendment and answer yourself whether it is relevant and crediblely justified or not. The answer is very simple: it is not.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-014-014.u7	Thank you. With Mrs Chalánková's factual remark, then Mr Opálka. Please, madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-014-014.u8	Thank you for the floor. Let me respond to Mr Opálka's words, which I very much appreciate, and I know that he very much understands this issue. 'Cause he said there was a ceiling on the contributions with the little pension reform. Yes, and that's exactly why the Constitutional Court decided that we should do something about the pension system, because it really suppressed the very merit. And that was the reason why there was a recount at all, a reduction in contributions and a recalculation of pensions, which were higher than 10,000 in a certain way, to at least somehow take account of merit. So both principles, both solidarity and merit, really need to be taken into account. In the second pillar, the merit was already taken into account more and there was also the possibility of a fairer calculation of pensions for businessmen. Let us not forget that the contributions will not actually solve it there, but it can only be solved by another system of own pension calculation for businessmen.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-014-014.u9	Thank you, ma'am. With a factual remark, Mr Opálka. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-014-014.u10	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. No, I don't want to go into controversy, I just want to say that here you see the complexity of how to even agree on the common social objective. Because the interests we defend for our constituents are different and difficult to retreat many times. And the merit. Is it so much more credit to someone who has a half-million-dollar income against the one who has a twelve-million-dollar income? And otherwise, everyone will look at it with different eyes. If the merit wage in the Czech Republic is so low because we are such miserable workers compared to the world? How is it that when the workforce is suddenly missing, the supermarkets are willing to raise wages? So sharing the profits more with the employee. So even the merit is no fixed matter, it is always an agreement of some partners, which, where there are unions, so employees have more weight, greater representation and actually the merit of negotiating as if they negotiated more. So they're all more or less political, variable categories and changing over time. Well, I would never take them for absolutes. And I'm not questioning the debate at all, because, as I say, we all defend our constituents.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-014-014.u11	President Stanjura, his point of order. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-014-014.u12	So we're in 2017, and I've heard this 19th-century sentence. At least that's how I was taught in deep totalitarianism that it was a union that negotiated conditions in the 19th century in those factories, and maybe that's true. But I'd like to see some serious statistics, and I don't know them. Whether or not there are higher salaries in those unions than in the other companies. I'm from the IT area. That's not where the unions work. No need. There are highly above-average salaries. I'm not saying they're not there, but there would be high-average salaries without the union. And I don't know how many percent of programmers, IT specialists, network managers are organized in unions. So I would like us not to say on such a flat-rate basis that trade unions are making higher salaries. And when my colleague Opálka said half a million income, I don't know if he was talking about a year or a month. But I was talking about middle class, Mr. Vice President, and the middle class doesn't take half a million a month, it takes half a million a year. So we have to figure out what period, or we're going to miss the debates and the arguments. And I said I'm not talking about the richest. Whoever has 500,000 a month is one of the richest. No pension reform burns him today, not in a year, not in 30 years. He doesn't have a problem with that. I was talking about a middle class that works, works hard, takes away social, health as high as it is. And then when he retires, in my opinion, he doesn't have a fairly high pension. He doesn't.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-014-014.u13	With the factual remark of Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová. Please, madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-014-014.u14	Thank you for the floor. The debate on this point has really been nutritious and long, and I am sorry that we have raised a question here, even in the light of factual remarks, when you will present your reform, we have raised other questions here, and practically - now they are not listening to me - but practically neither the petitioner, Madam Secretary, nor the rapporteur, as representatives of the strongest coalition party, have answered us. We have not learned much more from coalition parties either. While my colleague here gestures that he may not have much to do with it, but there aren't many of them represented here, they are very thin for how serious the subject is, certainly very important for all of us. And to me, this feels like the basis for real... Those points must be discussed, it is obvious that there are many very relevant arguments, even from the Communist side, that are actually being heard here. Because it is clear through Mr Opálka that he is really engaged in this issue over the long term. So we see that there is really an effort by the opposition both from the right side and from the left side to address this issue. But I really don't see this effort from the government coalition.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-014-014.u15	Thank you. Properly registered with the priority right, President Laudát. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-014-014.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, since memory is very short, sometimes some Members of some coalition parties seem to be adding up for literally tens of months, I would return to what Bartošek called for and what Bartošek said about the stability and instability of the system. It seems very strange to me, because it was this coalition, where some did not know, and I will prove what, for example, the second pillar of pensions is about, so they voted to abolish it. I'd just, uh, wish he was here, but I'll remind him that during the election debate at Congress Center, Mr. Babiš has radically declared that he will cancel, he will promote the abolition of the second pillar. But then he proved that he didn't know what the second pillar was. Then, in time, someone told him what it was about, so he turned around again. However, it seems that under pressure in negotiating the coalition agreement he has retreated and the second pillar you have abolished. As far as the deal is concerned, I think my colleague Opálka here was talking about it, and the term Bezděkův's commission fell. The problem is that the interests of the citizens of this country, some stabilization of the future, some parties are not interested. I have been chairman of the Board of Pension Reform ever since 2007, and I have to say that the exits from the Bezděkův Commission, as social democracy applied to them soon, and I have to say to the fair that the only person who said he didn't want to form any second pillar, or another pillar of pensions, and he wants an ongoing system, only somehow parametrically or otherwise perfected it, to secure higher income into it, probably by raising taxes, was just saying it from the very beginning, and the Communists keep saying it. Social democracy doesn't. And all of a sudden, they turned the deal around, and it was wrong. They went to what the Communist Party defended. And that also came to an end by disturbing you. There's a time when it's getting shorter, now it's been an era of interference for you. But as in many other areas, you have no longer thought about the quality of it, you said wrong, you would replace it with a different quality. You didn't replace her with anything. And that's one of the things you're very, very good at. I think that just an inconsiderate politician and a ruthless new director will begin by reproaching, disturbing, destroying what his predecessor did. The decent and reasonable one looks first, learns, asks questions, then maybe he'll find a better solution. And if he has a better solution, then he'll cancel. You're interrupting, and you're not offering an alternative. If you think today - and I'm telling all of you here that we're in the clear, that actually the deficit that started jumping into that imaginary retirement account has gone down for the first time, I think in 2008, my colleague Kalousek would probably fix me or supplement me, or 2009. Because of the huge economic crisis, the related increase in unemployment, thus the unemployed do not contribute, they do not pay social security, they pay for it, so it is clear that the deficit is growing. And today, you've put the macroeconomic economy and the entire pension system in a very dangerous position that you've recruited 32,000 civil servants, which is also a great gift. That if the economy cools down, there can be a very trivial situation. Then it goes very fast. And you should build a secure, resilient society, you're moving society into a very unstable state. It's working today. I don't know how much of the last deficit in my pension account is, 13 billion here calls me colleague Jarda. [[It's jammed.]] He used to be up to 50, I think, at the top. But I'm warning you, because I was here at a time when the crisis was really happening. Of course, as part of the calming process, we said: It doesn't have to be so bad when a mortgage bubble burst in the United States, it doesn't come here. Europe was making sure. But it came in three weeks. And then literally, the economy fell very dramatically every week. And I'm warning you. You guys have been working here, and you're doing this election policy to collect dividends over the past few years. Maybe it's the excessive investigation, you've proven that it pays to give out in the short term, the voters will probably appreciate you for it in the next election, that's a fact. But they can also appreciate you with the slaps when the economy cools down and suddenly it won't be retired or the debt of the state goes up dramatically. And no matter how much money you make and give away, you can't take it back. People already think of it legitimately as an automatic claim. And I think if there's nothing else, you've set up a committee. The conceptual, global proposal for this committee's solution is zero. It's some sort of summary, an exchange of ideas that - I must say, I listened to President Potůček, some ideas I would take, but they're still just pieces of what's missing in the whole concept of a sustainable system. The situation in the future is all the worse because different Babiš and Sobotk obviously don't know how the modern economy works, so even though you might be playing it down, they did face-to-face with this country. Instead of putting pressure on innovation, and maybe I could add a fellow President Bělobrádek, instead of pressure on innovation, you're throwing the small and medium-sized business away. [[18.50 hours]] I'm really enjoying the middle-class discussion here. We've been drawing attention to this for a long time now that you're destroying the middle class here. I have now noticed the discussions in relation to the fact that the economic expert of Prime Minister Sobotka came up with progressive taxation, so actually the by-product of the discussion was whether or not it was an attack on the middle class. I've read very comical expressions called. economists' experts on what is and what is not middle class. Only a fool can think that the middle class is defined by finance. It's one of many criteria. The criterion may be substantial, but only one of them. The middle class are teachers. They may not even reach the bottom line where the parameter of members for one individual middle class member begins, 30 thousand. CZK monthly salary or salary. And those criteria are education, the ability to stand on your own feet, to take care of your children, to build some succession, to manage property responsibly. Underestimating, grossly underestimating, financial evaluation miserable and awkward e.g. People in the field of culture are middle class, even if they have crippled salaries. The elites that know our history work for 18,000. That's rude. And if someone was to be added to and forgotten for economic growth, they are now added, but very little for the situation, they are the people of culture. And the middle class can't be defined, and it's not the 500 thousand, so maybe it's the bottom line of income again. But I'm saying, income isn't the only group. Why did you do it face-to-face? If a multi-critical assessment is taken of who is and who is not the middle class, then compared to neighbouring countries or regions where we were completely comparable before World War II, we may even have been better, so it is neighbouring Bavaria, it is Austria and it is northern Italy. Today, about 40 per cent of our population is objectively opposed to these countries, while in these countries and regions, which are stable, crisis-resistant, there are 80 per cent according to the same assessment criteria. So we're at half the value. And now that we're talking about why our citizens aren't getting high salaries, it's because there really isn't a greater share of the work with higher added value. I was very bitterly smiling - and the hat down before the previous political representation of the city of Brno, which rejected the construction of Amazon's warehouse on the Černovic terraces of Sobotka, Babiš, Mládka and others. Now the one part ended up here west of Prague. Because this is exactly the kind of company that adds value with social potential that would bring us closer to developed countries or regions like Bavaria or all of Germany or Benelux, the Scandinavian countries will never bring us closer. Therefore, please, you have done nothing to further support the pressure on innovation. Even with economic growth, you have invested in it, and you have invested less than the previous government in a time of deep economic crisis. So you should be ashamed. You're here to ordain a very sad future for the current generation, even if it doesn't seem that way at this point. I don't know if this point ends. I would like to allow Mr Opálka to speak in a detailed debate and to read the amendment. However, I would urge you very much for who will be here in the next parliamentary term to depoliticize the issue of pensions so that really responsible experts present a model and politicians take it without incompetence and stupid interference. Since you have not been able to do anything about pensions in this period and you cannot, this should be the main message, as well as the main message for the next series of disciplines, whether it concerns taxes, whether it concerns the development of modern infrastructure - we will discuss it here tomorrow morning - whether it concerns science, research and innovation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-014-014.u17	I thank Mr Laudát. This has been the last one entered into the general debate so far. If no one reports, I will end the general debate. I'm asking for final words. Not interested. We will proceed to the debate in detail. Mr. Miroslav Opálka will be the first to speak. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-014-014.u18	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Allow me to sign up for my amendment, which is in the system under number 5958. I will not give a long reason, because time is running out, nor will I comment on stratification or class theory. I would just like to say that the detailed reasoning is part of this amendment. It is essential for our club to vote on this law because it also brings a revision from other perspectives as regards the parameter for increasing the next retirement age. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-014-014.u19	I thank Mr Opálek. I ask who else is reporting for a detailed debate. Mr. Chairman Sklenák. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-014-014.u20	Thank you for the floor. I hereby refer to the amendment which is being held in the system under number 5956 and which I presented in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-014-014.u21	Thank you, Mr Sklenák. If no one else reports, I will conclude a detailed debate. I'm asking for final words. There's no interest in final words. I don't see any bill of return or anything else we can vote on. I therefore end second reading of this bill. Since it's 18.58, I don't think it's worth opening another point. So I will read a note - Mrs Matušovská apologized today from 18.15 to the end of the day. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. I am interrupting the House of Deputies meeting until 9 a.m. tomorrow morning, when we will begin with paragraph 293. Answer to written interpelations. Have a good night.
