ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-004-340.u1	340. Information of the Prime Minister on measures against misuse of reinsurance orders by the Financial Administration I ask that Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka take the floor. I'm going to ask you all to remain calm in the hall. If you have something to discuss, you have an opening. Let me ask you one more time, Prime Minister, before my colleagues calm down. [[The President is ringing.]] This includes, where appropriate, the speaking ministers. Please, you have the floor, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-004-340.u2	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I have been asked in the past days to submit a report to the Chamber of Deputies on the use of the so-called 'Deputy House'. a warranty order. I have granted this request. Yesterday, before the beginning of the meeting, the Chamber of Deputies received, as I was informed, electronically, all members and members of the Chamber of Deputies, information from the Prime Minister on the alleged overuse of the legal institute of the freezing order Financial administration of the Czech Republic. In my opening speech, I would like to refer to this report, which I provided yesterday in writing to Members and Members, and allow me to sum up at least briefly the main points contained in this report. One. As such, the freezing orders are an instrument used by the Financial Administration in justified cases to achieve greater efficiency in tax collection. The case is justified where there is a reasonable suspicion on the Financial Administration's part that a particular tax entity has not paid the taxes it has. In such a case The Financial Administration shall issue a freezing order requiring a specific tax entity to lodge early the financial amount of the assumed tax and also determine how much it should be. The state is thus fighting against the grey economy, tax fraud, the robberies of taxpayers. Each freezing order is preceded by a justification, which should exclude the possibility that it would be applied across borders. Each order must comply with applicable laws. The exact text of the relevant paragraphs can be found in the written report. If the Financial Administration has doubts and uses the freezing order unlawfully, the Supreme Administrative Court may decide to revoke them. In the last four years, the Supreme Administrative Court has agreed to this in a total of seven cases according to my information. Two. It is true that over the last five years hedge orders have been issued more frequently, especially in 2014, 2015 and 2016. Detailed numbers are listed again in the written report. I would like to draw attention to the fact that already in 2013, i.e. prior to the start of the mandate of this government, decisions on reinsurance orders were issued for an amount of almost 6.2 billion. Crowns. So in 2013, it was 6.2 billion. Crowns. In 2014, it was 3.8 billion. CZK 3.6 billion in 2015 CZK and 3.3 billion in 2016. Crowns. Only to compare those numbers with an increase in hedging orders: 467 decisions were issued in 2013 in this case, in 2014 867, in 2015 1 605 and in 2016 1 561. This means that between 2013 there was roughly a doubling of the guaranteed orders issued, and between 2014 and 2015, there was also roughly a doubling of the issuing of the hedging orders. The level between 2015 and 2016 doesn't show this dynamic anymore. The number of hedging orders in 2016 was slightly lower than in 2015. I agree unambiguously with the fact that hedging orders are to be used in extreme cases, because in some cases companies can get into major complications. Three. Given that this is a relatively strong instrument, there should be no doubt about the professionalism and objectivity of the Financial Administration in its use. I have therefore requested the opinion of the Minister of Finance on this matter. This opinion, which I received, shows that the Financial Administration prepared, among other things, a methodological instruction to organise the issuing of hedging orders in July 2015. In addition, expert supervision of their implementation was established. In 2015, a working group was also set up to serve as a platform for the rapid exchange of information, which also evaluates the available case-law for hedging orders. In his opinion, the Minister of Finance assured me that the Financial Administration assessed the effects of the freezing orders issued on individual tax entities and that it did not underestimate the potential risks and impacts of the use of the instrument on business activities and overlaps with the personal circumstances of the tax debtors. I would like to call on honourable Members to distinguish between when the State fulfils its obligations towards citizens and takes care of the collection of taxes properly, and when there is a breach of the rules and the use of freezing orders as a preventive measure without sufficient justification. The second case would be considered unacceptable by the financial authorities if such a procedure were to take place. As I have announced, honourable Members, in my written report, I would like to ask the Minister for a detailed assessment of how the detention order is being used today, what is the reason for the increase in orders issued between 2013 and 2015, because, after all, this may point to negative phenomena in our economy. I will also want the Financial Administration to review its procedure for the application of the freezing order, especially where the Supreme Administrative Court has decided to abolish them, for which it has undoubtedly found material reasons. I would like to assure the Chamber of Deputies at the end of my opening speech that the government's aim is an effective state that the government's aim is proper tax collection. It is certainly not the government's aim to over-enforce entrepreneurs or even toss them with sticks by disproportionately often applying institutes for which there is no proper justification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-004-340.u3	Thank you, Prime Minister. And I will now ask that the appellant take the floor on this point, which is Mr Martin Plíšek, who will also be the rapporteur after his speech. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-004-340.u4	Mr Vice-President, Prime Minister, dear colleagues, I would like to begin by thanking you for placing a point concerning the freezing orders, and for having a debate on this on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, which exercises control over the government, with regard to executive power. Under the pretext of combating tax frauders by the authorities Financial administrations are increasingly and to a large extent destroying completely innocent entrepreneurs. They're using the institute to do it. the freezing order and its immediate enforcement, to serve only in really extreme cases as the last means not to deprive the State of tax payments. The point is that if the Financial Administration has a reasonable assumption that a specific tax entity will be liable in the future to pay a tax of a certain amount, and if it is at the same time of reasonable concern that the tax will not be paid, it is entitled to confiscate its assets. In recent years and in recent years, however, the Czech Financial Administration, under the political leadership of the Minister of Finance, Andrej Babiš this instrument to combat fraudsters with its arbitrary actions into a means of effectively destroying innocent citizens and entrepreneurs. [[11.50 hours]] In the legal state, however, it should be absolutely obvious that the application of such a strong and extraordinary measure must be carefully considered and applied only if it is clear that it is indeed against fraud, and there will be compelling reasons for its use. The effects of the freezing order are liquidation for the company and the entrepreneurs concerned are forced to cease all their business and economic activities due to the seizure of their assets. The increase in the number of uses of hedging orders alone indicates that the Financial Administration is resorting to it on a flat-rate basis. However, this procedure is illegal, which is repeatedly stated by the Supreme Administrative Court, which abolishs illegal, therefore unjustified, reinsurance orders. However, judicial decisions are late and cannot undo the damage done irreversibly by the will of the Financial Administration. Despite this, the Financial Administration refuses to revise its procedures, the Supreme Administrative Court's decisions mean nothing to it and insists on further unwarranted use of the freezing orders. The explanation of this procedure from the Managing Director of the Financial Administration, Mr Janeček, who defends this system by saying that every company can be abused in tax fraud. That gives us the Director-General of Financial Administration, among other things. He says that any firm in the Czech Republic can be affected at any time by issuing a freezing order to seize its property, which is equal to the death penalty without any trial. The TOP 09 therefore addressed the Prime Minister by letter of its President to prevent the abuse of the Institute of Guarantee Order by the Financial Administration of the Czech Republic as the highest representative of executive power. We also want this matter to be dealt with at this meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. When I spoke here in my opening remarks on the findings and decisions of the Supreme Administrative Court, and I would like to refer you, my dear fellow Members, to the public caselaw of the Supreme Administrative Court, then I would like to quote here the reasoning of one case which was dealt with by the Supreme Administrative Court, when the company proposed to issue a preliminary measure requiring the court to order tax administrators to refrain from taking action and actions leading to the sale of its immovable property. It is not only about securing the property, it is about the fact that the hedge institute or the hedge order allows that the property of the entrepreneur is subsequently sold in the public auction, which, of course, has a liquidation effect for it. And the Supreme Administrative Court in this particular reasoning - I'm not going to address a specific example here to name a company, but I say it's on the Internet - clearly states what the hedge institute should look like and how it should be applied. I will now allow you to briefly review this decision of the Supreme Administrative Court. The company justified the requirement to issue a preliminary measure by continuing, in the light of the procedure of the tax administrator in the context of the tax enforcement procedure, to adjust the proportion of the parties until the final decision of the judicial authorities in the case, since, despite the decision of the competent court which has already annulled the decision of the Financial Administration, the tax administrator continues to take steps to threaten the company which, in the present case, is seriously injured, in the form of factual economic liquidation by the detention institutes blocking the management of the assets and dramatically changing the applicant's normal business. In particular, the applicant submits that the freezing orders on the basis of which the tax execution against its real estate is carried out are subject to review in the present case. On the basis of the securing orders of the tax administrator, it affected all of its real estate, blocked all its accounts and intended to monetize and execute goods and other movable items, and thus paralyzed its business. So in this particular case - and this case is not the only one - we really see the liquidation consequences of the freezing order. Thus, the applicant is not in fact capable of operating as a business entity and has fallen into a loss from the previous profit. The whole situation is the consequence of the hedging orders issued and the subsequent tax executions. Furthermore, I add that the applicant also concludes that, should its immovable property be sold, it could not, even in the event of its success in individual proceedings, restore its economic activity, since there would be no place or place to renew it. In such a case, the possibility of seeking compensation is insufficient, because even its admission could not reverse the loss of the possibility of continuing its business and economic activity. According to the applicant, it is clear from the procedure of the tax administrator that there is an imminent risk that the tax administrator will take steps towards the sale of its immovable property and that the sale could take place before the final decision of the court on the legality of the actual amount of the tax. There is also a statement from the Financial Administration, which states that blocking property and the actual ability to do business as a result of the issuing of the freezing order and its enforcement is a regular consequence of the aforementioned legal institutes available to the tax administrator. That means, here's the reason that it says that it really does. The Financial Administration admits that the consequences are such and that the move that is related to the seizure of all assets and the subsequent cashing of those values of the company is essentially in order and that it is essentially done in accordance with the law. But what I would like to stress here is that this is an exceptional institute, where it is no longer possible to meet the tax obligation, not that this hedge order will automatically be introduced. Now, in this case, this is a specific situation in the field of tax law. This is characterised by the existence of a freezing order as - and I stress again - an extremely forceful instrument of the tax administrator for immediate pre-pre-emptive collateral and the subsequent execution of assets by the tax administration. The issuing and execution of a freezing order may, within an exceptionally short period of time, paralyze and irreversibly destroy a business entity that is still functioning. The freezing orders and subsequent executions of the tax administrator are issued by the tax administrator himself and not authorised or continuously controlled by the court. Their judicial control is a follow-up. - I am still quoting from the reasons for the decision of the Supreme Administrative Court in one particular case. But I would point out that there are more cases where the Supreme Administrative Court has ruled that way, and I would even indicate that these cases are very similar to that of a copycat. [[12.00 hours]] As already mentioned above, the impact and imprudentness of the freezing order and its successors and, in practice, the tax administrator of the related enforcement measures requires that, as far as possible throughout the entire period of the proceedings before the administrative courts, the substance of the dispute, namely the existence, legal grounds and scope of the secured tax liability, the tax entity has a reasonable chance of maintaining its economic existence. That principle, i.e. as far as possible to maintain the existence of a tax entity for the duration of proceedings before administrative courts, should be applied consistently in cases where the nature of the matter of the dispute over its own substantive tax obligation is apparent that it is, in any case, factually or legally questionable and to some extent unclear. In other words, in the case of a dispute as to the law and the facts relating thereto, the tax entity should, as far as possible, be allowed to conduct and bring to an end the dispute, whatever the outcome of the dispute, that is to say, without the liquidation consequences by applying a non-refundable freezing order. The freezing order, also stating the reasons for this decision by the Supreme Administrative Court, states that the true purpose and purpose of its existence is exclusively or predominantly fraudulent conduct, for example in the form of VAT fraud. And it must also be seen that it is not clear from the circumstances of matters seen in the course of its proceedings before administrative courts that the sole or major purpose and purpose of its existence is fraudulent conduct. It is necessary to give priority to the maintenance of the existence of a tax entity during the period of proceedings before administrative courts. In this particular case, the Supreme Administrative Court concluded that the activities and economic activities of this business entity are not fraudulently founded and are not directed towards fraudulent conduct, so in this case the use of the freezing order should not be admissible under the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union and should not be resorted to by the Financial Administration. Neither the complainant's claim nor the actual prima facie information contained in the administrative or judicial file indicates that the applicant was pretended to be involved in tax fraud and, less so, that the sole or major purpose and purpose of its existence is fraudulent conduct. Ladies and gentlemen, of course I could... The decision of the Supreme Administrative Court is rather extensive, the reasoning is very precise. To sum up, the Supreme Administrative Court makes it clear that this is an exceptional means for the Financial Administration to resort to in serious situations, in irreversible situations, in cases where there is a risk that the tax liability will not be met and where there is clear evidence that the company has either committed fraud or has been fraudulently created. So the Supreme Administrative Court here has set clear boundaries for the Financial Administration. It is very sad that even after the Supreme Administrative Court has issued these decisions, the Financial Administration continues to ignore them, and in some of these cases it repeatedly resorts to issuing hedging orders and thus occurs ping-pong between the company concerned, the Financial Administration and the courts. That is what I think is a condition that should not be in a legal democratic state, and that is why my call is also here to the Prime Minister to be the supreme representative of executive power, because Financial administration belongs to executive power, it is part of executive power, so I think that we as the legislature should ensure that executive power complies with the laws, abides by judicial judgments, and in this case the resolution of the Supreme Administrative Court. Therefore, after a detailed debate is opened, I will report to it and propose an appropriate resolution by the Chamber of Deputies, in which I will propose that the Chamber of Deputies call on the Prime Minister to take such measures as to ensure that the Financial Administration follows the decision of the Supreme Administrative Court and does not abuse the detention order. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-004-340.u5	I thank the representatives of the appellants, Mr Martin Plíšek. I am opening a debate in which it is Mr Plíšek who is the first to sign up. Does he insist? I'd rather not. In that case, I will take this as your opening speech and debate, and I can give the floor to Mr Václav Votav, then Mrs Lorencová, and then Mr Pilný will be in a proper application. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-004-340.u6	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I am sorry, I do not wish, of course, to deny time to my colleagues, so only within my factual point. I would like to say that this is a really serious issue and that it needs to be addressed by the Committee on Budgets, so I intend to put this issue to the budgetary committee on a possible date. Of course, the Director-General of the Financial Administration, Mr Janeček, should also comment on it. I miss Minister Babiš here. It is, of course, aimed at answering here, or for the Prime Minister to present the information. However, I would very much like the Minister of Finance, who is responsible for the Financial Administration, to be involved in this, of course, in his own way. And I would also like to consider whether it would be appropriate for us to interrupt this meeting today precisely for the involvement of the Minister of Finance and perhaps even after the Committee on Budgets to complete it here in plenary. It's a really serious matter, really, the use of hedging orders becomes a routine matter. And unfortunately, what is really the purpose of the law and the provisions of the law, tax regulations, is somehow being passed to really be used in exceptional, justified cases. Unfortunately, even the increase in cases where the warranty is used is evidence of something. Of course, taxes must be collected. The taxpayer is obliged to pay taxes. The tax administration is obliged to collect taxes from taxpayers. Of course, no one is questioning that. But, of course, it must also be within limits.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-004-340.u7	Mr President, time has passed for a point of fact. [[Member of Votava: I'm sorry.]] But let me ask you, do you think that the procedural motion to interrupt would be after the debate is exhausted, or now, right now?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-004-340.u8	I think after the debate has been exhausted. So it's my personal proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-004-340.u9	So today without a resolution, and then we would decide how to proceed. [[Member of Votava: Yes.]] Okay. We've cleared that up. Now, Mrs Jana Lorencová, with a point of fact. Before I give her my word, I apologize to Mrs Věra Kovářová from 11.45 to 1.00. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-004-340.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are still witnessing today, and we are being watched by 16,000 tax officials, as they are disgraced, on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. I dare say with certainty that they are no longer active in the fight against tax fraud as of tomorrow. I don't think they deserve that kind of shame or that kind of attitude to their work. What will be the result? The result will clearly be an even lower tax collection.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-004-340.u11	Thank you. Mr Bohuslav Chalupa and then Mr Robin Böhnisch. Then Mr. Pilný, Kalousek and Šánová. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-004-340.u12	Thank you for the floor. I would like to ask the Prime Minister and the absent Minister of Labour and Social Affairs where you will receive money if the tax administration does not collect money and does not collect it strictly, because the law is from being strict and sanctioned when the law is not implemented. Where will you get the money, dear friends from social democracy, for your social programs? I'm really curious about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-004-340.u13	De facto remarks have been reproduced. Mr Robin Böhnisch, then Karel Fiedler and then Karel Rais. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-004-340.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. After talking to them, I don't think tax officials will be disgraced. Tax officials will be understood after today because they are appalled by how they are forced to bend the laws, how methodical instructions from the Ministry of Finance are passed above the laws. That's what tax officials are burdened with these days!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-004-340.u15	Thank you. Now Mr Karel Fiedler has also made a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-004-340.u16	I also do not think and I hope that tax authorities will stop working. I certainly don't expect that. But I wanted to respond to the words of Mr. Chalup's previous speaker, where we're taking the money or where it's going to be taken. I was the one who suggested that we tax koruna bonds yesterday. Your President Andrej Babiš's proposal in the explanatory statement is that if this is agreed, it is 13 billion. So, for example, Mr Chalupa, through Mr President, to your MP's club, yesterday you didn't let this happen at the House meeting, you don't want the 13 billion you don't want because Mr Babiš needs the 90 for himself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-004-340.u17	Thank you. Now, Mr Karel Rais also made a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-004-340.u18	Hello. I would like to add to the view that we should postpone this because some analysis should be carried out, if there is any actual abuse of these commands at all. If it's on the table here, then we should probably also compare the number of transactions that were in 2013 with transactions in 2016, which, of course, is also related to the increase in these orders. Just look at one characteristic and forget that in 2013 business was basically on a different level, so I consider it a little bit, I don't want to say maybe incorrect or misguided, one-sided view. So I think if there's this problem on the table, it should be done with a proper analysis, and not just pulling a few data from one characteristic, and that's the number of hedging orders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-004-340.u19	I thank Mr Karel Rais and now another point of fact by Mr Michal Kučera. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-004-340.u20	Thank you. I will answer Mr Rais right away. It has already been said here in the speech of my fellow Member, Mr Martin Plíšek, but in 2010 there were 100 of them for the whole year, in 2013, as Mr Rais asked, there were 467 of them, and in 2015 there were 1,605. So these are multiples of what was in the previous periods before Secretary of Finance Andrej Babiš.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-004-340.u21	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Ivan Pilný, Mr Miroslav Kalousek will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-004-340.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, as is my custom, I will try to return to the subject that is being discussed. First of all, I would like to take a very short tour of history and it says that the detention order was introduced into the law - paragraph 103 - on VAT by an amendment, which was prepared in 2011 by the Ministry of Finance led by Miroslav Kalousek. The draft law was submitted in May 2011, approved in September 2011 and became effective on 1 January 2012. At that time, Minister Kalousek even granted the current Director General of the General Financial Directorate Martin Janečka an extraordinary reward of 20 thousand. CZK for cooperation on the preparation of this legislative change. I very often disagree with President Kalousek's views, but in this case I congratulate him because the institute was inserted there quite correctly. It is clear in Bohemia that when you come somewhere, when the driving is over, you'll just find it painted there. And now the numbers. It was submitted in total between 2013 and 2017 as at 31. 3. 4 990 warranty orders. Against this, 2 279 appeals were lodged, one recognised by the Financial Authority, 528 parties appealed to the courts, and the Supreme Administrative Court annulled only 7 of these freezing orders. Seven! That's 1.33 percent of the hedging orders. One full thirty-three percent! Let us look at another institute that is enshrined in the law. Police of the Czech Republic boasted some time ago that in 2016 they secured property from crime worth 9.9 billion. CZK 6,2 billion in the previous year. Crowns. Part of this money, and significantly greater than 1.33 percent, was forced to return the police as illegally seized. So are we gonna tell the police not to do this? That he should wait until the trial is finalized? That doesn't make any sense. According to the numbers on the table, it is quite clear that this detention order institute is not abused and that it was legally enforced in the law. We live in the Czech Republic, and again I say that if you come somewhere after the trial is closed, after the whole process described by Mr. Plíšek has taken place, you simply will not find anything there! And we are here to act in the interests of citizens and in the public interest. The financial administration is acting accordingly, and I congratulate her for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-004-340.u23	I thank Mr Ivan Pilný. One more factual comment by Václav Votava and then by President Kalousek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-004-340.u24	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, on your way to Mr Pilný. Yes, it was legitimately introduced into the law by this detention institute, but it is a question of whether and in which cases it is also legitimately used. That's why!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-004-340.u25	Thank you. Now, then, Mr Miroslav Kalousek. Excuse me, my colleague Pilný has made a point of fact. Chairman Kalousek will wait a little longer. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-004-340.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will be very brief and I will just repeat, because apparently Mr Votava did not fully listen, 1.33 percent and 7 cases that were returned by the Supreme Administrative Court.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-004-340.u27	Thank you. Now, therefore, a proper speech in Mr Miroslav Kalousek's debate. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-004-340.u28	Thank you for the floor. Before I speak in the spirit in which I intended, allow me to react, it is no longer worth reporting a factual remark to Mr Pilný. Our motive to initiate this discussion in the Chamber of Deputies, after all, I had the motive, when I wrote my letter to the Prime Minister in April, it was not legislative to abolish this institute. We think it's right. We think it's a good thing he's in our legal order. The question, of course, is how to deal with such an instrument. Mr Pilný did so in the spirit of, say, the rhetoric of the Yes 2011 movement. Someone's just gonna smash someone with a sledgehammer, and they're gonna find out that Kalousek made the hammer, so it's said that whoever did the heinous thing isn't the one who beat the hammer, it's Kalousek who made the hammer. So no. We have nothing against the hammer, I'm claiming that I've put it into legal order. I think he's supposed to stay there, but we really don't care how he treats this institute. Even in relation, as Mr Chalupa said, to the funds that need to be collected in the state budget, because if we do more harm than good, we will destroy the economic operators that generate the funds, and we will also achieve that in some cases the state will undoubtedly have to pay high compensation, so we are losing the funds, not choosing them. That's just arithmetic. [[12.20 hours]] However, allow only a very short speech, because this is what Mr Plíšek said. Prime Minister, I wrote you a letter on 27 April asking you to address this issue because we have disturbing information from the field and from all regions that this institute is being treated very insensitively. Not only is it applied across the board, but then in individual cases Financial management shall proceed to those entities over which the freezing order is applied in a manner which lacks any economic logic. They refuse to talk to them about the payment schedule, they refuse to talk about any restructuring of the entities, they refuse to talk about anything that would allow these entities to continue economically. It simply slams only an execution order and sells the assets of these companies, which often have a good 20-year history, at a price of one-third to a quarter, which logically raises the suspicion that it is often not only motivated to withdraw funds into the state budget, as Mr Chalupa told us, but that it is often motivated by the fact that the Financial Administration is proceeding here either on the basis of the highest political assignment or in the context of a competitive struggle deliberately liquidated. Because from the possible ways that the civil servant has, he chooses the one that rules out the continued economic continuation of the relevant entity. He'll just destroy it. And in a number of cases, not only those quoted here by Mr Plíšek, we have reason to believe that this is because of it and that the motive for this is not the public benefit and budget of the Czech Republic, but the competitive interests and the spread of fear within the government's policy that every entrepreneur is a dirty fraud and needs to be stepped on his neck. I very much appreciated, Prime Minister, that already on May 5th, which is a very short time - I wrote to you on April 27th, you responded to me on May 5th that you were ready to give information to the Chamber of Deputies. But I guess a little naively thought you'd take it less formally, that you'd actually find out the right condition. You did the right thing, I guess. You turned to your first Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance, to provide you with a background. He undoubtedly entrusted it to Deputy Secretary Schillerová to provide him with the background, and now there has been some mildly smiling information that, based on our correspondence from Deputy Minister Schillerová, whom you, as we have learned, have rightly mistrusted the Prime Minister, wrote something to his finance minister, and this finance minister, whom you, Prime Minister, rightly distrust, and propose his appeal, has written a document to you, and you have read the paper here. Frankly, we didn't really want that kind of information. We wanted to have a serious debate on this matter, and above all, as the Chamber of Deputies, which is responsible for the government, we have given some not aggressive but very urgent position on the state executive. For this reason, I would like to respond to the words of my chairman, the Committee on Budgets. I understand his point, and I also cling to the fact that we should take this seriously to the Committee on Budgets, that we should invite some of the debaters from those specific cases, that we should actually hear it, that we should look into it, for which we do not have room in the Chamber of Deputies. But I very much ask that we not end this discussion. I very much ask that we at least hear Mr Plíšek's motion for a resolution, which I am aware of, which I believe is not aggressive and does not exclude further management of the debate in detail. But I think that the situation is to this extent urgent and that to that extent it expresses all elements of the will that the state executive should not commit that a moderate but quite clear political resolution by the Chamber of Deputies is appropriate in this case. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-004-340.u29	I thank Mr Miroslav Kalousek for his speech. I have three factual points here. First, Mr Chalupa, then Mr Fiedler, then Mr Votava. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-004-340.u30	Thank you for the floor. I will respond here to my colleague Kalousek through you. Undoubtedly, he is a very competent speaker, and here, again, on live air, he demonstrated how to exploit the speech in the quotes of the legislator to demagogically describe certain matters. Reasonable suspicion. I'm coming back again. We had reasonable suspicions here last week. Mr. colleague, by your means, if you have any knowledge that someone has broken the law, there is nothing to prevent you from filing a criminal report, and the law enforcement authorities will either find out or find out if something has happened. And the only one who can say if anyone is guilty or not guilty is the trial in this country. And the reasonable suspicions so released on the air, that again is something that does not belong here, in this legislature. If you have any concrete insights, you have a choice. The same possibility is given to those entities who feel in some way legitimately affected, they have legal remedies for this - we are the rule of law, I suppose, so they have remedies to defend themselves. And he can either defend himself or he can't defend himself. And we have no right to interfere with the proceedings or the courts' work. That's probably all I wanted to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-004-340.u31	Thank you. I've been getting some real notes. Now Mr Karel Fiedler's point of fact, then Mr Václav Votava and others. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-004-340.u32	Thank you. I am interested in what Mr Kalousek here said about how the executions to be carried out by the tax authorities are draconian, how they are liquidated, how simply they are sold at broken prices. I'm totally stalling to comment on whether that's true or not. I'm not going to comment on that at all. But it actually sounded to me in my ears, because I have suggested here several times that - because what my colleague Kalousek described here - are basically often cases of classic executions, not those of the financial authorities, but what the executors of the Association are doing in the Executive Chamber. I have suggested several times that we address this in order to avoid such draconian sanctions for the compulsory and disabled, and it is surprising for me that, in one case, Mr Kalousek is bothered and not. Many times the TOP 09 has voted against us starting to deal with such procedures here and starting to deal with it, and in this case it is a problem. It's funny to me that one day it bothers me, one day it doesn't.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-004-340.u33	I thank Mr Fiedler. Now Mr Votava, then Mrs Černochová, then Mrs Němcová, then Mr Vácha. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-004-340.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would just like to turn against the words of my colleague Kalousek, when he says that this government makes every dirty suspect. That's what I'm really up against. It is true that I have registered with Mr. CEO Janeček that every company is a suspect. That kind of bothers me. It really bothers me. But against the words that the government is making every dirty suspect, I have to say no. [[12.30 hours]] Well, he's the increase, and maybe one number is also to think about -- of course, it's not just an increase in the number of orders, but it's also a question of average measured tax per hedge order. So if it was 85 miles in 2008. CZK, so in 2015 it is 3.3 million. The koruna, and that also seems to say something. Indeed, the purpose of this is for the Financial Administration to approach sensitively in justified cases, so that it does not really have a liquidation character. I have to agree with my colleague Kalousek, who said here that by taking over the company's assets, her bank accounts will be blocked, so the company will cease to function. It's not like it's our business to stop working. Our concern is to get what we're supposed to get out of her, taxes. That's right. But to destroy it? Oh, my God. And that's why we have to let her live.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-004-340.u35	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Let me say again the apology of Mr Milan Šarapatka, Mr Adam Rykala and Mr Martin Komárek. Now, the factual remark made by Mrs Černochová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-004-340.u36	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. That's about all I wanted to say about the war in Vietnam - Gump Gump said goodbye to hippies in front of Lincolnův Memorial in a recently aired film. And unfortunately, by the end, it reminded me of my colleague Bob Chalupa, through the Vice-President. Because we really have such a short memory? I am a member of the Security Committee as well as Mr Chalupa. Who called for an emergency meeting with the Security Committee, nota bene when the chairman of the Committee was on duty in Macedonia together with another colleague, and wanted to discuss the so-called leaks from any of Colonel Šlachta's files? Have you forgotten that? What was going on with the Security Committee when we were out there for four hours talking about whether or not the program was approved, in the presence and participation of journalists? So how dare you moralize this place again?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-004-340.u37	I would like us to comment on the subject of the negotiations. Now, Mrs Miroslava Němcová, with a point of fact. Then the colleague Vácha, then Mr Josef Hájek and Mr Antonín Seďa. Madame, you have the floor on a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-004-340.u38	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. In my point of fact, I want to respond to Mr Chalupa's words. I think it is necessary to realise that the Chamber of Deputies, in addition to being a legislature, also has a controlling role in government performance. There's nothing we can do to get rid of this role of control. And if we learn from the media or from the public space that, in a particular case in the Ministry of Finance and the Financial Administration, something is happening that is not quite right, it is the duty of the Chamber of Deputies as a government supervisory body to deal with this matter. I think you still don't want to understand this, you're referring to any of our opinions or criticisms in this regard to yourself, you feel we're unfairly shooting at you. But this is a doubt that arises from a business level, the Chamber of Deputies has to deal with whether the Ministry of Finance and its controlled organizations do what they have to do, and deliberately do not harm some entrepreneurs while others protect.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-004-340.u39	Thank you. Now, Mr František Vácha, a colleague of Mr Hájek will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-004-340.u40	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a comment on Mr Chalupa through Mr President. You criticized someone coming to this counter with reasonable suspicions. Next time Babiš's witnesses meet for their seance, tell your chairman that he accused four or five MPs of being thieves here. A colleague of Farský is not here, but a colleague of Farský has called on your President to identify these thieves. Then tell him to go to the police and file a criminal complaint against these four or five thieves. That will be the procedure you require of us. Why can't we ask him for you? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-004-340.u41	I thank Mr František Vách for keeping time on the point of fact. Mr Josef Hájek, now. A colleague of Antonín Seďa will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-004-340.u42	Mr President, fellow Members, I would like to follow up on what Mr Kalousek, a colleague of mine, has said, and also Mr Pilný, uses an analogy. The bond bill that Mr. Kalousek invented and enforced, he compared yesterday to someone opening the garage door and turning off the lights. Mr. Kalousek here told us that he invented a hammer for dishonesty, and now someone's hitting it harder than they should. I would also like to compare Mr Kalousek to something that in 2011 he was a manager who found out that his employees enjoyed alcoholic beverages in his workplace. Therefore, he decided that they would have to undergo tests to ensure the safety of production. He left the ministry, Babiš came in and took this and said, "We really need to ensure the safety of these people." And Mr. Kalousek has become a unionist who says, "We can't punish those caught who use alcohol in any way." He didn't drink alcohol, he ate ten compotes. So that's what it's about sometimes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-004-340.u43	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Antonín Seďa, Mr Chalupa will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-004-340.u44	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. This was called for a specific case, so a specific case of how entrepreneurs can be effectively executed in a single day. Financial Administration officials will destroy your life in a matter of hours. You'll prove your innocence in court, but no one will return the company to you. A client of mine, says a tax advisor who is 75 years old, has owned a company since 1991. He's been selling leather his whole life as an employee of Svit. From 1991 to today, he traded leather in his company. In 2012 and 2013 he started working with companies and these companies were VAT payers. They were reliable payers and were paid into an account published by the tax administrator. [[By them?]] In 2016, the tax administrator found that the companies that supplied the client's skin did not pay VAT and were not in contact with the taxpayer. The whole check was launched on 14 January 2016 and the client received securing orders for CZK 17 million. He had $8 million taken from his account, then they barged into the establishment, took the cash register, took the car, took the supplies. Reason? Reportedly involved in VAT fraud. If the Financial Administration issues a hedge order, you have to pay it as soon as they call you on the phone. If you do not do so, they will commence immediate execution. Not from day to day, but now. Plus, they'll issue every hedge order on Friday so you can't pay for it the next day if you don't have it. I don't know what kind of people work in these offices. In today's E15: State is at risk of arbitrage for withholding VAT. The freezing order, an instrument by which the Financial Administration is trying to insure tax contributions to companies suspected of VAT fraud, has sent dozens of companies into insolvency. However, working companies can also be liquidated. They are now considering arbitration by up to billions of crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-004-340.u45	Thank you, Mr Antonín Seďa, for keeping time on the point of fact. Mr Bohuslav Chalupa, then Mrs Šánová. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-004-340.u46	Thank you. Very briefly. I, as I recall, was your Minister Mládek who said that businessmen are parasites. So as to who said what here - but it was someone, maybe I'm wrong, I apologize to Minister Mládek, but someone from social democracy said it very loudly, so it's who says what they say about who. [[Protests from the O.R.]] As far as the colleague is concerned, Němcová through you, my colleague, I really realize that we have a legislative and control function. I even worked in a certain control or investigation committee. But we're here to make laws? We're supposed to discuss them politically, but not accuse people of concrete actions that we can't prove it to. That's a little different. [[12.40 hours]] And there's a difference between criticism and there's a difference between slander. And there's a difference between a political message and a political debate and a charge of specific crimes that you have absolutely no basis for, you just think. Or do you have reasonable suspicions? So take it to the committees, to the constitutional and to the various committees, and there solve these problems. But this House has adopted a resolution that is against the law. I have a real - and I think I feel it - problem that this House has put itself in the role of an inquisitor and has identified a particular citizen for doing some actions that this House has not shown at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-004-340.u47	One more point in fact, Mrs Miroslava Němcová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-004-340.u48	Thank you. I want to respond to my colleague Chalupa, because such a passionate performance would have been useful, as someone mentioned here a while before me, when your President Andrej Babiš stood here and said he knew at least five people in this House who stole and are thieves. You were sitting there and you didn't say a half word, even as my colleagues warned me, you applauded that. So either you honor the fact that there is no such accusation without evidence in the House, and you measure every subway, or you act purposefully. You've proven your purpose. And as for your second complaint, the resolution adopted by the Chamber of Deputies, which supposedly proved nothing, yet during the discussion last Wednesday in the House, Mr Šincl, who said that Andrej Babiš was collecting compromising materials for him, took off with the file on him, and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, and then the Home Secretary joined him, said that Andrej Babiš said: wait for what my media will do when you kick me out of the government. So these threats and these behaviors have been described here, and in relation to this, the Chamber of Deputies has defined itself by stating that the Minister of Finance has lied, which I'm sure he lied if he said that he didn't do any such influences, threats or anything like that. He was the Minister of Foreign Affairs, but then he was also the Minister of the Interior who joined him. I read this complaint in the media too.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-004-340.u49	Thank you, Mrs Miroslava Němcová, for keeping time on the point of fact. Now, Mrs Zuzana Šánová's speech, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-004-340.u50	Hello again. I'm gonna try to go back a little bit to point 340. The number and the amount of the hedging orders were presented here. So if I take it from 2013 to 2016, it's true that the number of hedging orders has partially increased, but the amount hasn't changed significantly, it was 3.2 billion in those years, as the Prime Minister said, up to 3.6 billion. For me, therefore, it follows that the Financial Administration seems to have focused on smaller entities in order to collect taxes correctly. That hedge order, you know, it's been in effect since 1993 and it's been in the Tax and Charges Act that's been replaced, this law, the tax code that came into effect in 2010. In that tax order, there is a provision on reinsurance orders, or on a reinsurance order, in Section 167, 168. And it says, if there's reason for concern. These paragraphs were designed not YES, the YES movement, which were also designed by governments of both ČSSD and governments on the right - ODS or TOP 09. I'd rather ask why it's vaguely said - if the idea is justified. What are we supposed to imagine underneath this? And now we have consequences. And if it didn't mean that at the time: there's no reason for a friend to think about it, but there, he looks at me ugly, so I have reason to think about it. So why was this already conceived in the law? In the VAT Act, there is a provision on the freezing order in Section 103 and therefore it is actually written that it takes effect at the moment, but it states that the tax administrator will make an appropriate notification of the tax entity. I don't know what the appropriate way is. Why is it that way in these laws? Then I would like to see my colleague Kalousek - he is not here, but he does not mind - through the President. That's where I'd like to say that those hedge orders are kind of exploring the future. What if I, as tax administrator, can't collect the tax in the future? He doesn't look back, my colleague, since I was 20 years old, because it's not written anywhere that when I've been in business for 20 years and I've been exemplary about being exemplary all the time. So he's looking forward and not backwards. Well, that's what I think... And yet, from the overview of how he was introduced by the Prime Minister and for me, that's what it means to me, or maybe I'll think about why in those years, when it's in the law, virtually. It was in the law, why didn't it go so far? Why weren't those taxes properly collected? And now, suddenly, when the YES movement comes in and has an interest in collecting taxes properly, it seems strange to us that we're going to start using the institute that's given in the law, and we're going to start acting like it, so does it seem weird to us? I think it may seem strange to some here in the Chamber of Deputies, but it certainly doesn't seem strange to the public and to those taxpayers that we want to collect taxes properly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-004-340.u51	Thank you, Mrs Zuzana Šánová. Now, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura in a proper application. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-004-340.u52	Thank you for the floor. First, I'm going to respond to a few previous speakers, and then I'm going to get to what I actually signed up for. Mr Pilný is wrong to say that the freezing orders were approved in 2011 and effective as of 1 January 2012 and that Kalousek was responsible for this. Mr. Vice-President, we have had hedge orders in the legal order since 1993. You were talking about a VAT amendment where there's a special adjustment to the VAT freezing orders. So let's stick to the facts and be precise. That's why statistics. Didn't you find it weird that the Prime Minister and some others here said the number of hedge orders in 2010 and 2011, and you said it was since 2012? Otherwise, there'd have to be zero if it wasn't for the institute. I'm sorry, even the number seven isn't right. I've got statistics on the financial administration's lost disputes at the Supreme Administrative Court, I'll hand it over to you later, I've got file numbers, I've got company names here, but I'm not gonna read them, I don't want to hurt those companies anymore. And they're companies that won in an independent court. Where is the responsibility of those who have wrongly used it? What else is the final decision of the court that this is wrong and cancels? And it's not for the people's criminal report that Mr. Chalupa would still file those criminal charges, he'd be closing someone up. There are other options, these people aren't supposed to do it if they can't handle the device. Now, first, I'm going to show you some specific cases where the state destroyed a company that had 125 employees, they all lost their jobs, and three years later, the company won a dispute, but she's not anymore. It's judicate, I have a number, you can study it. And here you are, Mr Pilný, congratulations to the Financial Administration. If it was the only company that was destroyed by the wrong interpretation of the law, it would be wrong. And she's far from the only one. And it's a case that is quite often commented on in professional circles, those procedures and opinions of the Supreme Court are used in other judicacies. This is the company Českomoravská oleářská. Within three hours, the Financial Administration liquidated this company that was trading with PHM just because it thought it hadn't proved it in its vicinity, not in this company itself, that somebody was doing tax fraud in its vicinity. Until then, the company worked as standard, paying taxes in tens of millions of crowns, employing, as I said, 125 employees. All the checks carried out by the Financial Authority were fine. All employees went to the employment office after the intervention of the Financial Administration. The case took place in December 2013. In January 2016, the Supreme Administrative Court ruled that all decisions and procedures of the Financial Administration had been annulled. [[12.50 hours]] How do you think it was valid for the company? Try to answer me by telling me how you congratulate the Financial Administration and how you collect taxes. And she's not the only one by a long shot. But even if she was the only one, is that normal? Who was responsible in the Financial Administration? The increase in hedging orders between 2010 and 2016 was sixteen times, is that okay? I've got dozens of disputes that haven't ended yet, for example. The Regional Court in Brno gave the firm the truth, and now at the Supreme Administrative Court, we'll see what happens. I can give it to you again. I have here a letter from the Brno Regional Chamber of Commerce for Mr Rais, who says this is the right thing to do. Meet the case, I'll give it to you. You are far more influential than an opposition MP. Try to stand up for this proper company that paid. Where it takes 2.5 years to check without a result. And you're always telling us here, we're the ones who get the taxes right. And do you really want to use that winged motto that when the woods fall, they fly splinters, like the CEO Janeček said? When he used it, for example. in the South Bohemia Region, a warranty order for a company that provides public transport, which has not proved anything, which pays taxes properly. When the woods fall, splinters fly. So, Mr. Ambassador, what if it was your company? Even if it's the only one, or I mean 1.3%. You say nothing, 1.3%. Who has always paid taxes, had nearly 130 employees - and the IRS destroyed it! Would you also say congratulations and thank you? I don't think so! Now, the media-mentioned example from last week, read how the General Financial Directorate purchased cell phones from a company suspected of carousel. If the company were to do it, there's a hedge order issued on it today, the employees are out of work, there's no accountants, there's no resources, there's no resources, there's no resources for lawyers, there's no auditors, there's no defense. The company is completely defenseless at that moment. But you say congratulations to the Financial Administration. Well, congratulations on your assessment. What are we gonna do about the General Financial Directorate? Have you read their defenses? She's logical, except when the company says the same thing, she doesn't admit it. Read 10 Financial Administration Guidelines on how business partners are to be checked. They're supposed to investigate whether an owner lives in tax havens, etc. They bought cell phones from a company like this, by the way, with reverse charge. Yet the Directorate-General paid a VAT of 366,000, which was no longer recovered. Plus, at the firm, at the time they bought the phones from them, there was a tax check with suspicion of involvement in the carousel. How can the State and the Financial Administration justly ask entrepreneurs to keep an eye on it if they can't keep an eye on it themselves? It's not the most remote county financial office, or it's a local office today. It's the General Financial Administration. And her reasoning? The company was never in trouble and offered the lowest price. Ask those entrepreneurs who have settled accounts if they also argued, for example, that it was their long-term business partner, with whom there was never a problem. The IRS doesn't care. They can afford it. Why aren't they tougher on each other than the businessmen? Who else should have reports of who is suspected of financial fraud from tax defaults other than the General Financial Directorate? And not a small s. r. o. or greater s. r. o. But Mr Pilný congratulates the Financial Administration. So why don't you take a look at the case, the phone purchase, and see how the firm would turn out if the Financial Administration found out about the case? Now, let's put fines on it. Control report. I was talking about this a few months ago, remember, that was the day after the press conference, where Minister Babiš announced that the Financial Administration was progressing inhumanely. Not an opposition MP, not a political opponent, but a finance minister. And it was solemnly announced that in 2016, if it was really only administrative misconduct, up to two fines would be forgiven and one fine for 2017. I have quoted here the example of an entrepreneur from Opavsko who visited me in the parliamentary office who made administrative errors, received an invoice which did not mention the VAT number of his long-term supplier, reliable, who always paid taxes, stated it in the first inspection report for the first quarter of 2016, it was in April, then he actually made a mistake, in May, did not respond within five days to confirm to the financial office, I understand that was a mistake. In January, nine months later, he received a fine of CZK 30,000. For a thousand crowns he asked for forgiveness, refused, so for 600 crowns he asked for a payment schedule at least because he was unable to pay the fine at once. I note that the tax authority also admitted, in rejecting the appeal, that the tax entity regularly and without any problems paid taxes, regularly and without problems fulfilled its tax obligations, however, to compliance. [[unintelligible]] The man turned to me last week, after the press conference, was full of optimism that the fine would be forgiven. He made a new request, again for a thousand crowns, so you already have 2,000 crowns for a request, until today it hasn't been decided. Where's the PR? Where is the deed of the press conference where Minister Babiš, his great deputy and his great Chief of Financial Administration, was? Why are they smashing the little ones, and they can't keep an eye on themselves, and they're buying cell phones from a company that's suspected of carousel? I think every day the Financial Administration confirms what I'm saying and what I'm not happy about, that the big ones are scared and healing in the little ones. I'm bohužel so. And that's not the right approach. If the businessman had been fined a thousand crowns for his misconduct because no one really lost any money. All I'm saying is that the VAT on the pre-invoice that the contractor exchanged sent him with the same number, just added the VAT number, was 800 crowns. They were also paid for in the state budget. But 800 crowns - and the entrepreneur to this day it cost 32 600 crowns. What personnel measures did the CEO take for the purchase of mobile phones without reverse charge from the Karusel suspect company for not taking CZK 366,000 into the state budget? I'd be quite interested, but I don't have anyone to ask when I look in those benches behind me. And that's a shame. Because if the state wants to be strict, then who else should follow the rules most accurately than the General Financial Directorate? Then do not marvel at the indignation of small entrepreneurs who say: They can and we can't. He doesn't admit anything to us for a minor administrative error... I admit them, yes, I didn't answer, I don't have an accountant for the main job, it's my fault, $30,000, no one's talking to me. Press conference - we forgive. Result - zero. Let's go back to those hedge orders and let's just say that this really means the company's economic death. I would ask the Prime Minister if the Minister of Finance is not here to at least let the members of the Budget Committee process statistics on how many litigations have taken place, how much the Financial Administration has won, how many tax entities have won. If they're holding some money, how much of that money ended up in the state budget, how much they had to pay back, if there was any interest on it, when the state is holding, how much did it pay to check the mobile phone purchase case, because I think it's really outrageous. I want to ask if it would be appropriate to change legislation. I have some suggestions from the Brno Chamber of Commerce. For example, so that the seizure of money would be limited in time. Let's say it's six months, it's not that short a time. Within six months, it should be proven and the tax fixed. And it's not like someone's gonna confiscate the money and run tax control for two more years, and it's not even clear how much they're gonna pay in two years. I don't just want to give examples that limp a little bit, but especially in cases where it doesn't prove it, I want to know who's responsible for destroying the company and jobs. State - these are specific people. It's not that the institute isn't supposed to be in the law. I don't think so. Let's just think about who put it there, I just point out that in 1993, but I don't know exactly whether it was from the Federal Assembly or the Czech National Council, respectively. already from the Parliament of the independent Czech Republic. But even the 16-fold increase from those hedge orders. [[13.00 hours]] I think someone's making their job easier, someone who can't control their carousels. Do you remember, members of the budget committee, Mr. CEO Janeček showing us the figures, how they're doing, how they catch cheaters, how they're tied up? The charts, the figures, that's where the board was. But he can't do it himself. His people can't do it, and they want businessmen to do it. And the example I was telling you, the suspect wasn't the company, it was their business partner. At least maybe I can read you some of the Supreme Administrative Court's decisions in the oil court case, although the language is very complicated. I have here the 2016 reference number that the Supreme Administrative Court has stated that it is necessary, if possible, to maintain the existence of a tax entity for the duration of proceedings before administrative courts. And this is to be applied consistently in cases where the nature of the dispute over its own substantive tax liability shows that it is a fact, one way or another, legally or factually questionable and to some extent unclear. I would ask the Prime Minister to write in the answer he has had processed, even in cases where the Financial Administration has succeeded in the dispute, how much they claimed, how much the tax entity should have paid and how much it was actually used to make an objective picture. That there is a problem, I think that if you're reading at least the economic sections of newspapers or servers, you know, and more and more entrepreneurs are complaining about it. But you know what the saddest part is? Those people who come to me and voluntarily give me the documents from the tax proceedings ask for one thing: don't say it's our company. We're really scared of that IRS from the state. If you mention our name behind the microphone, we're afraid the state will avenge us. And that's the saddest part. A vengeful view of the state for complaining that someone is defending their interests, whether rightly or unjustly. That is why we have the courts to decide whether the complaint is justified or not. But they can't be avenged by being allowed to defend their rights, and that's why they're gonna send another control, another control. I'll give you a letter, Mr. Rais, maybe you got one too. I put him in an e-mail from the Brno Chamber of Commerce today, where there is a particular case of a man who has been honest in his business since 1990, and every time they don't find anything, he starts further control and further control and a new financial year and they're still there. They confiscated his money, never owed anything. That's not normal. And for that, I personally don't want to thank the Financial Administration and I won't. When we're still talking about whether or not she should be independent, I'm sure she is. But she's not impartial. And you forget that. How is it that it destroys companies using the selection method and is not able to prove it? Who is responsible for this? And let's get back to the key question. If the financial directorate can't control it, how can he justly ask businessmen to do it? The answer is very simple: it can't!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-004-340.u53	Thank you, Mr Zbyněk Stanjur. I have two options - to complete this point with the fact that I have here two factual remarks by Ivan Pilný and Josef Hájek, or to interrupt this point and announce a lunch break and a meeting of the Organizing Committee. Since I have not yet had a chance to get to the detailed debate, and Mr Votava does not signal that he does not insist on interrupting, as he said in his speech at the beginning, I will interrupt this point in the general debate with the fact that there are two entries to the factual remark, namely Ivan Pilný and Josef Hájek. I'm declaring a break until 2:30 p.m. with an organizational committee meeting at 1:08 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-004-340.u54	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Let me welcome you to the afternoon block of our meeting, wishing you a good experience after certainly a good lunch. I'll read the apologies first. Minister Milan chovanec apologizes today from 14.30 pm to the end of the day due to a business trip. Mr Jiří Junek also apologizes today from 14:30 pm for personal reasons, Mr Petr Kořenek apologizes today from 15.45 pm to the end of the day for working reasons. Mr Martin Kolovratník apologizes today from 16 a.m. to the end of the day for personal reasons. That was an apology. Our first point of this afternoon's meeting is the point
