ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-003-004.u1	4. Government bill on the state budget of the Czech Republic for 2018 /German press 2/ - third reading I would like to see Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová and rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, Mrs Miloslava Vostrá, take the position at the rapporteur's table. The amendments to the proposed bill are listed in the Chambers of Press 2/3 and have also been distributed to you on benches. I would remind you that the examination of the draft State Budget Act is governed by Sections 101 to 106 of the Rules of Procedure. The draft law is not directed to the guarantee committee for discussion, and therefore the budgetary committee does not take a recommendation or recommendation opinion on individual proposals. Before I open the debate, I will ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, Mrs Miloslava Vostroa, to present a set of amendments, accompanying resolutions and to make a proposal for a voting procedure. The rapporteur is on her way. We'll wait. Madam rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-003-004.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable members of the Government, honourable colleagues, colleagues, I would like to introduce you to the proposal for a voting procedure. Then the debate will be open, so if you have any other proposals, I will, of course, accept them. I've been trying to get all the deputies to have the basic procedure proposal in front of you, but I'm going to do it anyway. Firstly, we would vote on the amendments to the amendments to the Committee on Budgets. These are the proposals in Annex 2b, which is the proposal under B68. It's my suggestion. This is a legislative technical proposal and this proposal will no longer be voted on when voting on items. Then it is in the annex one proposal B1 by Mr Hamáček, the proposal B2 by Mr Filip. Both of these proposals are reflected simultaneously in the numerical changes in Part 2b, B14, B20. About them, if we vote now, then, of course, they won't be able to vote anymore. Secondly, we shall vote on the draft budget committee in Annex 1, as amended by the approved amendments, by one vote, unless there is any objection. Thirdly, we shall vote on the Committee's proposals for amendments to the figures, as amended by the amendments approved in Annex 2a, by one vote, unless there are objections. Fourthly, we will vote on the proposals from the second reading debate individually, as they have been said, and you will all have them in writing in the distributed materials on the benches - Annex 2b, with the exception: Submit Amendment B50, which is an additional consensual proposal from a majority of Members of the Committee on Budgets, then vote on Amendment 52 in variant 2, which is directly linked to proposal B50. Then vote in that order. Fifthly, vote on the bill as a whole, i.e. in accordance with the draft resolution of the Committee on Budgets. It's on the front page of your material. Sixthly, in conclusion, vote on the proposals for accompanying resolutions. Here it's possible, I'll leave it up to you, vote in pieces, or individually. I would also like to point out to you, fellow Members, that if the amendments draw up an item of the government reserve for a legal deadline, the proposals will be unvoteable if they are against this item, and so will any of the amendments exhaust the item to zero, so other proposals that would be against it will also be unvoted, which I will draw your attention to. [[height?]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-003-004.u3	I thank you, rapporteur, and I am opening the debate at third reading, including on the proposed procedure. For your information, I have a priority right here - President Faltýnek came forward first, but he withdraws his application. Furthermore, Minister Schillerová applied with priority rights, and then with priority rights, President Kalousek. Furthermore, I have for the tapestry that when the procedure is being discussed, Mr Volný was the first to sign up, Mr Juránek, the second to sign up for the procedure, so that we should have it recorded. So please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-003-004.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law on the state budget of the Czech Republic for 2018 reached a third reading in the Chamber of Deputies. I would like to repeat the basic data submitted by the state budget for 2018. Revenue from the State Budget 1 beat. 314.5 billion. CZK, state budget expenditure 1 beat. 364.5 billion. CZK, state budget balance minus 50 billion. As part of the second reading, many amendments were made and their influence on the government's draft is varied not only by its scope but also by its significance. The amendments are in a volume exceeding 103 billion. CZK, of which the changes in the Committee on Budgets are 3.1 billion. Kč. I would like to note that the Budgetary Rules Act clearly defines the Act on the minimum amount of the government budget reserve, which amounts to 0,3 % of the total expenditure of the state budget, that is CZK 4 093 492 924 and in the Government Bill on the State Budget for 2018 was proposed at CZK 4 985 608 325, which is 0.362 % of the total expenditure. In the amendments to the Committee on Budgets, it is proposed to apply an amount of 780 million. CZK to strengthen the subsidy for Export Guarantee and Insurance Corporation, an amount of CZK 106 million. It is proposed to use the amount of the so-called parliamentary chapters to increase salaries in 2018 and to increase the amount of CZK 6 million. to provide a subsidy for the Czechoslovak community of legionnaire. In the case of the approval of these three amendments, the government budget reserve will be CZK 4 093 678 212 and only CZK 185 288 is left for possible use. It follows that all other amendments to the government budget reserve's source are therefore unvoting. For amendments which will mean a reduction in the expenditure of the chapter of state debt, I will express my fundamental opposition. For the chapter, state debt provided unchanged interest rates on the current debt structure and in the case of zero bond sales, expenditure is at least 43 billion, while 352 billion must be refinanced. Kč. Several amendments were made to the amendments concerning the increase in non-investment non-supply transfers, namely subsidies for social services. They range from 1.5 billion, which is Mr Volný's amendment, up to 3.5 billion, which is Mr Kaňkovský's amendment. I recommend strengthening subsidies for social services by 1.5 billion at present. CZK, which is a proposal that I will support in the context of the discussion. For further possible financing of another 1.5 billion. I propose to initiate negotiations within the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, of course cooperate with the authorities and look for funding for these social services in 2018. Finally, I would like to point out that if amendments with large scale implications are approved, there will be an internal debt in the budget of the various chapters and they will have to look for funds in these individual chapters, which can, for example, be at the expense of salaries, social expenditures and the like. I shall immediately communicate my opinion on the amendments in the vote. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of my speech, I would like to politely ask the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament to support the Government's draft law on the State Budget for 2018 and its approval. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-003-004.u5	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I have several applications with priority rights. Mr Kalousek will be the first to speak, then Vice-President Fiala and then Vice-President Okamura. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-003-004.u6	Thank you for the floor. I have two notes. The first is a request for a procedure for voting whether we would propose a budget committee A2, which is the inclusion of Annex 9, if we could not vote separately by the Czech Union of Freedom Warriors. We have serious doubts about the transparency of Colonel Vodička's funding, and we would like to express this by voting. The second point is on the financing of salaries in social services, when the proposal of Mr Volný will most likely pass at 1.5 billion, but we all know that the minimum amount is 3.5 billion. And if the Minister promises a follow-up meeting with a solution being sought, I would just like to point out for this future possible scenario that the government's budgetary reserve is focused on unexpected expenditure. If this meeting, which the Minister predicts, ends about 800 miles. up to 1 billion We will take from the government's budgetary reserve to finance something that we know 100 percent today that is to be funded, a rather very unsystematic negotiation will take place. I highly recommend that we find a way - amendments are tabled in this sense - as the expected 3.5 billion. to fund today. So many of my notes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-003-004.u7	Thank you, Mr President. Now with priority rights, Mr. Vice-President of the House of Fiala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-003-004.u8	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to introduce you to the final opinion of the ODS on the draft budget and give a very brief explanation. We've been here for some strange weeks when it comes to budget approval. We discussed the draft budget, which we will be voting on in a moment at the third reading prepared by the government, ČSSD, YES and KDU-ČSL, a coalition to which no one now knows, which does not really exist, and yet the current monochrome government of the ANO movement pretends that this budget is more or less in line with its intentions, its plans and its possibilities. Of course, someone might argue that this is the most possible, that it is a matter of time possibilities, that we have choices at the wrong time, that simply the budget could not be redesigned, but that is not true in our opinion. I will mention here three ways in which it could be redesigned, or at least adapted, in line with public statements and public promises, not from the ODS, but from the mouth of the representatives of the new government of the ANO movement, which is asking us, by the mouth of the Minister of Finance, to support the budget at third reading. [[14.50 hours]] One. You could've acted more responsible and you could've cut your expenses. We have shown you a lot of these examples on our amendments, from several million to really relevant amounts. Or at least you could return the budget, and I mean its revenue and its expenditure, to the original figures, in which it was prepared by the former Minister of Finance for the YES movement in the previous government. You could also remove from the budget what you criticized at the resorts - ČSSD and KDU-ČSL - that they had unracionally added there. But you didn't. Or another option. You could move the funds and, for example, invest more. It has already been said repeatedly before and during the adoption of the budget that the government has invested less this year than governments have invested during the crisis. And for next year, if we look at the budget, there's even less investment. And that is inexcusable given that the economy is going well and in what situation we are in overall. And three. There's one more thing you could have done. You could show us all what your priorities are and really support them with changes in the budget, at least with some, at least symbolic changes. And that's not what happened. We've been hearing about the priorities of the new government since the first day of its creation, but when I look at the budget, and my colleagues have studied it very thoroughly, there's nothing that reflects your priorities, we don't see. We hear about higher pensions. Okay, but the pensions will only be higher and exactly as much as the former government has planned to increase them. I hear from the Prime Minister in every speech on how he will fight for higher pensions, but you did not fight for any higher pensions in Parliament in the preparation of the budget. I hear you're going to fight bureaucracy. We would like to support this fight and join you, but in the budget you have the resources to increase the number of civil servants and, in particular, to increase the number of officials. Not only firefighters and teachers, but also several hundred officials. So what do we call bureaucracy and the fight against bureaucracy? We hear about digitization as a priority. All right, yes, very good, we agree. And where do we find it in that budget? In a higher number of civil servants? Or where it's saved? What's going to be digitized? All we see in that budget is an increase in government consumption and an increase in government administration's budget, that's all, but there's no reduction and no fight against bureaucracy in that budget, and there's no tools for that either. Then they say investment is a priority. I have already talked about this, and others have spoken here before, my colleagues, and they have supported it with detailed figures. If at least a symbolic proposal comes, move some of the funds into investment, allocate more resources for investment, or at least support one of the opposition proposals, such as increasing investment in defence. Ladies and gentlemen, one more time. The fact that the budget is what it is was not a question of lack of time or lack of options. That budget could have been adjusted. As with the cut of the pen at the Ministry of Finance a few weeks ago, the original revenue and expenditure could have made 22 billion more, so something could have been done here in the Chamber of Deputies, and we could have made changes to the budget that would have made the budget better. No such thing has happened, and I therefore state on behalf of the Civil Democratic Party that we will not support this budget. And I'm going to put ours out of support in three points. We will not support this budget because, firstly, we consider it too little ambitious with regard to the possibilities in which our economy is located and which economic growth offers. Secondly, we will not support it because we consider it inefficient given the growth mentioned. Third, we will not support him because we consider him deaf and blind to the risk that current economic growth will not last forever. The way in which the new government continues and which, according to this budget, takes over from the previous government is the way of economics that can weaken the Czech Republic in times that will not be as economically favourable as these. And those times simply come. None of us want it, but times like this always come, and we have to count on it at times when we're doing well. The budget presented does not take into account anything like that, and therefore the Civil Democratic Party will not vote for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-003-004.u9	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Now with priority rights, Vice-President Okamura. I merely specify that Mr Volný will not be the first to speak for the procedure, because his proposal has already been included in the rapporteur's proposal. So Mr. Juránek will take the first step in the procedure. A point of fact - Mr Kalousek, President Kalousek, I am sorry, I have overlooked. Your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-003-004.u10	Forgive me, I was slightly provoked by my previous speaker to get out and say two things. Firstly, I fully agree with his assessment. We have said many times that we cannot support the budget thanks to the basic parameters approved at first reading. And when I listened to what President Fiala said the coalition could do, I also heard that it could return the basic parameters of the budget to at least the framework that the former Minister of Finance prepared and presented. Yes, the government really could have done that, and we wanted it to, and we also proposed it at first reading. We regret that the parties of the former government did not support this because they could, but they did not. But the fact is, the ODS didn't want it, because she didn't support the proposal. Now I don't understand why you're blamed by the ODS for not doing this. The ODS certainly had good reasons why she didn't want it, too.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-003-004.u11	I thank you for keeping time. Now, with priority rights, Mr. Vice-President Okamura. Next, Prime Minister Andrej Babiš will act with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-003-004.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, the more I think about the government's state budget for 2018, the more details I realize, the more pain it causes. [[Laughter.]] The economy will grow... [[He's laughing.]] I'm gonna...
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-003-004.u13	I don't want to yell at my colleagues. You're a success. [[Fun in the hall.]] But I'm gonna ask for peace so we can continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-003-004.u14	There. The economy will grow at a rate of between 3 and 4 percent, but the tax quota has been growing for the third year in a row. It will reach 34.4 % from 32,6 % in 2015. The budget is accompanied by expectations of a lower drawdown of money from the European Union. Operational programmes are planned at the level of only CZK 41 billion, and although the Czech government's capital expenditure increases slightly, they are overall lower. This will be reflected in investment and the internal debt, particularly with regard to investment infrastructure, will decrease the volume of investment. The planned investments will fall below 90 billion next year, which is a seven-seventh compared to this year. And what is magical is that the proposed budget will not reduce the state budget deficit. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs swallows CZK 588 billion. Unfortunately, this money is far from just for the needy. It bothers me that those who live an inadaptable, parasitic way of life will continue to take public money according to the proposal. But I also consider parasites to be those who are otherwise and often very sophisticatedly sucked into public money. For example, the so-called political non-profit organization. It is noteworthy that CZK 33 million per month is spent only on operating software serving social welfare payments. I don't understand. I always felt like I was going to buy software and it was running on my computer for free, or at minimum cost. Looking at the draft budget, we also see other unpleasant things. Consumer prices have increased, but the living and existential minimum has remained at the same level for seven years and is likely to continue. So once again, water for the mill to private bailiffs, because the lower the minimum of life, the smaller the so-called. the non-recoverable amount and the more frequent economic liquidation, albeit of a negative debtor. [[15.00 hours]] The excessive Senate will cost us next year 588 562 865 CZK. We in the SPD propose to cancel the Senate. Unfortunately, however, we are alone in this proposal. I list the above examples with the fact that the state's expenditure needs a really deep audit. For example, in the case of the Senate, I would like to starve him, which means gradually reducing the state budget, which is voted only by the House, virtually. It should gradually decrease to zero, and therefore the senators would either be forced to do their job free of charge or end the activity. We in the SPD are proposing some changes and transfers, and we will also support some changes that you, esteemed colleagues and esteemed colleagues from competing parties come up with. I'm not going to make a long list of what we support and what we don't. You will see this in the next vote. But let me sum it up into a simple principle. We support and support for the SPD any change that will increase the standard of living of our citizens. And by the way, in order to show that we are not ideological and dogmatic, we will support non-investment support for non-political non-profit organizations that are engaged in promoting the restoration of the natural functions of the landscape in water retention. This is one of the fundamental topics of the present, which, unfortunately, both politicians and the public are ignoring. Quality ore soil is not only terribly important for its ability to hold water, but it is a key element for the quality of our food and, of course, for our food self-sufficiency, which we should gradually work towards. Our key theme in the SPD is not only the decentralization of power in politics and the enforcement of elements of direct democracy, but also the decentralization of energy and the economy, local and local self-sufficiency. This is the only meaningful future and the answer to imports of low-quality scumbags from all over Europe or the world. And I'll allow myself to finish with a request. Let us discuss, as soon as possible, a systemic audit of public expenditure, including those of mandarins, especially from the point of view of their effectiveness and efficiency, and only then let us consider systemic changes in the expenditure of the state budget. I think, for example, the Supreme Audit Office, the SAO, could analyze both expenditure and revenue after the Ministry and prepare an analysis including an assessment of the state on the basis of long-term checks. Among other things, the SAO would add money to the budget. And here it would be very well invested, because it would return to the state in subsequent savings. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the final vote on the entire state budget, in the Freedom and Direct Democracy movement, the SPD, we will decide on the basis of the vote on the amendments and I will announce the position. Thank you and have a nice voting afternoon.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-003-004.u15	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Mr Marek Výborný would like to respond to your speech with a factual comment. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-003-004.u16	Mr President, my dear colleagues, my dear fellow Members, I must look back because what has been said here, the unprecedented attack on the upper chamber of Parliament, on the Czech Constitution, on letting the Senate starve, that is outrageous. The Constitution's creators knew very well why the senát was incorporated into the Constitution. Today, in today's political reality, the Senate is showing how important democracy will be as an insurance policy. And talking about letting somebody starve, we're going back somewhere deep, deep in history. Shame on you!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-003-004.u17	Now with the Prime Minister's priority right. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-003-004.u18	Thanks for the word. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to comment on the budget, especially on asking President Fiala, through Mr President, not to say that it is the budget of this government, which the President called winter, or which has different names. It's not our budget. This draft budget is the draft budget of the coalition government of Prime Minister Sobotka, KDU-ČSL, ČSSD and the ANO movement. And the first draft budget was submitted by me in May as Minister of Finance, which is why I am sorry that it actually seems that the draft budget is now nobody, virtually. Some say it's ours, but it's definitely not ours. When I got out a while ago and I said why we didn't have elections in June again, everyone said, that's a crazy idea. Then, recently, some colleagues repeated it. And when we joined the government on January 29, 2014, we inherited the budget and did nothing with it because there was nothing else we could do. And there was nothing we could do for us either. We, as the new government, would like to change pensions, increase the basics from 9 and 10 percent. And instead of raising pensions by CZK 475 again average, so those who have little will get less than those who have more, so we would like everyone to get CZK 435 - all pensioners as well. And you know it's not possible that it wasn't technically possible. So please don't say... Don't compare this government without trust, minority, winter, or whatever you want with this budget. That's not how the government has anything to do with the budget. This government was trying to find money for social services. And the Minister scratched them off 1.5 billion in the operation of individual ministries and in other matters. Even from the damn EGAP and the CEB, which cost us CZK 2.8 billion in five years, these two institutions have ruined our budget. The legacy of previous governments. So let's be clear. We've been saving on state debt in the past. Yes. In 2016, we saved 11.7 billion, and we've given it to teachers and police officers and highways since September. That was 2016. And we put it on the necessary stuff. And we only saved $5 billion in 2017 because, of course, we reduced our debt. And now it's a long shot and actually to propose something at the expense of other government debt revenues is nonsense, because we simply have to pay the interest. So I don't know why the former coalition is pretending to have nothing to do with it. I don't know why the President talks about this being our budget. It's not. And I also don't know why someone is proposing billions to repair the roads of the second and third classes of regions, when historically we were the first government to give the regions money: 10.8 billion. Yes, it was the first time Minister Tok brought it up. Before that, he was always orange, then the blue captain, so there was never money, but because it was given for political reasons. So I don't think that's appropriate either. And as for social services, please, as Minister of Finance, I actually proposed an increase, and it also passed, social services from 1. 7. 23 % and from 1. 11. 10 per cent. So there's been a total increase in social services this year by 34 to 35 percent. And within the MPSV budget, what it wanted for social services got. So I don't understand who actually forgot to ask because why wasn't it requested? Yes, the regions received money for social services for 2017 and probably did not receive enough for 2018. This is the situation, and that is why I would love it if we just realized that this is not the budget of the new government, that this is the coalition government budget, in which, of course, we were sitting as an YES movement, and that it was some compromise. That is why it amazes me even more that there are various proposals coming from former coalition partners in particular. So, of course, I can promise here that if our government continues, we will certainly do our utmost to find the money for social services that are missing from the regions, and we will be happy to meet in the regions, I think, on January 4th. [[15.10 hours]] We'll negotiate about it. And we're also going to be looking for money to repair the roads of the second and third classes, where, of course, there's a huge deficit. But I would like us to be reasonable to take it really the way it is true that we do not make any political gestures here that we could have done while we were there, colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-003-004.u19	Thank you, Prime Minister. The Prime Minister's speech raised several factual points. First Mr Marek Výborný, then Mr Jurečka, then Mr Kalousek. Not an Excellent Member. So, Mr. Jurečka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-003-004.u20	Mr President, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, dear government, Prime Minister, I confess that it is quite fascinating to hear from the present Prime Minister and also this year the former government's finance minister, who tells us here that he and this government have nothing to do with this budget. If he - and you, Prime Minister through the President - were preparing the budget by June of this year as Minister of Finance, then I confess that I do not understand logic. Four years ago, we too could have had reservations about the budget as the government that came in, but it was our budget that we worked with all year round. If, over the last two months, there have been legitimate demands from the social sphere on the financing of social services, then it is logical and absolutely factually correct that the Chamber of Deputies and Members are trying to remedy this disability, because sooner or later the problem will catch up with us in the course of the next year. I would like it not to be so that you, Prime Minister, are acquiescing and acquiescing all your achievements. We must honestly admit that some things have failed completely, and that is what we are here to try to fix now. And it's up to you now to be able to show good will with the Minister. To Vice-President Okamura through Mr President. I must say, I'm also fascinated by your view of the Senate. When you ran for Uherskohradiště in the Senate, you used to drive and explain to voters, write it on social networks, and say it in various interviews, how important it is to be in the Senate, that you want to be in the Senate, so that thanks to the Senate as a second chamber, you can positively influence developments in the Czech Republic. So please don't use your mouth, as they say in the countryside, the canal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-003-004.u21	Thank you, Mr President. Please consistently turn to me by means of me. Now two minutes - President Kalousek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-003-004.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond to the Prime Minister's words, which compared the current situation to 2014, when the government was appointed in January, and as he said, with the budget that we inherited, we could no longer do anything. We could. The State Budget Act can be amended. This means that you could have submitted an amendment in 2014 that would have adapted more to your government's priorities. You can do the same today, Prime Minister. I want to give you an absolutely binding offer to the TOP 09 Club. If you propose an amendment where you will return the expenditure of the state budget to the amount that you yourself, as Minister of Finance, proposed in May in the framework of the government's expenditure frameworks, you can count 100% on the full support of Members of the TOP 09 for such an amendment. Either you meant what you just said, then you submit the amendment, and it will certainly be accepted, because it will be about 25 billion. less spending, and that will certainly be good in view of the macroeconomic situation, or you have now just alibiscated and you will not submit such an amendment. It's up to you now, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-003-004.u23	Thank you. Now, with the factual remark of Mrs Valachová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-003-004.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to Mr Babiš's Prime Minister's comment on the budget. That the budget was drawn up by the previous government, that's a pretty clear fact. No one's hiding that. On the other hand, the YES movement was part of the coalition, so it is clear that it also had a major impact, particularly through the Ministry of Finance, on how the budget will be drawn up, on how expenditures will be set, on how revenue will be set. As a former coalition, I don't think we should drag each other over who added or didn't add. I think that towards social services, health services, but also educational services, the government that has served has done absolutely the most in the last 15 years, and there is no point in questioning or dirtying it in any way right now. The position of social democracy is clear. We want to solve social services so that there is enough money for workers in social services. It's an objective fact. The budget couldn't respond to that. The point is that more and more social services are registered in the territory until 31. 12. We are aging our populations, threatening to flee workers from social services, and this is an absolute alpha and omega for social democracy. And if its amendment is not supported, social democracy will also not support this budget. It's a minimum requirement. I believe we can make a deal with former coalition partners.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-003-004.u25	I thank you for keeping time. Now a point of fact, Vice-President Tomio Okamura. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-003-004.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to respond to Mr Jurečka's ex-minister of agriculture. We, as SPD, have the Senate's cancellation program. So, Dear KDU-ČSL, don't tell us what to have in the electoral program. We got 540,000 votes for the election program, you may have gotten half, but don't tell us what we're supposed to have on the electoral program. We're just gonna have it on the electoral agenda. Our voters wish to abolish the Senate. You don't like it, you're just unhappy with it, that's okay, but that's about all you can do about it, and we're not gonna do anything about it anyway. We're not betraying our program. Unlike you, Mr. Jurečka, who was not a senator, I was a senator. I am also a Member. I have a comparison of work. I am convinced that the Senate is useless given that it costs 588 miles. 562 thousand. 865 crowns a year. I think we'd better retire. We in the SPD want to add to the elderly, disabled fellow citizens, working families with children, to remove parasites and inadaptable citizens. That's right. You don't like it, it's okay. We want to abolish the Senate, we want to reduce the number of Members to 81, we want a direct choice and rebuttal of politicians, we want a referendum law, we want the President's appeal as well. We have it on the agenda, more than half a million citizens want it. You in KDU-ČSL don't want it, it's good that the citizens heard it, at least we know who wants what and who doesn't want what. That's quite all right. Thank you. If you repeat it over and over again, I'll always come in like this, repeat our program and repeat yours. It's okay, but I'd rather go back to discussing the state budget. I think it would be better and that we should continue and work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-003-004.u27	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Mr Jurečka, to whom I hereby give the floor, wants to respond to your speech with a factual remark. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-003-004.u28	I don't like doing this. But, Mr Vice-President Okamura, through Mr President, read in the screen record exactly what I said. I didn't say what you just interpreted in your speech. I was talking about what you said six years ago when you ran for the Senate in Hungary. I think that the size and character of politics shows what it says and does in the long run. And I think in your case, there's an example of beautiful populism, pure populism. Please nicely, when we are at these amazing things, how you talk about where money goes, I think it would be worth looking at whether contributions to parties like Dawn, which one president then privatizes, are also meaningful if it would be worth putting that money on people who need it more. As you have managed over the last four years, as you have been dismissed as chairman of this political party, or movement. I think it also shows your character. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-003-004.u29	Thank you. Now, with Mr Holík's point of fact, then with Mr Ivan Adamec's point of view. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-003-004.u30	Mr President, fellow Members, fellow Members and fellow Members of Jurečko, through Mr President. There were words about the management of the Dawn movement. Of course, it's been more than three years. I know something about it, I was there, I know where the money went, but it certainly had nothing to do with Mr. Tomio Okamura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-003-004.u31	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Adamec. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-003-004.u32	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, so I, as an emeritus senator, i.e. Ex-senator, I want to respond to that. I didn't mean to, but now the discussion has provoked me a little bit. I don't care what the SPD has in the program. That's your program, you promised it to your constituents, you had a success that was evaluated by the elections. I wouldn't dare comment on that. I don't give a damn what Mr. Attorney at the time said to the Senate, President Okamura, as the Senate sees. That's just his point of view, I don't appreciate it, but I'm sorry about the one thing that was here. I didn't like the form. Like starving something? Please, this doesn't belong here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. I get it, you have it on the electoral agenda, but please, present it a little differently and decently. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-003-004.u33	Thank you. With a factual remark, Vice-President Okamura has just volunteered for me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-003-004.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, I think the debate has moved in the right direction, because we, as our Dawn movement, have put a national referendum law into the system on Friday. So we're offering an alternative, not that you haven't, but you've always voted against it. KDU-ČSL here, the ANO movement voted against the referendum law in the last parliamentary term, the ČSSD. So within 30 days, the Prime Minister Andrej Babiš's government will have the opportunity to comment on our law, to give an opinion on it within 30 days, to reach the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies, and it can be done on our proposal not only by a referendum on the withdrawal from the European Union, but also by a referendum on the abolition of the Senate. So I hope that KDU-ČSL representatives and others here will allow citizens to make democratic decisions, citizens, i.e. owners of this country, whether or not they wish to abolish the Senate. It won't be Okamura's decision. I hope this gets away with it. We are willing to discuss the parameters of this law, we do not cling dogmatically to those parameters, and I hope the senators will support the referendum law. We need their constitutional majority. So I hope that they will stand up to this, as you say they will support democracy for citizens, vote a democratic referendum law that I hope will come out of the Chamber of Deputies after a general majority consensus. We're willing to discuss it, adjust the parameters so that at least some law passes, we don't have a problem adjusting the parameters, the government doesn't have to worry about it. Let's give a positive opinion on this, let's release it at first reading, let's do 120 votes by general consensus to make you all feel comfortable, and then it goes to the Senate, the senators will have room to express whether they are democrats, whether they want to vote and allow citizens a referendum, and we have it resolved. Then, when citizens collect the appropriate number of signatures, they are bound to have the opportunity to extricate the Senate. That's democratic, that's right, it promotes our movement. It's an alternative we're offering. I think she's totally fine. Thank you. . [[Weak applause from the SPD]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-003-004.u35	Thank you. President Bartošek with priority rights. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-003-004.u36	Thank you. Mr President, let me ask you to respect the Rules of Procedure, because we are at the point where we are discussing the draft state budget, not the draft law on a general referendum, i.e. I ask you to lead those who speak to the point. That's the first thing. And the other. Prime Minister, when I heard your heartbreaking talk about how you had nothing to do with this budget, I was actually starting to feel sorry for you. This life of yours is accompanied by the very, very vulgar things that accompany you, you didn't really want to become a politician, you probably didn't want to become a prime minister, and now you have a budget back into your life that you don't actually apply to. So I just want to say that I'm sorry that things like this happen to you in your life. You prepared that budget, so you have your share of it. That needs to be said as a matter of fact, whether you like it or not. And if you didn't like the budget, you had every right to say, that's not our government's budget, we want it different. You had the opportunity to redo it, come up with another proposal and simply say that you want another draft budget to be your government's budget. Because if that budget goes through, I wouldn't want to hear the rest of the year that you're actually working with a budget that isn't yours. Either say you want to approve the budget because you want to work with it as a government and consider it yours, or say that the budget is wrong, that you don't want votes for it and that you want to redo it. But it's impossible to pretend that you only want half the budget. The budget cannot be approved in half. It must either be approved or rejected. For KDU-ČSL I can say that when we were a government party, we actively participated in the preparation of this budget and we also clearly said that we were ready to support the budget. During the negotiations and at first reading, we did so and it turned out that there are underfunded social services because, unfortunately, they failed to get around 3.4 billion on the salaries of social workers. This increase has been approved by the government, but unfortunately it is not in the budget. We refuse that social services workers are constantly beating people up to promise them, on the one hand, that salaries will increase, and then there is no means to do so and, if necessary, to say, "Dear captains, figure it out for yourselves from regional money." Therefore, I can say for KDU-ČSL that it is absolutely crucial for us to move towards the state budget in order to increase the resources for civil servants' salaries, because we see this as absolutely crucial to how we will continue to work with the budget. But I'm going back to what I said in the beginning. There's no way you're gonna say that the budget we're gonna approve isn't yours. Either say you want to approve it and you want votes for it, and your budget is, or say you don't agree with it and you don't want votes for it. Oh, please don't make excuses anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-003-004.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. With priority rights, Mr. Chairman of the Fiala Club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-003-004.u38	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, I listened with interest to my colleague Bartošek, who was in the government, or his party was in the government, for four years, and now he wants to pin the budget on us. They've been working on it for at least the last year, and now he says we shouldn't make excuses and take it as ours. Well, we're not making excuses, you don't make excuses, either, and sign up for him, Mr. Bartošek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-003-004.u39	Thank you. At this point, no one checks in with a priority... With a factual remark, President Bartošek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-003-004.u40	Mr Fialo through the President, while you are already in the hall, listen to me too. I have made it clear that we have participated in the preparation of this law and that we do not renounce responsibility. It's nothing but listening to each other.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-003-004.u41	Well, thank you. If we have a part with priority rights behind us, Mr Patrik Nacher will respond with a factual remark. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-003-004.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, I didn't originally want to perform, but I have to. [[Laughs in the hall.]] Yes, I say it at the Prague City Council, I will say it here too, but I must respond to my colleague Bartošek through Mr President. Because what he said is demagogy. Mr. Babiš didn't say it wasn't his budget. He pointed out here that this is the budget prepared by the previous coalition government. That's the difference, if you're listening to me now. This means the budget prepared by government parties, ČSSD, YES and KDU-ČSL, i.e. On the other hand, we have nothing to do with this and we have new information here in November and December, although the budget has been preparing since April, I find it a little hypocritical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-003-004.u43	Thank you for keeping time. Now with a point of fact, President Kalousek, then Mr Bělobrádek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-003-004.u44	Thank you. I'm not gonna say I didn't want to perform. I wanted to perform because I want to thank Mr Nacher for actually explaining this. Yes, this is the budget prepared by the coalition government YES, CSSD and KDU-ČSL. But the chairman of the full-fledged monochrome government YES - trust is trust, it is simply a full-fledged government - he said that he simply proposed completely different parameters in May. So I want to say it again - now he has an exceptional option. The draft State Budget Act can either be redesigned or approved and amended. It can be amended several times. So if he's serious about wanting this other than the coalition government, he's gonna propose the novel. And I repeat, if he proposes spending the amount he himself proposed in May so that he could really stand behind it, because that's his budget, we will certainly support it. Because it's going to be a much better budget than the one many of you are going to approve today. But if he doesn't design the novel, please, he's full of shit. Because he's actually glad he can make excuses and not have to spare.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-003-004.u45	Thank you. Good afternoon. Please, Mr. Bělobrádek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-003-004.u46	Hello, Mr President, fellow Members, honourable Government. I would respond to Mr Nachr because he said here that we say we have nothing to do with him. Then you just dropped to the level of Mr. Okamura who said the same thing, and it's not true. So please, at least listen, because no one said for us that we had nothing to do with this. That's not true, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-003-004.u47	Mr. Mr. Nacher. Also a factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-003-004.u48	I'd just like to ask a colleague if he could at least pronounce my name correctly. My name is Nacher, not Nachr, nAChr is nicotine acetylcholinergenic receptors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-003-004.u49	Yes, I don't see any more factual remarks. I have been informed that there is an agreement with the President of the Election Commission, that he will be speaking at this point and familiarising the House with the results of the elections, so I ask my colleagues to allow the President access to the counter.
