ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u1	1. Abuse of power by Finance Minister Andrej Babiš against independent institutions of democratic society Mr Petr Fiala and Mr Michal Kučera will take the floor gradually. I beg Mr Fiala to be the plaintiff. Although President Fiala has already spoken, I will ask him to make this point briefly. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I thank all the Members who supported our proposal for an extraordinary meeting to abuse power by the Minister of Finance and Vice Prime Minister of the Czech Government, Andrej Babiš. I think that all the essential arguments which show the importance of why this extraordinary meeting is to be held have been made by both the appellants and other preferred-right speakers. I am pleased that this time we have created room for other Members who do not have the right to express themselves and take a stand on this extremely serious case.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u3	Thank you, Mr. plaintiff. I'm asking if Chairman Michal Kučera is interested. He's not interested. I am initiating a general debate, which was the first to be heard by Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear government, dear colleagues, what is the main theme of today's meeting, i.e. today's extraordinary meeting of the House, is therefore a scandalous wiretap. I must say that I am certainly not pleased that such practices occur in the Czech Republic in 2017 and that we are witnessing that someone is being recorded. However, what is the content of individual recordings that are already in public is certainly much more scandalous. It is necessary to address what is being said in them, so I would like to say at the outset such a... quote one important policy. "No government should have censors. Where the press has no freedom, no one else will ever have it." The author of this quote is none other than Thomas Jefferson. The quote is actually from the turn of the 18th and 19th centuries, but of course it is valid today. And today, all the more we see is that the media has enormous power. They have the power to influence our entire reality in an important way. And we should be particularly touchy about it, if anyone, especially in such an important position - even though we have learned here today from his speech that he has no political power, of course it is not. We know very well that the Vice Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, Chairman of a strong political party or movement is, of course, politically active so that it is dangerous for him to have such an opportunity at all. The fact that he is the owner of the media is something we have pointed out from the start as a TOP 09 that there is a really big conflict of interest. I am simply saying that we have witnessed earlier that the politicians were influenced by godfathers. Politicians who were in executive positions who had the power to influence things. At present, Andrej Babiš is already a godfather to himself. He doesn't need this link anymore. He's a man who's both a major businessman and a politician. So there's no file between him, there doesn't even have to be a middleman between him. However, I particularly want to turn in this speech to the other politicians sitting here in front of me. The people I work with in the committees, we have been with many people, we have had fair relationships, we have been colleagues for three and a half years. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, among you, among your ranks are people with a very rich professional experience, a career. You have held positions that arouse universal recognition, respect, are respected. You are professors, doctors, you are people, and I will not name them, but who ran major universities or their faculties in the Czech Republic. There's a chancellor between us, a former rector, etcetera. All of you have given your name, your honor and your work so far, which you have done for your fellow citizens, just to join the ANO movement. And at this point, when we learn all these cases, all those related to your chairman, you just keep quiet. The only one who has heard from us, at least as recorded in the media, doesn't even sit here with us, but your MEP is Mr Telička. The only one who somehow defined himself against the president of your movement, and the only one who made a negative statement to his address. And the rest of you are silent, or defending here, we've heard some of the posts. So you agree that media influence is okay? Do you agree with those who were journalists before you became MPs? Do you agree that such practices belong in the 21st century, a free country, a democracy? That the cases we have witnessed have been for several years since the subsidies to the Capi Nest, from koruna bonds, Agrotec, Czech Post etc., that it is all okay. In this regard, Andrej Babiš tries to influence his diaries, which he now indirectly controls, virtually. which he indirectly owns, but still controls, to be absolutely accurate. But that's something that doesn't belong to contemporary Czech society. And I believe that just because I mentioned the positions you've worked in before, and that you're decent people and that you're people who hate these things, you can't agree that you just can't care that you can't care. In my opinion, you would also have your conscience, by the way, it is also in the parliamentary pledge, so it is something that you promised at the very beginning of this parliamentary term, when you first entered this House of Deputies, so you should act according to that conscience. But of course it's up to you. It is then also beautifully readable for voters, how things are and who agree with what practices to whom they seem right, acceptable, and which they defend, albeit silently. This is what I had most to say, because I think it really is important for the public to draw attention to the fact that the YES movement is not only Andrej Babiš, of course. The YES movement is not only ministers for YES, but it is also MEPs, senators, and, as I have already mentioned, MEPs, at least one of whom may have found a bit of courage not to just look at these things, but also to comment on them. The fact that the media are being influenced here is really a serious error of Andrej Babiš, from which he should draw his political responsibility. And we, as the Chamber of Deputies, should not be silent, we should not be silent as individuals, and we should not be showing the public that we can accept this. Thank you for your attention and thank you for considering these words.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u5	Thank you, Mrs Adamová. Now two factual points. Mrs Lorencová and Mr Martin Komárek. Please, madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u6	Thank you, Mr President, colleagues. A moment ago, my previous speaker mentioned independent media. I was a long time ago, when the media law was being prepared, so I advocated, unfortunately, that the political parties should set up their sheets to profile their political opinions, interests, etc., so that whoever buys them knows what he reads, who he lobbies for. I understood, when nothing else, that it was actually not necessary and that it was not in the interests of those who made the decisions, it was not in the interest of such a thing to exist as a separate newspaper of individual political parties. On the contrary. In public media, the views of political parties are infiltrated as needed. In public media, which pays for dealers. And there's a hell of a smell who needs to get in there!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u7	Thank you, ma'am. With a factual remark, Mr Martin Komárek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I think I'm gonna speak in a weak voice because I'm sick. But I can't not mention it, and I can't answer what Mrs Pekarová was talking about. She talked about which practices are nice to us and which are admissible. Well, I have a simple answer. What this House is doing now is brutal sadomaso. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u9	Mr Karel Fiedler is now duly registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u10	Good afternoon. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I, colleagues and colleagues, as I am in the habit, have taken notes from what has been said here by our previous speakers, because I am not one of the Members with priority rights. And the second part of my contribution will concern what has been said here, and I will respond to the words of Mr. Vice Prime Minister Babiš, who has spoken here about 22 debatable questions, and I will add to that, even questionable answers. First, I will mention that it has been said that the work of a successful government is being disrupted. Well, let's try to name the achievements of the government. Rather, I will name what the government has failed to deliver from its coalition declaration. She didn't get to deal with the executions. The topic that worries almost one million citizens of the Czech Republic. She didn't prepare anything for pension reform. Although we have, and I have also voted in favour of the abolition of the second pillar, but some pension reform or concept, we have heard that here several times, has not been presented. Minister Babiš, as he used to, said: I have saved 70 billion. He owns it. Well, that was the 2016 budget. In 2017, when he was so successful, he again proposes a deficit. So what's the success? It was absolutely one-off - not exactly, but a substantial one-off supply of money from the European Union. There were other influences, but the positive outcome was mainly due to payments from the European Union. And this successful minister, or successful government, doesn't matter, the next year's budget proposes again deficit. Why? Because the government doesn't trust itself? Or am I right that the positive, positive outcome of the state budget at the end was merely exceptional circumstances, not systematic work? Mr. Vice Prime Minister Babiš here said that I made a mistake meeting with the journalist Přibil. And, as the previous speaker rightly said, a colleague of Zbyněk Stanjura, how is it possible that the journalist is Přibil into my head, how the journalist nailed himself into Mr. Babiš's private residence in the falcon room? I have no idea where it is, what it looks like, I have no idea where it is in Prague. But, of course, that was a very good question from my colleague Stanjura. If he didn't like it, or it was staged, I'd understand if it was here in the House of Commons, when the journalist intruded on him, or in some restaurant. But that it was at the headquarters of the ANO movement? That's for the good of you. That's where I'd expect a different reaction from Mr. Vice Prime Minister. It has also been told here by Mr Babiš that these are timed and organized campaigns and that various marketing agencies are hiring for this. I also don't like the fact that political parties hire marketing agencies. But frankly, the YES movement also has a marketing agency that organizes these campaigns. If we were to decide in fair political competition... and what we see, where the political scene went, and it's not all the guilt of the YES movement at all, I'm also aiming at the predecessors of this government, for the past parliamentary periods, have set up a system here where marketing campaigns decide, not political competition. The vote was mentioned here, or that we should vote on the motion for a resolution on the departure of Andrej Babiš from politics altogether. I'll admit, I'm a little stunned. I guess you all know I don't belong in Mr. Babiš's fan club. No one can suspect me of that. However, I think that we can call for a resignation, we can comment on this within this parliamentary term, but now don't get angry with me colleagues from the opposition, even Minister Zaorálek, who I think said doesn't belong in the politics of Minister Babiš, so I think that's what voters should be saying about this, so don't be mad at me, colleagues, I certainly wouldn't take that right away from them. When this term is over, whether it ends in due course or - I don't expect it - at some premature date, voters should decide this, and we as Chamber of Deputies shouldn't tell anyone who can run, who can't. We can also say that these political parties cannot run, which is also basically the setting up of a political system of 5% and the need for money to be marketing campaigns, he says. So I'm categorically against it. After all, in 2012, I also performed, participated in and organised demonstrations against the former government and the former system that was here. Let's not pretend that everything was right before, and now it's wrong. Don't be mad at me, I don't agree with this. This political marasm, it's been here a long time. And why are the representatives of the YES movement sitting in this Chamber of Deputies? Because they're like a protest movement. I, earlier at úsvit, now independent, also disagreed with what was here. And let us not pretend that only now is everything wrong. When the devastation and degradation of our political scene and the behavior of individual subjects on them began, it has far deeper roots. It sounded like it's here, too. The Prime Minister now wants to call off Andrej Babiš. I'll just repeat it, but I'll do it again for the sake of completeness. He was the one who brought him to the political scene, who led him to the post of Finance Minister. Almost all the facts, and the new cases, they don't fundamentally change it, they were known earlier. It would be fair if Prime Minister Sobotka said at the same time: Yes, I caused this mistake, I should not have appointed or proposed Mr Babiš as Vice Prime Minister of Government and Minister of Finance. I don't want to -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u11	I am very sorry, Mr Member, but I must interrupt you and interrupt the session of the Chamber of Deputies, because according to the Rules of Procedure, there is no member of the Government presently present. So I interrupt this meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and interrupt you into the presence of at least one member of the government. [[The hearing shall be suspended from 15.28 to 15.29 hours.]] The Minister of Defence is already here and we can continue. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u12	It is probably symbolic and characteristic of how the government faces the problems that are bothering our political scene. And I think it interests the voters, so let them also see who's sitting here in that government row and not sitting there. To what is actually the subject of this meeting. Provocative of Mr. Babiš, she Přibil the press. I don't know this guy, I don't know what he's like, but I already mentioned it here. Then why didn't the Vice Prime Minister say no to this? [[15.30 hours]] And I remember when this recording was published, at first I thought, "It's really scandalous that he's giving the minister copies of an open file." And I don't recall the Minister refusing to get copies of a file for about the first day. He didn't refuse until after, like, one day, the next day, probably after consulting with those marketing agencies or his lawyers who told him it was a very crucial thing, that he was actually committing a crime. So he's rejecting it now. But what stuck in my mind was that the first reaction wasn't like that - I didn't have anything like that on my desk in front of me. After some time lag. To terminate the coalition agreement that neither the ČSSD nor the ANO movement wants it. Let's see why. It is a tactic that whoever does it first is not in a disadvantageous position, or that it is necessary to hold the line over some agreements and something needs to be approved. Don't let the left side or the right side or either side get mad at me. You guys voted for each other together. You didn't mind a coalition together for three and a half years. Social democracy you voted for solarium, they voted for biofuels again. And I could keep going, you know, business with each other. Only now that the preferences of the ČSSD are falling so close to some dangerous boundary has something started to happen. And now for the second part of my performance. Unfortunately, Mr. Vice Prime Minister Babiš isn't here because I had questions for him. So I will bring them in, and if he is still present, which I do not know, I will repeat them, or perhaps we will learn them on the budget committee or perhaps subsequently at the House meeting. I'll see. I found these 22 questions and 22 answers to them. I was intrigued by the first one. There's talk of those incriminate koruna bonds and their taxation. I'm just saying, if it's being said, let the public know. It's about 90 miles. non-taxed revenue per year. If you count it, citizens, it's 250 grand. tax-free income per day. Just so we know what we're talking about. I have submitted, as Vice Prime Minister Babiš has proposed, an amendment to prevent these koruna bonds from being taxed further. It's the House Press 1074. And Mr. Vice Prime Minister Babiš made a similar proposal earlier, which is number 1058. The difference between the two is that the first government supported the minister of Babiš, not mine. At the same time, the only difference between them is that I suggest that those koruna bonds be taxed even if they are not only bought, bought or paid for by whoever bought them, as you heard the word shootout here today, but who also transferred them to those related and close. So it's more consistent, it's more stringent with my proposal. The strange thing is that the government is rejecting this. Well, let's see how this is going to be voted on, because I'm sure I'm going to propose this on the agenda of the May meeting to deal with it. And the interesting thing is that the absent Prime Minister, who has such a problem with Mr. Vice Prime Minister Babiš's actions and this crown bond case, says that the Chamber of Deputies can't make it. For your information, both of these proposals are proposed in a short-term procedure under § 90 para. 2 and there is nothing to prevent this Chamber of Deputies from discussing and approving this. If no one submits the veto - we will see who is interested in keeping the current situation - so there is no way that this Chamber of Depressed Party and the other Party will support this, so that we can get it on the House's agenda and that the period will end when the koruna bonds will not continue to be taxed. There is nothing to prevent the Chamber of Deputies from discussing this. And I am very curious about the vote of the ČSSD MP. Plus the koruna bonds. It was said here, I think it was remembered by colleague Stanjura, that Mr. Vice Prime Minister Babiš - I will use his vocabulary terminology - was valid in three amounts, and those last ones were paid as an MP and as a minister. So he obviously knew that this trick was there. I absolutely reject any of his comments that they are responsible or that his tax advisors or other advisors are responsible. She's a physical person. Every businessman is responsible for everything. If his accountant doesn't send a check report, the dealer gets a fine of 50 grand. The crown - what the Minister has put forward. So don't let him deny it wasn't his fault. He's fully responsible, and it doesn't matter if any tax advisors did it. After all, without his signature, I don't think it would have been possible. He's fully responsible for this. And I ask why the amendment - which is why I was talking about the figures of the House press 1058 - was only now, at the end of March I believe this year. Why, if there was a hole in the law, didn't he do it before? Because his answer to the first question is - I have to find it: Tax law counts directly on such financing. It limits the related debt to four times the capital and requires market interest. Both conditions of Agrofert met. That's the facts, and it's not illegal. - If it was nothing illegal and it was perfectly okay, as the minister answered the first complicated delivery, or rather the undelivered question finally answered, then I ask, if it was all okay, the absent Prime Minister, why did he give an amendment to the law to end this situation, when this hole exists in the law. And don't let my opponents get mad at me, and I'm asking the same question as why the former finance minister didn't do it when he knew about it. He was here talking about the fact that it was no longer possible to issue these bonds in 2013, but the fact that there was a hole in the law where their revenues were not taxed remains. That's what the previous finance minister knew. And he wasn't. Here we see, as I say, one for eighteen, the other without two for twenty. This is what I said, that far from now, there are only bad things on the political stage and in our legislative system, but they were before. I am now benefiting from my position as an independent non-attached Member, I am neither one side nor the other side, and this gives me the possibility of an independent perspective and to say things as they are, whether they like it or not, to one side or the other. These are the facts. Next, question and answer 15. There was a question about Romney and IMOBA. Mr. Vice Prime Minister Babiš bravely replied that he had no ownership relationship with Romneya. And what about the IMOBA? I'm asking. Why wasn't the answer given to this question? Dear colleagues, thank you for your attention. I was trying to say here that this thing is far from black and white. And no way, I'm joining my previous speakers, I can't approve of the illegal wiretaps that got out. But by the time they got to God's light, I'd really like to know the answers to what was said in them. Personally, I think that there was some provocation, especially when I heard the last one, where the journalist in question was mainly speaking, and Vice Prime Minister Babiš was rather bravely involved in this, not even in dialogue. In any case, however, the question remains why he absolutely did not reject this and why at that time he did not radically reject the fact that copies of the open file were allegedly being submitted to him. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u13	I thank Mr Fiedler. I have two factual points here, and then Vice-President Filip's priority right. First of all, Mr Josef Hájek and his point of fact, followed by a colleague Michal Kučera with a factual remark. Please, colleague.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u14	Mr President, colleagues, you know that for about eight months I have devoted myself intensively to a point called a disadvantageous privatisation, or to information from the government on a disadvantageous privatisation of OKD. In that context, I wanted to address the Prime Minister several times. Unfortunately, he's not here today either. Of course, when I was working on this case - the House decided by its resolution that it was indeed a disadvantageous privatisation - I got a number of materials in my hand. And one of these materials was an e-mail, so please listen to me, which Mr. Ivan Přikryl sent to the Prime Minister on 20 December 2015. That means two months before he started communicating with Mr. Babiš. So the question is, how did colleague Fiedler ask here: Is it staged or not? It fits my context now, because it says in the e-mail, unfortunately there are quotes here, so with a heavy heart I will also quote from this e-mail: Dear Prime Minister, for your time utilization and also because I am leaving outside the Czech Republic for a week, I want to inform you that I have done the actions in the case of OKD according to our interview, as we talked about them. [[with emphasis, to say the following:]] And so on. I had the opportunity to look into the file, with an apology, to be appalled at the legal inaccuracies of the prosecution's arguments, for example, the course of time is not an important factor for the Police of the Czech Republic and the prosecutor and blames people for the actions that someone else has done much earlier and so on. So please, if you use common sense, and I use it very often, 20 December 2015 the Prime Minister communicates with the Prime Minister, and two months later the Prime Minister is approached by this journalist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u15	Thank you. Mr Kučera is not interested in a factual comment. With priority rights, Vice-President Filip, after whom the Minister of Health has priority rights. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u16	Thank you. Mr President, Members of the Government, Mrs and gentlemen, let me briefly comment on today's item. Why we supported the programme, before the beginning of the meeting, Pavel Kováčik, President of our club, explained that at least the Chamber of Deputies should not be pleased if the highest constitutional officials are saying anything through press conferences, media and so on. I hope no one denies that there's a crisis. So let me think about what the Supreme Legislative Body, the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, has to do with such a crisis, not in a presidential or other system, but in a system of parliamentary democracy. I will start in general before I comment on who is involved in the crisis and what is the constitutional solution. I don't want to keep you for too long, but I still think it is necessary for us to formulate certain things in a clear way and not find ourselves in a position to replace another constitutional body of the other power of the Czech Republic, for example, by our courts that we will replace the judicial system, or that we will get involved in executive matters, so we need to be clear about what position we are in. Allow me a little reminder of our constitutional responsibilities and the boundaries in which we are moving. The purpose of political activity is to maintain or gain power in the state, or rule. The law, in particular constitutional law, should regulate this activity by its rules. When we talk about a political crisis, it happens either by disrespecting the rules or simply because there are no rules. There are rules of conduct in the Czech Republic. The disputes between the President and the Prime Minister about the resignation of a member of the government are, I would say, traditional in the Czech constitutional system after 1992. None of the Czech presidents avoided them, and those who were Prime Ministers earlier complained about how the President mistreated them, and those who then became presidents of the Prime Minister complained about how the Prime Minister failed to prepare any demise. First, then, Article 74 of the Constitution itself. The President of the Republic shall withdraw a member of the Government if the Prime Minister so proposes. The article does not say that the President is obliged to appeal or that a period has been set for him. And in this respect, I must say that it is clear that if there was something else and, for example, this was the mandatory provision of the Constitution of the Czech Republic, there would probably be another subject of dispute between the current political parties that form a coalition. I note that not only in my opinion, but in the opinion of many people, whether citizens of the Czech Republic who are without any political involvement, or political scientists, or even between politicians, it is clear that the coalition government of social democracy, the ANO movement and the KDU-ČSL movement has exhausted its agreement on the elimination of evil committed here by the right-wing government from 2006 to 2013. But let's get back to the ústava. All those who see the rule in Article 74 are right. But like I said, it's not a rule that's legit, that is, ordering the president to comply immediately. He's dispositive. This rule means that the President must respect it, but it may be possible for him to do so much later and in a way that he considers appropriate. The rule in this Constitution is now accompanied by a hysterical media campaign against everyone. The result is not only a political crisis. The government has been here a long time, which we pointed out in January this year. But it's a crisis and a constitutional one. So we can choose which crisis we will be dealing with. If we ask the sine ira et studio, i.e. without resentment and interest, the question "is the President, according to the Constitution of the Czech Republic, entitled to delay or at all refuse the appeal of the Minister of Finance Babiš?"so we must answer ourselves again with the text of the Constitution, and this time we will also help each other with a per analogy by finding the Constitutional Court. I'll start with the Prime Minister. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1 The Prime Minister shall organise the Under this, it can be understood, in particular, that it corresponds to the Chamber of Deputies, that it organises the government's activities in such a way as to carry out its duties, programme and tasks, and also that it has chosen the right personalities to do so in the capacity of its members. Otherwise, the House may voice distrust to the government, and the President will call it off immediately. There's no dispositive standard. There is a mandatory provision because we are in parliamentary democracy. And now to the members of the government. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1 makes a vow in the hands of the President, from whose contents in the second paragraph we must be impressed at the subject of today's meeting, in particular, that a member of the Government promises to hold office conscientiously and not to abuse his position. The following Article 70 continues: A member of the Government shall not engage in activities the nature of which contradicts the performance of his duties. Details are laid down in the law. It's the Margo of what the Attorney General said. [[15.50 hours]] But let me continue. Should a member of the Government fail to fulfil or violate his constitutional promise, his activity would be contrary to a law which provides for activities which he may not carry out, it is up to the Prime Minister to assess whether this does not complicate his obligation under Article 77 (2) of the Treaty. 1. If so, he will propose to the President that he call him off, as permitted by Article 74. And now, I dare say, to the very role of the President. Not only in the case of a motion to appeal a member of the government by the Prime Minister, but in the constitutional system of the Czech Republic at all, especially according to Article 54 (1). 3 The President is not constitutionally responsible for the performance of his duties, which also means that he is not responsible or the authority represented by the Constitutional Court. On this point we have the case-law, and I would like to mention that. The President's duties are laid down by constitutionalists, not by the Constitutional Court. It is precisely a statement that I would like to remind you that the President is to proceed without undue delay. In this context, we have one experience in the Czech Republic that is worth recalling. It was created in connection with the procedure for the compliance of the Treaty of Lisbon with the Czech constitutional order. At that time, a bit of Eurohujer lawmakers from the Senate sued the then president Václav Klaus. The complaint was unsuccessful. And I would like to remind you that we are also hearing from the Senate today about the need to file a constitutional complaint against the President. This is just an expression of the Senate's inability to accept that power is divided between legislative, executive and judicial power. I do not want to talk about media power because it cannot be part of public power because it has no public legitimacy, because no one is voting for it, does not control it, and its time dimension is not limited. I'll get back to the Constitutional Court. In fact, President Václav Klaus defended himself by having one obligation in his promise as enshrined in Article 59 (1) of the Treaty. 2. I quote: "I pledge my allegiance to the Czech Republic to uphold its Constitution and laws that I will uphold my office in the interests of all the people." Yes, the president has a duty to uphold the Constitution and laws. At that time, it was Article 63 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Article 4 (1) (a) (b) the President ratifying international treaties. And this is where the doubt arose a little ridiculous today, because we can talk about the fate of the Lisbon Treaty after brexit for quite a long time. So let me remind you that we will find three responsibilities in the presidential promise. One of them is to maintain the Constitution. At that time, it concerned the ratification of the international treaty, as I said, in Article 63. The second is against the Czech Republic. And the third is the duty to hold the presidency for the sake of all the people. Václav Klaus stepped forward to ratification when the Constitutional Court found that accepting the Treaty of Lisbon would not violate the promise of the President of allegiance to the Czech Republic and the interests of all the people. If he acted without undue delay and ratified the Treaty of Lisbon, he would immediately be guilty of ratification by both chambers with those who voted in favour of it in the House and the Senate. By far, it wasn't all of them. This remains the historical responsibility of the Constitutional Court, which did not find that its provisions allowing the European Union to order anything to a Member State are contrary to the Constitution which declares it sovereign. And about the sovereignty of the citizens of the Czech Republic, about the sovereignty of the state we should also talk about. The Presidentprezidentův task of withdrawing a member of the Government is formulated in Article 74 in terms of its implementation as dispositive. I would remind you that it does not provide for an imperative or a deadline for its application. This creates room for the President of the Republic to take into account in its procedure the obligations to which he has undertaken his constitutional vows, which means that when he receives the Prime Minister's motion to appeal a member of the Government, he may first examine whether the Prime Minister's proposal to appeal a member of the Government could not be against the interests of the people, so as not to break his presidential promise. This may sound abstract for many of you, but what if a particular member of the government objects to foreign power or is on the side of those who consistently defend the interests of the Czech Republic, and the Prime Minister is thus retreating from outside pressure? Are we able to realize this when we are discussing a point that seems to me from the point of view of constitutionality and the current crisis a little outside the scope of the current negotiations? What further developments can be expected? Yes, we can argue here for a long time, there will be a long discussion. I'm limited in time because I'm going to have to perform other duties, so I'm going to cut the conclusion. It bothers me that none of the presidents of the coalition political parties are here. It really bothers me! We're talking about the three of them not being able to deal with each other, and neither of them are sitting here. Where were we? Are we still in the parliamentary system, or are we in a system of power that is stolen entirely from citizens of the Czech Republic? What constitutional solution would allow the Czech Republic to continue to be a respected sovereign state that is part of the family of European states? I deliberately do not say the European Union. I'll tell you. If the Chamber of Deputies is to fulfil its responsibilities and responsibilities as not only the legislature, but as a body that is entitled to control the government's activities, there is nothing left but to propose, given the responsibility towards this House, the leaders of the coalition parties feel, to call on the government to resign as a whole. It probably won't, although we have seen it since at least January and openly last week, that they are no longer able to deal with each other. Let us do so by order of the Chamber of Deputies that the government does not have the confidence of this legislature. The relevant document under the Constitution of the Czech Republic and the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies is prepared by the President of our MP's club on his desk and you can sign it. It is a call for a meeting of the Chamber of Deputies on the distrust of the Government of the Czech Republic. If there are at least 50 brave Members who sign such a bill, we will be discussing a distrust speech at the latest next week. And then it is up to us and we will bear our own responsibility before the citizens of the Czech Republic, if we have acted, forgive me, as politicians and politicians, or as statesmen who are responsible for standing before their citizens. I repeat to you once again, the relevant signing document on the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies on the distrust of the Government of the Czech Republic is prepared on the table of the President of the KSČM parliamentary club. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u17	I thank the Vice-President. With a factual remark, Mr Štěpán Stupčuk. Please, Mr. Ambassador. The Minister of Health will be ready. Your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u18	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, fellow Members, I would like to comment on what my previous speaker, President Filip, said. I want to consistently reject the claim that the Constitution, virtually. Article 74 was of any dispositive nature. Dispositiveness is characteristic of standards of a private nature, e.g. Civil code. The Constitution constitutes a public legal standard of the highest legal force and there is no dispositive provision in it. We could tear the Constitution apart. It is simply not possible to treat the interpretation of the Constitution in this way. Article 74 is clear. He says under what conditions the President of the Republic withdraws a member of the government. And that's when the Prime Minister suggests it. If the Prime Minister proposes, the President withdraws. That's a sentence. There is no room for any other interpretation. Of course, we can interpret the Constitution grammatically, systematically, extensively, restrictively, but these are methods of interpretation. However, all methods of interpretation made by constitutional officials should be carried out in accordance with the constitutional promise that we have made, and that is to maintain the Constitution, i.e. that we actively act to fulfill the spirit of the Constitution and its content, and not to expand or narrow it down with interpretation and interpretation. So that's the first duty we all have. So I would like to turn against such an interpretation that there are dispositive parts of the Constitution. It's not true, and I appeal to everyone to maintain the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u19	Two more factual points. Vice-President Filip and Chairman Kováčik. Please, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u20	Thank you, Mr President. I'm not going to have a legal dispute here, I'm just quoting from what the Constitutional Court said. And the difference, of course, is the huge difference between the fact that the President's obligation to accept resignation is due to the fact that the Chamber of Deputies is in distrust of the Government of the Czech Republic, when the Government in resignation or the Government of the Czech Republic ends its term of office and is elected President of the Chamber of Deputies, and the Government is morally obliged to resign and the President is morally obliged to accept the resignation. And there are only three reasons for accepting the resignation. So please, let's not have this argument. I'm just saying, I've been quoting the Constitutional Court's finding on purpose so that we can forgive ourselves for those, I'd say, party-specific wordings that have been appearing here for a week.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u21	Thank you. With a point of fact, President Kováčik, after whom Mr Stupčuk. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u22	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I merely specify the words of President Filip that the relevant instrument for calling a meeting to voice distrust to the government is available on my desk and will still be there at the beginning of next week when the next meeting of the Chamber of Deputies begins. We're absolutely serious that we've exhausted all options. From this place, I said that we wanted to hear from the Prime Minister and Vice Prime Minister, among whom the dispute burns the most, what they want to do to produce something else for the elections that will be held in October, the Czech Republic's government, at least something for citizens, has produced. They continue to attack and attack each other, and the culmination is that both the Prime Minister and the Vice Prime Minister and, perhaps, the Minister of the Interior, to whom this might also concern, have left this meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I am therefore making a motion at the moment to interrupt the House of Deputies until the Prime Minister, Vice Prime Minister Babiš, Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek, is present in the Chamber of Deputies as the three presidents of the coalition parties, plus the Minister of the Interior. I would like to say that I would still like to see Mr Šincl's speech, and I would like to vote on my proposal after his speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u23	After his performance. You will wait a little longer, because first of all, Mr Stupčuk, Mr Blažek, followed by Mr Blažek, the Minister of Health, and then Mr Šincl. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u24	Just a little while longer. I just want to add to the discussion - there is really no debate here about which provisions of the Constitution are mandatory or dispositive. Of course, they're all legit, fixed rules that can't be deviated from. The only thing left at the moment and what is possible to think about, and we should ask ourselves whether there are legitimate reasons at this time for the President's failure to act immediately. The deadline is not really given there, it is not given on purpose, but if the deadline is not given there, then it is valid, and there is a uniform interpretation of constitutional lawyers and the Constitutional Court, that it should do so by the constitutional officer who is obliged at the moment to implement the Constitution without undue delay. That means, at this point, it is necessary to ask why the President is not acting, whether the reasons are legitimate and whether the request is actually being met here to act without undue delay or not. So I'm asking you what the reasons the President of the Republic isn't doing right now are. Because otherwise he doesn't do it without delay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u25	Thank you. With a factual remark, the last Mr Blažek so far. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u26	Hello. I'm just talking about the legal debate that Mr. Filip here said. He was right in quoting the findings of the Constitutional Court, but there are also many judicial decisions, not only the Constitutional Court, which always say that every state authority's decision must be predictable according to what the legislation is. And the problem is that President Zeman's decision is not predictable. This is what we saw in the awkward scene at Prague Castle, where the Prime Minister didn't expect, or couldn't predict, how the President would decide, or, of course, this is the problem. So let's not just quote some interpretations of the Constitution, but also this. And it should be about us being able to predict at least how the President will decide - not on names, but on what legal way it will come to that. And no one knows that, and that's the problem.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u27	With a point of fact, Mr Fiedler. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u28	I'll respond to both previous speakers. I fully understand what President Kováčik said about the presence of the persons concerned, that they should be in this hall and that they should be present at this meeting, as well as my previous speaker. I'm looking at the Internet, the President has called a meeting of the presidents of the coalition parties right now. The truly predictableness of his steps is becoming less and less. So, if those interested parties are to be in this hall at the same time, and the President of the Republic is calling a meeting, Prime Minister Sobotka, as I read, has probably learned about this when he was already on a plane to Luxembourg, it is really up to him to see if these leaders of the most concerned parties can be present when the President calls them to Liberec. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u29	I thank Mr Fiedler. With a point of fact, Mr Zlatuška. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u30	Mr President, when I hear the debate on demise, has anyone seen the demise given by the Prime Minister to the President to be presented? I've heard a lot from the media about the Prime Minister's demise. That almost seemed like a public promise. At one point, it seemed like he was giving the demise verbally. And then nothing. Then yesterday I heard the interpretations that she resigned to the Minister of Education. It then said that it would not be served until the end of May, which I understood was no demise, but it is referred to as a given demise. And while I may have a number of reservations about how the President has fulfilled his duties in the appointment of professors, it seems to me that the basis of what is being discussed here is purely media news, or as they say outside this room, a lady has spoken. [[16.10 hours]] The emotions are nice, but some basis for the dose - I'm not a psychiatrist, but it seems to me like a simple hysteria that sounds here - it would be good to have some basis for that. For example, did the prime minister complain that the president was somehow ignoring him, or did we just get all this from the media? There was some formal complaint from the Prime Minister -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u31	Mr. Ambassador, your time has passed for a point of fact. Thank you. There is still a point in fact, I apologise to Minister Ludvík, Mrs Němcová and Mr Laudát. Now, therefore, Mrs Miroslava Němcová's factual comment. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u32	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, this point, which has been approved as the only item in this extraordinary meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, is called Abuse of the power of the Minister of Finance, Andrej Babiš, against independent institutions of democratic society. I understand that it is part of a wider discussion, but I think that we should get back to the essential and not let what I feel as the purpose of this debate smear it so that no one understands it at all. We are to discuss whether Andrej Babiš is a security risk to the Czech Republic. Whether it is conceivable for him to remain a member of the rule of a democratic country. I ask that we return to this subject. At the same time, if we have information here that the President is calling the leaders of the coalition parties somewhere in Liberec, I am convinced that we, as the Chamber of Deputies, have the task of controlling the government, and no one can take it out of it, are to continue our negotiations today, because that is why we have also come together today to offer some conclusion to the citizens of the Czech Republic and to move forward the unfortunate situation in which we have found ourselves to have a meaningful solution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u33	Thank you, Mrs Němcová, for keeping time. The colleague checked out, so now with priority rights the Minister of Health Miloslav Ludvík. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u34	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I, as an outcast, always thought that if I was to perform here, it would only be in the role of the Minister of Health if I passed my laws and defended them. Unfortunately, I have to take this opportunity to comment on the record -- on the second and third records of the Julius Šuman group, or if it's an individual, I don't know where my name appeared several times. It literally tells us that there's a compress on Ludvík, and there's talk of the Hradec policemen doing it, and there's talk of three billion. And basically, it means that I've probably enriched myself by three billion, which is probably the craziest information for my wife because she doesn't know about the money. Yes. [[Laughter.]] So at this point, I'd like to set the situation straight a little bit. And there is one more important piece of information that needs to be said. In fact, I became Minister of Health effectively on December 1st. This date is extremely important, because sometime around 20 October, the National Centre for the Fight against Organised Crime has really turned to Motol University Hospital with the fact that it is investigating a rather serious crime - Section 8 para. 1 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, abuse of authority by a public official - and investigates one major contract. And she turned to Motol University Hospital with the fact that according to the Public Procurement Register, the only similarly large contract in a similar business - I signed confidentiality, so I can't specify exactly what it is - is a contract for reconstruction of the hospital. So they asked for background on how the contract was made. Reconstruction contract Motola was a government contract, government commission decided there etc. etc. By the way, the contract was examined by the Supreme Audit Office in 2012 for six months and found it faultless. So the cops turned to me. When I spoke to the investigator, I asked him if he really wanted the whole volume of documentation. He said he did. And I told him it was about three cc's. That scared him, so then they only asked for certain parts that we copied. And since there were about 40 people working at the hospital - the investment department, the public contracts, the lawyers - it was probably this way that Mr. Exreditor Přibil got information that the police were asking for something from Motol. However, the result is that he is not an investigated hospital at Motol University Hospital, he is not an investigated person Miloslav Ludvík, its then director. The person under investigation and the institution under investigation is someone completely different. And here I'm fascinated by the fact that basically we were supposed to hand over something like a demonstration or as part of a good practice to get the cops in on it, and somebody wants to make it a compromise. The cops are investigating three billion in Motola. It's not true! The cops are investigating a contract for probably - I can't talk, but just for a little bit less money somewhere else. The truth is, it's Hradec, the truth is, it's the National Centre for the Fight against Organized Crime. And I may have said too much already, that's true. However, I have always thought that journalists, and in this country it should still be a good practice, each report being verified from two independent sources. Well, it's not like that. But why not? And then the normal person... So I've got my front page rented in the Mladá fronta, and I'm there once a month, and I've gotten used to it, but it just doesn't stop surprising me how they make or make cases in this country. This one's gonna make a case. The finals are what? Nothing. If I was blond and sat a little bit west, I'd call it typical fake news. But I feel this way, and I'm sorry to be here, feeling a little obliged to defend myself first, and secondly, to say that this kind of information trading is terrible, and I'm almost sorry that I won't meet the editor alone somewhere. I think we really have something to talk about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u35	Thank you, Minister Miloslav Ludvík. Now, Mr Ladislav Šincl, in a proper application for a debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are dealing with the case of recordings which have been captured, how Andrej Babiš is tasking his journalist, and how he has purposefully planned to use the information he has obtained illegally from a live police file. It seems that Czech politics has fallen to the very bottom. I would like to remind you that this is not unique in the case of Mr Andrej Babiš. And it's quite common for Mr. Babiš to collect information on his opponents, and if he doesn't find anything to compromise them, he doesn't hesitate to invent the information he needs. I myself am living proof of this, for in the past I have been the victim of an undignified slanderous campaign in which Mr Babiš bent the truth in a way that he could just use. Let me remind you that here today, Andrej Babiš said: "Have you ever heard me threaten anyone? He lied again! Yes, he threatened me. It was on 17. 6. 2015 at the meeting of the Working Coalition Group in the presence of the President and Members of the Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies, as well as other Members and officials of the Ministry of Finance of the Czech Republic, on the amendment of the Ministry of Finance to the press 415. There were about 14 Witnesses. This meeting took place in the building of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, right under this room in room 56. Here Andrej Babiš threatened me in front of all those present and tried to intimidate me. In this room in front of many witnesses, he falsely accused me, and even accused my wife of corruption. What's more, he even accused my mother, my 73-year-old mom, an ordinary retiree who had no idea that there was an Andrej Babiš, and who had never and never had anything to do with politics. He proved his lies with documents stored in records marked by my name, which he had made. Not a single charge made here has ever proved how common it is with Andrej Babiš. I could bury you here today with all the lies that Mr. Andrej Babiš used on me at the time and afterwards. Anyway, I'm not gonna hold you up, and I'm not gonna remind you of these things. [[16.20 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am living proof of the immoral way that Andrej Babiš degenerates his opponents. Therefore, I myself did not hesitate a second about the truthfulness of recorded talks with the journalist of the Young Front today. I have a personal experience with a person for whom there is no truth and honor to the values he acknowledges. He has proved repeatedly that he will do anything for his power interests, even if it is beyond the law. Such a person does not belong in this government or in any of the next ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u37	Thank you, Mr Šincl. Mr. Jiří Zlatuška, now with a factual remark. A colleague of mine, Černochová, will be ready. [[Comments from the hall that Mr Kováčik's proposal should be voted on.]] Sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u38	I listened to Mr Šincl about what he said. As accused of him, his wife, his mother. And I took it from it that if he were ever to be appointed to a government position, he had to resign before he went there, because the whole family was charged. Roughly in the logic that when some unauthorized clips appear, someone else should leave because of it. Mr Šincl did not mention any of what he claimed to be a threat. It was a claim against a claim at best if he referred to something that he thought was a lie. But in any case, he used a reference to what was clearly not in those recordings. It seems to me that this review of the clips, the tapes never heard, because only unauthorized clips from them are heard. The devil knows whether they're even credible or to what extent consistent. But with regard to what was said there, the evaluation of what it sounds like is more indicative of the auditory or readable literacy of the reviewers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u39	Thank you. I apologize for taking over the meeting management, so I forgot the procedural proposal that fell from the President of the MP Pavel Kováčik. I was reminded by the rapporteur and colleague Petr Gazdík, which is why I have to give it now... Of course, with priority... [[This is Mrs Cernochová coming to the rhetorical site.]] I can't, I can't, Madam. Your club president is here. So I'm sorry, but I really can't even make a de facto comment from my colleague Votava anymore. I can't even make your point of order. I have no choice but to deal with the procedural proposal. Prior to that, the chairman of the ODS Club with priority rights. Once again, I apologise to the House for not having this procedural proposal voted immediately after the end of Mr Šincl's speech. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u40	It happens to everyone that they're wrong or there's no way to vote at the right time in that atmosphere. But I think that Mr. Zlatuška's speech was so outrageous that we could respond to it, those who want it before the vote, that otherwise it may be that the meeting will be adjourned. I'll be against it. But it's really an outrage that's been said here. Outrageous! He wants proof of it when it was before the Members of the Budget Committee. So ask those Members who were there, both your President, whom you are defending here! I know you're fighting for a place on the list that they don't want you anywhere, and you think you're gonna fight for it. But not like this! The lady is over 70 years old - [[Let's hear it from the left.]] You're laughing at it. Well, you can laugh about it. You're just proving your character that you don't give a damn that someone's dehonesting a retired woman because her son took the liberty of disagreeing with the Treasury Secretary. And he's out of line! At least, according to Mr. Zlatuška.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u41	There. Please. I can't allow another performance. We will deal with Mr Pavel Kováčik's procedural proposal to interrupt the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies on this point in the presence of the presidents of coalition political parties, okay? And the Home Secretary, who is directly involved in this one matter. I'll check you all out. I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. I will rejoin and wait for the number of applicants to settle because this is a serious procedural vote, and some of my colleagues, of course, left with the number of applicants. I'll wait a little longer. I'm gonna reengage. [[He's waiting for a while.]] The rapporteur is checking me if I'm making the right suggestion. This means that we are interrupting the meeting on this point to the presence of the presidents of the coalition political parties, in the voting order number 3, which I have launched, and I am asking who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 3 of the 132 present, for 63, against 62. The motion was not accepted. We will therefore continue, first of all, to speak with the factual remark of Mr Václav Votava, then Mrs Černochová. So you've been logged in to actual notes. A colleague of Holík will be ready. That would be the third point of fact. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, to the actual... [[Noise in the hall.]] Before I give you my word, I will ask the House for peace! If you are discussing matters other than the point of this extraordinary 58th meeting, please, in the foyer. I'm asking you to bear with me, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Václav Votava, my colleague, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u42	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President, colleagues. Well, I was surprised to hear what my colleague Zlatuška said. Mr Zlatuška, through Mr President, I really consider it an outrage that you have said here. Outrageous! I, unlike you, was at the meeting. I was there as chairman of the budget committee. I wasn't alone. There were about 14 Members, as well as members of the Committee on Budgets. And I was completely shocked by what I saw there, what happened! When Minister Babiš pulled the file that said Šincl and began reading from the file. And mostly that... and I believe what Mr. Šincl says, things have been designed, lies. I've never met here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies that something like this would happen. We have been here in the last parliamentary term and in the other previous parliamentary periods of hard fighting between the left, the right, with the government, with the opposition possibly. But I've never heard or I've never known any of them, any of them just pulled a file and started reading from some file on some defensive stuff like that. My colleague, you should be ashamed of what you said!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u43	I thank Mr Votav. Now, Mrs Černochová, and a colleague of mine, Zlatuška, will be prepared. Not anymore. Thank you. So only my colleague Zlatuška remained in the factual notes. Otherwise, we have Mrs Černochová as the first to sign up in a proper debate. You have the floor on a point of fact, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u44	Well, I won't be ashamed. Only when you judge something, through the President, Mr colleague, should you say, not that it is true, but that Mr Šincl said it and that you believe it. Mr Šincl began to mention his family here and began to mention it without giving or documenting anything. And otherwise, if the committee's previous negotiations were unsubstantiated, that's good, but it doesn't say much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u45	Thank you. We can now continue the proper debate, and this is Mrs Jana Černochová, duly signed up. Madam, may I read some more apologies? [[Agreed.]] Thank you. Mrs Helena Válková apologizes from 16 a.m. to the end of the day, Mr Okleštěk for reasons of work and the Minister of the Interior Milan Chovanec apologizes. A real comment by my colleague Šincl. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, I really didn't want to overwhelm you with the lying information that Minister Andrej Babiš has been spreading about me. Of course, I have the evidence, Mr Member, through the President, Mr Mr Mr Zlatuška, here physically. Mr Babiš, for example, claimed that I had been fired from my job as a bank for some unfair practices. I have, of course, evidence here that I myself abandoned this job to become the manager of a subsidiary of the same bank. So this is exactly what I have here. I have all the evidence that Mr. Andrej Babiš really is a seven-year-old liar. That's just the way it is. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u47	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Roman Sklenák, President of the Social Democracy Club, now with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u48	Thank you for the floor. I apologize to my colleague Černochová and all duly registered. But right now, I feel like it's time for me to take advantage of my priority right. You know what? What has been said here by colleagues from the YES movement was so much untrue, so many lies, and if we were to respond to each one, this meeting will be very long indeed. But at this point - I'm sorry to read it from my phone - I'd like to read one e-mail that I just received and which is also responding to what was said here. It's from Dr. Ivan Přikryl, whom you may know and whose name was mentioned here. Then let me read his reaction: "Mr President, I am not currently in the Czech Republic, but abroad. I closely follow the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies on ČT 24, and I hear that someone has read an e-mail, a comment by a Member to me as a journalist, writing to the Prime Minister that I have looked into the file in the case of criminal proceedings before the court with Mr. expert Doucha. I am not a journalist, but a party expert, who since 2005, then under the authority of Prime Minister Paroubek, has long been engaged in analysis of the case of OKD with an accent on the issue of OKD flats, which I did until 2010. When the case began to be discussed, a body of advisers at the Office of the Government asked me to try to reconstruct and analyse the entire case, according to publicly available materials and opinions submitted by the European Commission. I have also done this and have repeatedly published the material publicly. Based on this publication in the media, in blogs and my personal pages, I was contacted by Mr Doucha. There's no law against me hearing this gentleman's opinion. He gave me an opinion that, as he said, was part of the case file. He put it there, and I am talking about this assessment. I'm a lawyer, not a journalist, a former civil servant with to this day a valid security clearance to a level secret. I am well aware of my credentials, and I have always, even at a time as head of the Office of the Government, rejected everyone in the quotation marks of information carriers and lobbyists who tried to influence constitutional agents. Some of them are also direct actors in today's negotiations. They are therefore opposed to this accusation. New York, 10. Five, ten hours local time. JUDr. Ivan Přikryl." So I thought it would be useful to read here in order to take a picture of how the facts are being manipulated here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u49	Thank you, Mr Roman Sklenák. Mrs Jana Černochová, who is now duly applied for. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u50	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, as it was clear a little while ago, the bow tie doesn't always mean nobleness. Unfortunately, in this hall with some colleagues, it brings with it the ultimate expression of redneck, which is also quite unprecedented in this Chamber of Deputies during this parliamentary term. I think and would like to advise my colleagues in the YES movement whether they would like to rename themselves before the elections, whether they would like to be a movement called SM - a movement that is a sect of masochists. Because what you're doing here, my dear colleagues and colleagues, is truly unprecedented. When I saw yesterday in the Events, comments from my colleague, through the Vice-President, the absent Válková, defending the presumption of innocence - yes, the former Minister of Justice, who, on the basis of false rumors and slander, called off the Director of the Prison Service of General Dohnal. This appeal caught up with her in the form of a court ruling, when Minister Pelikán of Mr. General Dohnal had to return to his position, and I am glad for that. So this member of the ANO movement has a full mouth of presumption of innocence and preaches morale to us. The masochism I've been talking about, coworkers and colleagues, that's what you read every day in the paper. I'm sure you have the general monitoring. The Minister of Defence is Stropnický here, but if he does not mind that his boss and chairman of your movement refer to him as a weakling who does not have it, or with all due respect to Martin Komárek through the Vice-President, whom the chairman of the ANO movement speaks of as a pi-, you will think the rest of it yourself, or other colleagues are m-, you will complete the rest yourself, President Zeman has it for work and other pearls. Is that okay with you? Aren't you ashamed? Isn't it embarrassing that you have to read something like that about yourself every day in the media? You're not gonna stand up to your boss at your party club and say, "That's enough, let's get some pure wine and let's say who, dear Andrea, after the election, you're counting on who you don't count on"? Because the half-life you're at is obvious here too. Already Mr Telička, as my colleague Adamová Pekarová spoke about it, he understood. Maybe you'll get bigger. You know, when my colleague Faltýnek here, through the Vice-President, talked about how he gets a lot of emails and support texts and MMS and I don't know everything, I think that on the other hand, those of us who we are, we also get a lot of emails. And I'm really sorry that I don't have Miss Arizona's friends, like my YES movement, who wrote Moooc's beautiful support status to Mr. Babiš about how much he's been rooting for Brno. Please, Miss Arizona, pretty woman, look at her. But you know what? Members of the KSČM have already spoken about this, and I must give them the truth, even though I voted against the interruption of this meeting, because I think that the fact that the President called a meeting of the presidents of coalition parties for today in Liberec at 7:30 p.m. is not a coincidence. The President doesn't want us to vote on anything today, just as Mr. Babiš doesn't want it, who disappeared when the program was approved. Unfortunately, colleagues from the ČSSD, to be fair, Prime Minister Sobotka disappeared, although he is excused. But don't be mad at me when we filed a motion for this meeting, so you, through the President of the Chamber of Deputies, have set a date and a time, and just the Prime Minister should have sat here and discussed with us and listened to what is being said here, as well as the Minister of the Interior Chovanec and the one to whom it is most relevant, that is, Mr Andrej Babiš. As far as the criminal reports are concerned, a number of my previous speakers have already said that the Minister of Finance and the Vice Prime Minister have allegedly filed a criminal complaint. We don't know what he filed a criminal complaint for. For the illegal use of wiretaps. The readings that were going on in those eavesdroppings. Or if he didn't even turn to the State Security Council to let the Prime Minister or anyone else inform him if he was being watched, bugged, eavesdropped. I wanted to ask Mr. Babiš and the Prime Minister about all this today. [[16.40 hours]] There is also one thing that has not yet been said here, co-workers and colleagues, which makes me very sad, and I think it should be addressed by anyone other than the Prime Minister. You know, when the press conference of Mr. Šlachta, Ištvan about the tons of gold, and I don't know what it's all about, play it sometime, it was also based on wiretaps. I'm comparing maybe - maybe - incomparable. On the other hand, when you realize how the prosecutor's office, police, de facto the arrest took place on a live broadcast of Czech television and other news coverage. How is it possible that there's a recording here for three days that shows that someone has a police file, whether it's the journalist or Mr. Babiš, who he's been giving a copy to, and isn't arrested anywhere? Yes, we would have to meet as the Chamber of Deputies to vote on Mr Andrej Babiš's extradition on his charge of committing a crime. How is it possible that police and prosecutors measure someone else's subway in this case? Does it not seem strange to you, colleagues from the YES movement, when you are almost building a criminal conspiracy, a conspiracy, and everything is a campaign? From the point of view of the way the police and the prosecutors approached the cases involving the previous government, that's really up against what you're going through. And are you surprised that this raises question marks in us as opposition MPs who signed up for this meeting today? And we're asking who will be the police president. Will it really be Mr. Šlachta? I would also like to know the question of how she was asked here by Mr Stanjura, the chairman of our club, what Mr Babiš responded to this offer, who gave him this offer and other things. Why isn't Minister Babiš sitting here? Is that what they're afraid of? Is he afraid of our questions? Why isn't the Prime Minister sitting here? Is he afraid of our questions? You may not have noticed, but I did, but in that wiretap, something has already been quoted here by Mr. Ludvík, who logically defended himself and the passage that concerns him in the wiretap, but I am personally interested in the case of Beretta, because I am a member of the Security Committee, I am a member of the Defence Committee, and I am the Vice-Chair of the Permanent Commission for Control of the General Inspection of the Security Corps. Yes, Beretta is also a weapon, Ivan Adamč. [[He responds to a note from the O.R.]] But here's a gun I don't know who loaded it. And I would like to ask the Prime Minister, because, as we all know here, this case involves, among other things, the fact that proven corrupt police forces should have produced a criminalizing compact on the head of law firm WEIL, GOTSHAL & MANGES, and this law firm represented the Czech Railways against claims - I believe it was Škoda Transportation - yes, the Škoda Transportation, which - the esteemed Mr. absent Prime Minister - is personally represented by Mr. Radek Pokorný. The name is probably known not only to the Social Democrats, but to all of us. So I really want to be objective, I don't just want to criticize Mr. Babiš for not being here. At the same time, I would like an explanation from Prime Minister Sobotka of what he intends to do with this, because this has actually been said on those eavesdroppings, and anyone who has at least any knowledge of the law knows that if this wire is posted somewhere, then this law firm, WEIL, GOTSHAL & MANGES, can significantly damage this law firm. And this law firm also has foreign representation, so it does not only concern the Czech Republic. I would really appreciate it if we could see some explanation in this case in the near future, or an apology that it isn't. And that explanation might well be from whoever says it on that tape, which is Mr. Babiš, or from Prime Minister Sobotka, because it's probably not a public secret that he and Mr. Radek Pokorný have superior relationships. It is also known from public sources that this law firm represented the Czech State, and perhaps if the Minister of Transport was here, he could confirm the content of the litigation. She represented several different ministries, different state institutions, and she was successful. I don't know what happened, who antagonized who, that it is different today, but really here, by not getting a clear explanation from the Prime Minister, or from Mr. Babiš, there is also damage to some name in public space, name as a brand of an entity. And it's not the only case. Some other colleagues here have spoken about the Chamber of Commerce. Of course, it's even worse there, because the Chamber of Commerce is part of our system. Do you realize how this case harms not only this House, it points to the impotence of the various actors of the government coalition, the inability to agree, the measurement of its ego, which, unfortunately, the President is seconding from the background? We're seeing all of this on-line for a week, and unfortunately for a week, God forbid a month, we'll be watching. But here you really are squabbling, your insults, your inability to rule harms not only the Czech Republic, but also the entities that operate in it, not only in the Czech Republic, but also abroad. So, please, I will interpel to the Prime Minister how he intends to speak in these matters, to give us an explanation, because here it really is his authority, which he has under the law of the Czech Republic, and it should be him, who should have provided for an independent investigation into the leak of information by the security, intelligence and other supervisory authorities of the Czech Republic, and, of course, together with the Prime Minister, the Minister of Justice and the Minister of the Interior to participate in this. The Minister of Justice's opinion, when I was talking here about the renaming of the YES movement to SM, a sect of masochists, that's what Mr Pelikán here said, I think we all remembered. Colleagues and colleagues not only from YES, do you really find it perfectly standard for the Minister of Justice to say such a thing on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies? Doesn't look standard to me. [[16.50 hours]] I think that this House really should agree on a deadline for early elections, which, as the Civil Democratic Party proposes, could be in September, with the fact that the taxpayer will not cost a penny more, because September or October in terms of printing tickets and other things really doesn't matter. That wouldn't be the early elections that were still in terms of the cargo, they would go to tens of millions of crowns. This wouldn't really cost a taxpayer, a citizen of the Czech Republic, nothing, and I think we'd all save ourselves the feeling - I don't know if I can say the word here, but I think that's how you almost all feel - the disgusting feeling that's coming at us is sticking, and we're witnessing it. I don't want to witness it. I have asked my colleagues here, I have been in the Chamber of Deputies for more than six years, and I have asked my fellow commemorators who have experienced various falls in various coalitions here, if something like this has happened here. Sunday. Indeed, colleagues and colleagues from YES, you have the first place. I'm gonna hope that's all you have in the first place, and you're not gonna have it in the election.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u51	Thank you, Mrs Černochová. Now two factual points, Mr Jiří Zlatuška and Mr Ivan Adamec. Then Mrs Lorencová, who is duly applied for. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u52	Mr President, Mrs Černochová, here at the outset, accused Vice Prime Minister Babiš of having, according to the clips she listens to - I have not heard them, but I am based on media reports, that this was not the case - that he allegedly had access to secret live volumes according to the recordings. Then she told us here that she was interested in Beretta. I would conclude that he may be interested in doing so, that there is a lively union of Beretta's case in her office. And now that I've said this here and it's being recorded, it's becoming part of the recordings, and somebody cuts it out like that, that sentence that's clearly out of context, because I said it in another way, so I haven't made any hypothesis about what lies in the lady's room. But I would recommend to the MP that she play it repeatedly and then derive roughly the same things that she did here against Mr. Vice Prime Minister. It's gonna make her sleepy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u53	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Mr Adamec with a point of fact and Mrs Černochová also with a point of fact. Okay, Mrs. Černochová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u54	Thank you. I would like to assure your colleague Zlatuška that I have very good sleep, unlike him obviously. And if he's interested in what's in my office in the Chamber of Deputies, he can come and see it. Beretta not the one that was mentioned here by a colleague named Adamec. But perhaps Mr. Zlatušek, in his pompousness and his stupidity and his primitiveism, has missed one very important thing that the case of Beretta, what I said here, has repeatedly been written by the Lidové noviny. Lidové noviny to every family.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u55	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, my colleague Adamec, with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u56	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, I'm not going to pour oil into the fire, which I think is useless. But I wanted to ask you, I understand that the negotiations have been tiring, we've been discussing the same problem for hours. But to be called by your name next time, not by herself. I really don't mind on the bench or anywhere else. I find this very inappropriate here in the House.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u57	Thank you. Of course I'll take it to the control room, all of us. Yes, please address your colleagues only in the middle of the President. One more factual point by Mr Zlatuška, then finally by Mrs Lorencová with a proper application. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u58	I would ask Mr President if, as Lidové Černochová so enthusiastically chanted here, Mr Stanjura, her colleague, had called for Mr Babiš, here earlier in his speech, why he did not ensure that his newspaper did not write on some matters. Well, he didn't make it because he didn't affect them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u59	We are going back to a proper debate. Mrs Jana Lorencová now has the floor, Mr Chalupa will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u60	Mr President, colleagues, after my many years of journalistic practice and how the mafia, or organized crime, actually worked in the state apparatus, I had no idea that one day I would get between an elite that felt to be a moral standard and thought that without a political mandate and a legal framework, he could decide about anyone and anything. The YES movement with President Andrej Babiš was elected by the citizens of this country in the elections. Not you politicians. It was the citizens of the Czech Republic who gave him the mandate to choose him. They chose him because he bothered you, and the voters chose us to bother you. And I can see they did it. That we're just bothering you. We also bother you as an YES movement. You don't mind just Andrej Babiš. The Constitution of the Czech Republic - please allow it to prohibit ownership of property? [[Room noise]] The Constitution of the Czech Republic does not imply such a thing. Sorry. [[Mike adjustment.]] The Constitution of the Czech Republic does not imply such a thing. The rich are tired of political rights? Abandoning active political rights? I haven't read anything like this anywhere. The voters decide who will be elected, not you. You're organizing a coup for a man who's just different from most of you. And that's why he was elected. It's you, Mr. Kalousek. Present? Absent. It is you, absent Mr Sobotka, who have mostly caused state debt, or have contributed to causing state debt in the amount of, I don't even know how many zeros it has now, a trillion 600 billion. Crowns. The country's debt only ended with the arrival of this government. Only when the Minister of Finance Babiš came into office. I'm not gonna remember the events around OKD, the overvalued stones, I don't know, all the cases I met during my journalism practice. It would be pretty pointless. A number of things have already been said by colleague Hájek, especially in terms of OKD. But in order not to be too sorry to my colleagues, when I am sorry, colleagues, I have never hit them before, colleagues on the left too sorry that I do little to them, because they only enjoy the opposition peasants, they also participate in cutting the pie that ordinary citizens have no idea about. Remember only what concerns all of us, all of you, even the communists. In 2001, you approved an amendment to the Customs Act, which allowed the customs debt not to be secured. [[17,00 hours]] I think you'll all remember, I think it was broadcast by Czech TV in connection with the M5. I guess we'll never know the amount of damage you've caused with this step. But it was huge, it was in billions. And this was approved by the Communists, members of the ODS, the People's Party, the CSSD, the Union of Freedom. Against him was the only Member from all over the House and he was a member of the ODS Member Plachý. Your decision allowed the Mafia to cause huge customs debts in the order of billions. Maybe Radovan the Krejčíř is laughing at us somewhere in South Africa. When I look at who then voted specifically, there are still many who are present and raised their hand to ensure that the customs debt is not secured. Am I to believe that you, as political subjects, are so incompetent that you didn't know why you were raising your hand? Or am I supposed to believe that you're in the mob system that you might be working for? I don't know which is the better option. None for our state budget. It doesn't matter. You have caused damage to a very large extent to the state, and no one has touched it from their pockets to pay for it. What are you doing today? Objectively, many of you will be walking away from the war in the fall. Or we'll walk away from the war. And so you follow the slogan of the flood after us? Our people need a job. Our country needs investment. Not everyone can be employed in nonprofits whose account is who knows what and money from where. But the ministers decided today... I'm sorry, there's something wrong with my vocal cords. The ministers decided not to go to China. Do they want us to be untrustworthy partners for foreign investors?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u61	I will interrupt you, Madame, and ask the House for peace! If you are discussing problems other than the point of our 58th meeting, please in the foyer, so that everyone discussing in peace can present their cause. I beg colleagues on both the left and right sides of the House.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u62	Sorry about my vocal cords again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u63	It's okay, it's supposed to be quiet. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u64	Who instructs you to ensure chaos and disturb people? Who in this country wants to take advantage of people's concerns, and who even wants to put them on the streets? Who's really paying you? It doesn't matter, but it's certainly not the citizens of this republic. You have a mouthful of democracy, independent media, and you can't watch Czech News for years. People are right to call her bachelor. They're already laughing at her. It is true that the truth begins where its signal ends. Is lying and manipulating it for citizens' fees also provided by Babiš? Social democracy has a mouthful of work for people. But he's currently following the motto the worse it gets for people, the better for us. You're taking advantage of the fact that most people don't know the information that shows who's who. Thanks to you, a small stallion can't be freed from electronic sales records because the Prime Minister wants people to get mad at Babiš and make sure that the EET amendment doesn't pass in government. [[Disagree from the left.]] You can laugh about it, but I'm afraid so.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u65	I ask the House for peace! If anyone wants to sign up for the debate, please do so in writing or from the point of view. But basically in order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u66	You're most likely counting on a hundred times repeated lie becoming the truth. Maybe you'll actually get it. Clearly, who works in this country is poor or rich, so the thread is not left dry on it. He's dehonested if he dares to endanger your trough. Elections are coming, and desperate people do desperate things. The Prime Minister resigns, doesn't resign, withdraws Babiš, but he doesn't care that there's no compensation for what you've done here. What she hasn't really started working yet, and they're telling us about morality. Which one of you has moral credit to evaluate another morale. What have you done for this country so far? So far, political responsibility means zero responsibility. The doctor will operate badly on the kidney and he's being prosecuted. You damage our country's interests, you cause a trillion-dollar state debt, you destroy our children's future, and you still have the nerve to play an ant. You are people without scruples and without personal responsibility. For fear of losing a good home, you can do anything. Analogies to kill the Sekal are offered right here. Babiš bothers you. We just need to get this one guy out of politics!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u67	That was Mrs. Jana Lorencová. I have four factual points here, so I'm going to ask my colleague Chalupa to be patient. The first factual point is that of Mr Petr Kořenko, Mr Michal Kučera will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u68	Thank you, Mr President. So I'm going to make somebody here say I'm without scruples, etc., just like everyone else. I'm not sitting here for any private business money. To ad 1. That citizens won't know the truth, that's true, because ČSSD doesn't have newspapers or television, so that makes sense that they can't know the truth. As far as EET is concerned, I just want to say, I'm not attacking anyone and I'm not going against anyone. But clearly, if the Finance Minister here prepares a law that is arousing people and businessmen - yes, I voted for him, too, because I believed that he had it prepared and communicated - and today they are being bullied for passing a late confession that he would not keep five days there, looking for mistakes there, there is no unified activity of the Financial Administration, so something is wrong. And I think the big guys should have everything okay, and then the little guys. And as for the tradesmen and the people we make life difficult for at times, I would also like to say one thing. These people work their whole lives from morning to night. Let it be our girl, let it be a colleague who had a dry cleaner, etc. But no one came to any great estate with honest work. So if we were talking about something, all we had to do was explain the things we asked about. Unfortunately, what is allowed for others, for ordinary citizens, is not permitted for politicians. And that's what a politician has to count on. Please let me and my colleagues here, who do their work honestly, not be offended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u69	I thank Mr Kořenek for his time. Now, Mr Michal Kučera, with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. A colleague, Fiedler, will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u70	Thank you for the floor. I was just waiting for Mrs Lorencová to finish her speech by saying, "He who sighs the wind, he reaps the storm." Because that's how I felt about the speech. However, I am unfortunately condemned here to spend the entire meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, including the absolutely incredible outputs of the members of the ANO movement, at this news desk and to hear it. So I must confess that I have not suffered for as long as I have been suffering today, especially when there are members of the ANO movement. And I wanted to ask Mrs Lorencová for one through Mr President. Madam, please, at least compare the numbers you're saying here, because otherwise it sounds really embarrassing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u71	I thank Mr Kučer for keeping time on the point of fact. And before Mr Fiedler approaches the counter, I will read the apologies received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Apologies to the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance Babiš at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. He also apologizes to Minister Robert Pelikán since 16.30. And then he apologizes until 4:00 p.m. Mr. František Vácha. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u72	I'm currently responding to read. Minister Babiš has been apologizing since 6:00. Where's he been for an hour? We're talking about him, basically, his problem, he's not here. I understand she has to go to Liberec from 18. But why isn't he here now? [[17.10 hours]] To Mrs Lorencová, through Mr President. My colleague, don't be mad at me, you used the phrase that a hundred times repeated lie becomes the truth. Do not be angry with me, my colleague, through the President, this concerns you too. You're saying, apparently, according to your chairman, you keep telling the same lie, and you think it's true that you stopped the debt of this state. So this government of yours has submitted three budgets: 2014, 2015, 2016 and will be 2017. One was the only one on the plus side. Those two were minuses before, and the new one for 2017 is scheduled again in deficit. So don't lie about you stopping the debt! You only succeeded once that it turned out to be a plus, but the next year, there's a deficit planned. That's why I say a hundred times repeated lie in your submission is meant to be true.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u73	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. And now, Mr František Laudát and Mr Blažek. [[Attention from the diaper that no minister is present.]] Okay, I can't go on. Mr. Ambassador, you have to stand by with a point of fact. I will ask the presidents of the government coalition's parliamentary clubs to ensure at least one minister does not violate the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. This is the Chairman of the ANO Group of Deputies, and Mr Mihola is here. [[Member Faltynek comes out and then Minister Zaorálek comes into the hall.]] The Secretary of State has arrived. We're good to go. Mr Laudát with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u74	Thank you for the floor. I'm with my colleague Lorencová. When this government is finished, even if there is some kind of economic pull due to market conditions, there will be a record deficit in the history of the Czech Republic under your rule. It'll be over 1.8 trillion crowns. It was never. And that is despite the fact that we have had to overcome the biggest crisis since the 1930s. For another, when you asked here, you asked a lot of questions, so I'd tell you who. Who did you ask? So to almost everyone in that conclusion, the answer would be you. And now I don't mean you personally, but the YES movement. There's no point in going to China. It is enough for us to hold the Czech Republic's credit with our behavior. We have the biggest trade with the neighbors. And who harms the reputation when it is written in Germany about Mr Babiš, an unprecedented conflict of interest, last time even about his attack on democracy. You're ruining the reputation. That drives out any investors. Because these are the basic messages to investors who have high value added companies. Those are the messages to the companies that do business with us. This is exactly what you are grossly violating the position and credit of the Czech Republic. There's no point in going to China, it's just change. But losing credit in neighboring Germany, which is here by car in two hours, that can be tragic for us. And you are grossly damaging the reputation of the Czech Republic. For a fraction of what Mr. Babiš has done here and what's on his shirt. And that's just the tip of the iceberg, and everyone knows it. I'm pretty upset about what Vice-President of the House said at the beginning - if we knew atp. We've been saying that since the beginning. [[The President draws attention to the end of time.]] So please let him speak for himself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u75	There. Thank you. My colleague Blažek has given up his point of order, so he has speeded up our time. Now, Mr Chalupa, a colleague of Mr Kolovratník will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u76	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, when I look at the title of today's meeting - Abuse of power by Finance Minister Andrej Babiš against independent institutions in democratic society - I see at least two inaccuracies. First of all, no one has shown that Mr. Andrej Babiš has abused power. I haven't heard it yet, it's just pussy. And the other thing. If there are independent institutions, they can't be influenced by anyone. And if an independent institution feels that Mr. Andrej Babiš's power has been abused against it, I would like to see some criminal charges against Mr. Babiš here. If there's no such thing, the whole name is wrong. I'll respond to Mr. Foreman... [[He can't remember the name, the laughter in the hall]] ... Mr. Laudat's colleague through your... Well, my colleague, Laudát, hasn't been here in a while, so it just slipped my mind. He said - everyone knows. I'd like to know-- everyone says it, but what does everybody know? [[From the left, it's echoing - everything.]] Everything. I see. Those are the concepts - everything and knows and the same, they're pretty relative terms.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u77	I ask my colleague and colleague not to shout. If they want to speak, let them come forward. So far, there's only 11 of them logged in, plus I have one point of fact. Please continue, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u78	My colleague Kučera, I am sorry that he is suffering here. Some of your colleagues have solved it so that instead of being at work, they're not here anymore, so that's all. Now let me say what I have prepared. And I want to say in advance that it's not because of my place on the list, it's not because of the election, I wrote it myself, so there's no point in having any more pussy about me showing up here in some way. [[Laughing in plenary]] I'm a disgruntled citizen. So I'll tell you what I'm unhappy with. I must admit that as a Member of this honourable - and today it is very, very difficult for me to pronounce it - an honourable institution here I am addressing the absent Prime Minister by your means, Mr President, with you, as Prime Minister of the Government of the Czech Republic and President of the Security Council, taking the necessary steps to put an end to the lawlessness that we are witnessing live here and elsewhere. [[State]] Frost really runs on my back, but you, coworkers and colleagues. And since you're in the position of legislators, I have a feeling that a number of you are in some sort of an accident. It's like you're not able to distinguish what's and what's not legal. But that's what the voter's gonna take over. There was mention of foreign countries, of the United States of America, of their democracy. Guys, if there was a trial going on, the judge, if he'd listened to what the plaintiff said in a similar way to you, that those things were taken in an illegal way, he'd have ordered the jury to forget it, and ordered it to be erased from the record. That's how it would be. Dear fellow citizens, this is the same case where very sophisticated rumors have been released into the air illegally and who knows how well-adjusted the rumors are. The journalist himself - and today several of you have repeated that Mr Babiš had looked into the documents from the living file - said the journalist himself that nothing like this had happened and that he had no such documents. So one lady said this, another lady said that, and you're saying it's the fact that it's true that it's proven? Well... Yet it keeps repeating itself here, so I feel like you're deaf and blind, and I don't understand what you're operating with here. You keep repeating - if proven. I'm stressing the word if. Are you running a manhunt here based on some kind of conjecture and your opinion? You, the legislature? Horrible. Bonds. There he sits - unfortunately, there's not one sitting here who has a direct share of the bond bill. They are not on the pillow, they do not resign, they did not appoint a Member. Does that seem normal to you? Media ownership. Are there parties that have their own media and are impartial? That's the question. Well, logically, they can't be impartial when it's a party newspaper. And they're media, they're public access. So what are we talking about here? And we've already talked about it in those laws where there are a lot more readers on Facebook and the Internet today than those who read some printed newspapers. I heard here that there are parties that the party press have... So we're gonna ban them here as the legislature that a party or a politician can't appear on Facebook, he can't have a newspaper, he can't express himself, he can't communicate in the media? I don't think you're serious. [[17.20 hours]] There are other citizens of the Czech Republic who stand for years, for years standing behind the scenes of party secretariats, and not ours, because our man, President Babiš, openly entered politics, completely transparently, voters knew who it was. You, dear coalition partners, knew it too. Now you're looking surprised who Mr. Babiš is. You're just doing the clown shop. If the public is fully freely made available to any unauthorized, i.e. clearly illegal wiretapping or recordings of the Vice Prime Minister of the Government and, at the same time, Vice-President of the Security Council of the State, then there is an unprecedented threat to all principles not only of decency, but above all to the security of the state, members of the government, to the security of each of us. I hereby ask you, as President, by your means, Mr President, that in this context you be ordered to carry out a review of the obviously poor-quality work of the Minister of the Interior, the intelligence and security forces, whose activities you are fully responsible for, although unfortunately, this is often unknown. If members of the government, namely the Deputy Prime Minister of the Government, are not protected in any way against illegal wiretaps and their subsequent misuse in the media space, and, on the contrary, they can be publicly dehonested, exposed to blackmail and so on, then at the time of the deterioration of the overall security situation and the danger of terrorist attacks, which must be corrected immediately. It is incomprehensible to me that even though the author of these illegal recordings, or of the illegal wiretappings, and their likely spreader, has not immediately started criminal proceedings against these persons, and all the context of this long-standing filthiness is not investigated. And that filth has been going on since 2016. And it's interesting that the wiretap is only available now. I must therefore ask who it suits, and why, Prime Minister, you have not, by your means, Mr President, acted forcefully. If any action has been taken, then I expect the Home Secretary to tell us what he's doing against this filth. [[Noise in the left side of the hall.]] I am struck by the fact that you have not only not done so far in this matter, but, on the contrary, you yourself have actively abused these illegal and undemocratic practices for your political activities. After all, you're not alone. In fact, none of the political representations of the so-called standard political parties, outside the YES, i.e. you, the representatives of the people, the legislature, which should be primarily responsible for compliance with the laws of the Czech Republic, was able to clearly and definitively condemn lawlessness and, on the contrary, you joined it publicly and supported it on the Václav Moravec television programme on Sunday. Prime Minister, you, who have been robbed by e-mail communication, which proves - and this is not a conjecture as in this case - your involvement and participation of your advisor Novotný in the agreements with the editor-in-chief of the journal Referendum, STEM to manipulate the results of public surveys, to negotiate with independent, quotes, the head of the Czech Radio Council on who should be the director of the public media of the Czech Radio, and the solution of the news outlets for the well-deserved members of the ČSSD - and I note that there are still things that concern Mr Valenta, and no one has yet seen how you have been looking into information about Mr Valent, so there is certainly some file about Mr Valent in your party secretariat. And you want to judge and moralize someone? What kind of moral credit do you do that with? Aren't you ashamed? If you wanted to do so, you would have the right to resign yourself for this very reason. But that didn't happen. Today's debate, you who are pervading democracy, suggests that for Babiš's sake, you will consider restricting the right to vote. I may have misheard, maybe I misunderstood, but it has been said several times here that a person who has actually been successful in his personal life should not actually have the right to be elected. Like you're gonna ban it? Like some of you guys are crazy around here! Excuse me. If the entire Czech public today is mediating your demise by non-demise and recalling the Minister of Finance, you should consider, in the context of the above mentioned facts, first of all your resignation as Prime Minister of the Government of the Czech Republic, a function which obliges you, among other things, to take a supra-party approach in ensuring the security interests of the Czech Republic and protecting its legal system. Throughout my work in the House, in committees, in subcommittees, I have a serious problem with leaking information from security forces environments, which significantly complicate the otherwise high-quality work of uncorrupted police officers, criminalists, prosecutors and other honest members of the security forces. You have also been informed of this condition and of the efforts that have led to a very difficult fight to limit these leaks. Unfortunately, I must now say that I am very disappointed by your civic and political stance on the leaks that you are essentially continuing to reproduce here over and over again, about the lawlessness and abuse of this disgusting and most likely long-term organized listening campaign, and I warn you that your actions not only benefit the legal environment in our country, they are directly harmful to it, not to mention the negative effects especially on security forces who are trying to respect the legality, and you are telling them that lawlessness is actually the standard that everyone here in this country will do what he thinks. We also have cases, such as the reorganisation of the Police of the Czech Republic and the liquidation of the independence of the ÚOOZ, the case that Mr.Faltýnek, the case of the Czech Post and others mentioned. It is strange that, without political consequences for the Minister of the Interior, the Prime Minister and the President of the Security Council of the State, by waving his hand, in my opinion, put a completely outrageous rumor behind him and led a campaign against the Minister of Defence with unsubstantiated and unproven, unproven surveillance of his person by Military Intelligence. No one's brought any of this up. It's quiet by foot here. How is this man doing Home Secretary when he's violating all the principles that concern the country's security? How did the Prime Minister deal with this? Well, I didn't, because it concerns a party colleague. You have a very special standard of evaluation of your ministers, Prime Minister. This is where the ODS starts dictating who will or won't be in politics? The party that owes this country and taxpayers at least a trillion crowns with you others, honourable parties, which you have stolen and brought out outside the Czech Republic irrecoverably, for example. Finally, I must say that most of you, colleagues who have not been exposed to this clown show, have lost respect for me, and I cannot respect you even as fair and respectable political opponents. Unfortunately, I have a slightly different idea for me about competition, as well as for the concept of honor. [[Offensive screams from the ČSSD corner.]] In your further decision-making, possible self-esteem and evaluation of your own actions and attitudes, please forget about your personal interests and, in accordance with your vows and duties and mandate of a member of the legislature, in particular the interests of the Czech Republic, its security, the legal system and the security of our citizens. So if any legend ends here today, then it is primarily a legend about our legislative competence, weighing, impartiality and ability to denounce clearly the obvious lawlessness that is happening on the air, fall to whomever falls, and in order to protect any of us, i.e. any of the citizens of the Czech Republic. Thank you for the attention you've given me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u79	I thank Mr Bohuslav Chalupa. Now, then, Mr Laudát, with a point of fact, and a colleague, Mr Kováčik. A colleague of Mr Laudát has given up his point of fact. Mr Kováčik therefore has the floor on a factual point. And then a colleague Blažek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u80	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ma'am and gentlemen, I may have misheard, forgive me if this has happened, and I have misunderstood the words of the previous speaker. But I beg that the legislative powers of our Members and Members of this College be questioned here. It's given by the Constitution. It is independent of the degree of intellectual insufficiency here or not, because what we have here has gotten voters here. The Supreme Court of the Republic has received Members and Members under the Constitution with legislative competence, with legislative initiative. Please don't question this! And if anyone wants to do so, let them try to change the Constitution. I say for myself and for the KSČM club that we will prevent this from happening in every legal and legal way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u81	I thank Mr Kováčik for keeping time on the point of fact. Mr Pavel Blažek's point of order now. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u82	Thank you for the floor. In brief, I will follow up on my colleague Chalupa, on his motion for a resolution. He's got the Home Secretary there, but it's not just a matter of the Home Office. There is the Ministry of Justice and the prosecutors who are also to act. Interesting is one thing. This did not happen for the first time when there were some files, maybe alive, from the police or some other body where they don't belong. A very similar case is a media-spoken case called Rittig, and how the prosecutors got evidence of whether or not this happened through house searches. There is, and this is also related to recordings, criminal prosecution of some state officials for interfering with the appointment of different persons in competences they did not have. What does Mr. Babiš say on the tape? The sailor tells him he wants to be a police president. My question doesn't just sound to the authorities of the interior, but there's clearly a double approach to the state's attorney when I'll never be a prosecutor, so I hear the tapes and the first thing I have to do is try to secure the evidence. That means I don't wish anyone anything wrong, but Mr. Přibil's house search was supposed to be exactly the same as she was with Rittig. I can't believe nothing's happening. I mean, I get it. You may recall the resolutions adopted on the basis of the commission of inquiry, where we asked for some measures to be taken against the prosecutors. For what? For the fact that some of the files appeared in the Lidové noviny. They didn't get hurt at all. That means, and it's simple that they're not going to deal with almost anything they should be dealing with. And now the worst part, and that's my hypothesis. The independence of the prosecutors ended by not respecting the House's resolution on this matter, because the leaders of the prosecutors became dependent on the ANO movement. All the parties said: do something with them. The only party didn't say that - the YES movement. And unfortunately, I'm worried, and I don't want the only reason they're not doing anything right now is so they don't happen to find anything that concerns the only party that's still holding them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u83	Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone. Now with priority rights, Minister Chvojka. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u84	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues and colleagues, I have long wondered whether to speak or not, but after this to a large extent in certain aspects of a bizarre debate, I have decided to perform. Firstly, through Mr President, he is not sitting here, on my colleague Zlatuška. I studied law when my colleague Zlatuška was the rector. Today, after what he did, I feel like giving my diploma back because it was really outrageous. To the President of the ODS, who called one of the ANO colleagues Luce Brasi. He's got good taste, I like the movie Godfather. It's just out of line. What my colleague Chalupa said, I'm going to respond mostly to him, he's always giving a speech, so it's gonna kick my ass. He said he was, although he is in politics and has the opportunity to influence politics for three and a half years, still a disgruntled citizen, which is largely bizarre because he here can influence things and his party affects them, that means being a disgruntled citizen in the other strongest party in the House is to a large extent strange, but I take it. He said something about parties owning the press, why they couldn't own it by individuals. I think that when the party owns the press, it's fair, because when I buy the party press, I guess I'm assuming and I know in advance what's going to be there. But it is very dangerous in my opinion, and I am now going back to why I tabled the amendment, that is, the so-called amendment that concerned the concentration of media, economic and political power - I think it is wrong. And here it turned out in the events of the last few days in complete nudity, what's wrong with it. As you said about yourself, colleague Chalupa through the Vice-President, you called yourself a disgruntled citizen. So I will call myself, and take it to a large extent with exaggeration, but it is like a disgruntled citizen and especially a disgruntled reader of the daily Mladá fronta and the daily Lidové noviny. I confess that I have been reading the Young Front since I was 12 years old, maybe I am in politics because I was interested in public affairs and that I have read the newspaper very carefully since I was 12 years old very carefully, very carefully and the newspapers basically all that are based on the Czech market, I am reading to this day, although I am not able to do so in detail, but at least I have some awareness of what is being written. And I confess that I am a truly disgruntled reader of the Young Front, because I have been reading the Young Front since I was 12 years old and the Young Front has changed a lot in three or four years since it was owned by a colleague from the Government of Andrej Babiš. Take a look at the comments made by the former head of the Pardubice branch of the Mladá fronta today - Martin Biben, who wrote. I don't need to hear any wiretaps, it disgusts me just as much as you do, so I don't need to hear them in order to know how it is in the Young Front today, or not walking, walking or not. That means look at Mr Biben's statement. It is clear that a politician, I will no longer name him, ingers and ingers into what the newspaper writes, it is sad, it should not be. And I think all of us politicians know because we're talking about the paper, how unfortunately the Young Front turned out and what happened to the Lidové noviny. And I'm pretending that not every editor of the Lidové noviny or the Young Front is wrong. There are a lot of decent people who can do and do work independently, appreciate it, but then there are a lot of people who, in my opinion, are working on a political assignment. And I think that those of us who read the papers, and those of us who move in politics, we're all here, they know that we have editors like the Young Front who come here, they're interested in what's happening here, and then they write a serious article, and then we have editors who don't come to the House in three years, or I've never seen them here, but every once in a while they write an article about the fact that Minister Bělobrádek often goes to America or that Prime Minister Sobotka often goes to the United States. How is it possible that Prime Minister Sobotka often goes to the U.S., and how much did it cost? Or that Minister Chvojka tabled an amendment a year ago to the register of contracts relating to medical devices. I was mentioned basically in the same connection as the famous former hospital director, I guess, Dbalý, there was just a missing photo of me snowing with Dbalý. I was put in a context with someone I didn't know at all, a thing that had nothing to do with him. And that's how the Young Front works. We just have a journalist in the Young Front here, and I think we learned last week the name of one of the more journalists who just worked on a political order and that's how they worked. I think it's wrong, and I talked to some of the editors from Mafra today, like I said, I have a fair relationship with them. I don't think a journalist is an enemy of humanity, on the contrary, we need journalists and they need us. I'm trying to get along with the press, react when they need a comment. I talked to about four Mafry editors today. And if my colleague Babiš was here, unfortunately, he's not here, but maybe he's gonna know, or he's gonna hear it, he's probably afraid to tell him, because even though the Mafra is cleaned up into a trust fund, some still say it's affecting these two journals, and it probably is, I'm sure. And they say, and that's my appeal to the Minister of Finance to get it out of the trust fund and sell it because he hurt the paper, he hurt the Young Front and the Lidové noviny. And these are the words from the editors of the Young Front and the Lidové noviny. They're unhappy that they have to work in these two journals. Yes, they have the right to choose, of course. Some of them would like to leave, some of them left last week, or quit. Some may think that by being there, it may somehow break or that they will not let themselves personally break, and they continue to write independently. And I believe them. [[17.40 hours]] But I repeat, I say and I know, and most of us also know that the Young Front and Lidové noviny haven't worked independently for the last three or four years since it was owned by a colleague named Babiš or owned. Yes, there are some editors who work in my opinion on a political order, I will not name them. If you look in the Young Front three years ago, you'll know who the reporters are because, I repeat, there are journalists who once every 14 days write a case about someone flying around a lot or having a cabin somewhere, and then of course it's hard to disprove. So what can I say in conclusion? [[Screams in the hall.]] No no no, colleague, I'll still talk. What can I say in conclusion? It would be best if Mafra had left the trust fund if the Minister of Finance did not own these journals through the trust fund. And it's been wrong from the start, and it turns out that it's going to be bought before entering politics, basically today's nonprofit paper - so what's behind it? That someone who wants to enter politics, billionaire, buys a newspaper. What's behind this? It's because he just wants to influence the policy, and it turns out he's affecting it through his media. The media is untrustworthy, I think very few believe them anymore, I think Andrej Babiš destroyed the once good name of the Young Front Today and the Lidové noviny. And that will be his inheritance. Amongst the others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u85	Thank you, Minister. We will now continue the general debate. Another duly logged in is... I have Mr Chalupa's point of order. I'm sorry. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u86	Thank you for the floor. Let's do it again. We've heard the words here again, I guess, we know. If anyone knows anything, they're supposed to file a criminal report, and that's clear. But we know doesn't mean anything. No one can suspect me that when I was on that committee that was investigating the reorganisation, I would act as purposeful. No way. We didn't show up there, and no one was charged. You're accusing someone here, and you haven't proven anything. Is this the legislature? You've got to be kidding me! One more thing. If this is where it falls... So it's not enough for you to make an entrepreneur, a politician to get rid of his property, to transfer it, you're already going to demand and force entrepreneurs to sell their property before entering politics? And if you're right, and the media is untrustworthy, then the citizen won't buy them. Or are you saying that a citizen is a sheep who buys something he doesn't want to read? Leave it to the people. If the paper's good, they'll survive if it's bad, so maybe Mr. Babiš here will go bankrupt because he just bought it wrong. What are you guys up to? We, as politicians, are we supposed to deal with the fact that somebody's buying a newspaper? You might think they're untrustworthy. I think they're trustworthy. That's everyone's business. Why is this dealt with by the Chamber of Deputies?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u87	Thank you for your time and for your factual comment, the Minister will respond to your point of view. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u88	I'm sorry, my colleague didn't understand what I said. In my opinion, a businessman who wants to be in politics at the same time should not own the media. Turns out why! Turns out why! And if the voter decides, then the voter decides what? The affected voter--
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u89	I'm gonna ask you not to shout at each other in the O.R.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u90	The affected voter who reads the paper will show what? I'll give you an example of some of my relatives. Not everyone knows that today or Lidové noviny controls or controls Andrej Babiš. Some people read the paper for 20, 25 years, and they just still believe it. They're not like us, that we're to some extent insiders who know that some things are somehow. They just believe that paper because they read it for 20, 25 years. What's that? Let the voters decide. Let the voters decide on the basis that they buy not an independent press, but a press that looks independent, but is instructed through the owner how to write about someone. And just in case somebody didn't say, of course, the party group press is also dedicated to making it look like it's just focusing on the ČSSD, even though we saw who Marek Přibil was focusing on in particular. They're also writing about the cases of members of the ANO movement. If it's some kind of county pussy, a deputy who's done something wrong, they'll write about it. You know how it is. That's what we're writing about, even those from YES, that the ANO representative in Horní Dolní did something. But what's interesting is that the biggest shit - the Upper Lower, it's just like a poetic license. But the biggest shit was always written about the ČSSD people. That's just the way it is. Andrej Babiš abused his media, Mladá frontu Today and Lidové noviny, to liquidate his political opponents and especially from ČSSD. That's just the way it is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u91	Thank you. And now Mr Chalupa will respond with a factual remark, then Mr Adamec, then Mrs Lorencová. You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u92	You're actually telling us, maybe I don't understand it again, maybe I'm dumber than you, but you're telling us that you're actually going to tell the voters: read this, don't read this, listen to this, don't listen to this one. Because a voter can't do without you. The voter is unable to find out who Mr. Babiš is before the election and what does he own? He can't figure out who I am and either vote for me or not? Are you the ones who will determine what the rules of the game are? Leave it to the voters. Let the citizen act on his own. We're dealing with something here that doesn't concern us at all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u93	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Ivan Adamec is now making a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u94	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, I will not respond to Mr Chalupa, I do not think it would make any sense, but I want to respond to Minister Chvojka. Mr. Secretary, and may I say this frankly, please don't tell the representatives of the pussy. I think it's a very undignified, great dehoness of the profession, or, rather, public activity. And today, any good deputy or anyone who decides on public policy, I just think he's a civil hero. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u95	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now with Mrs Lorencová's point of fact, then with the de facto Minister. Please, Madame, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u96	Mr President, colleagues, I still see the main reason or the main problem in that political parties do not have their own party press, so they will infiltrate independent media with their party interests. There's nothing we can do about it until the parties have their own press.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u97	Thank you, Madame. Minister with a factual remark. Please, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u98	Thank you for the floor. My colleague Adamec and I have been very clear about this. I wasn't thinking of a representative, I was thinking of a functionary. I was the representative in Chrudim, and of course I know what the job of the representative is, and I wasn't talking about the representatives, so if anyone understood that, I'm sorry, but that's not what I said. I'll respond to Mrs. Lorencová. This means that Mrs Lorencová wants, through you, Mr Vice-President, that each party should have its own newspaper. So you already have them, even two, some of them aren't ashamed of it, and that's the way it's supposed to be. How would we dictate that side? Who would finance it? Why would that be? That's just nonsense. Dawn wants party newspapers, Independents want party newspapers, SPDs, or whatever their names are, they want party newspapers. This is nonsense. You can't be serious about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u99	Thank you, Minister. At this point, I do not see any further factual remarks and therefore we will continue the debate by the duly signed-up Member, Mr Martin Kolovratník, who has come. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u100	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, and good afternoon from me. I will try to speak to you with perhaps a reasonable and relatively cool mind, even if it is not easy at this time in this turbulent atmosphere, and I am also clear in the mood that exists here in the House, you in quotes of all against one subject, against the ANO movement, or against us, that I will not have it easy. But I believe that you will understand my arguments and the questions I will ask, and maybe I will also see your answer to this speech. But what I want to say to begin with, what I've just added to my conversation before my preparation, is perhaps a symbolic response to Minister Chvojka. And I'll lighten it up. Coincidentally it was about him and me recently in the Mladá fronta today, virtually. In the regional edition of the Mladá fronta, a report related to the planned House elections came out and we were identified as likely leaders, two who would act as leaders in the campaign. Well, I look forward to it, colleague. And you see how it is about feelings and subjective perception. I'll be specific, then. You specifically mentioned the regional edition of the Mladá fronta in Pardubice, in the Pardubice Region, as it is clear to you who it is in favour of. And I for you - you personally, through Mr President, and also my colleagues know that here in the House, I am dedicated to transport in particular and to dealing with transport issues. So I personally have a completely different experience and I can illustrate it. When we notify the Pardubice Region, we publish information about the construction of the Chrudim, the D35 motorway and other buildings, so most media respond normally, receive the report, process it in some way, ask a specific question, state someone else's reaction. On the contrary, from my point of view objectively - and actually subjectively, I admit it - from my point of view, the worst relationship is with the Pardubice Mlada front, where getting some classic good news or good information is very, very difficult. And I get it. These journalists are afraid of the way you speak here and the way others speak so that they are not only accused by the public, but also by their professional colleagues that the ANO movement is somehow being pursued. So you see, this is about the subjective feeling of the two of us - the MPs, today the minister from the Pardubice Region of Jan Chvojka, and the MP from Martin Kolovratník from the Pardubice Region. And I don't think this should be the subject of today's debate. After all, Minister through Mr President, with all due respect to recommend to Andrej Babiš whether he is to remove or release a medium from the trust fund or not, that is probably what fellow Chalupa may have been trying to explain emotionally. That's probably his thing, and apparently the voters in the election will know whether the newspaper, the media, Andrej Babiš still owns or doesn't own it. Well, that's my quick reaction to your inspiration from our region. But I, colleagues, would like to ask you two questions, virtually. I would like to ask two questions, and this will illustrate my argument. We're debating here, and it's the essential content of today's session and conversation, the leaked illegal eavesdroppings, something stolen is illegal. And I ask you all, and I ask the previous speaker of Minister Chvojka, who is a lawyer, and, in my opinion, a very good and experienced lawyer, I ask you how it is possible that we admit that something illegal, stolen has become the subject of the democratic authority's negotiations, that we are even talking about this, that we will allow this discussion. And I know you're going to say that I'm distracting, that this has already been discussed. But I, my friends, see it as a very crucial moment, and I fear it. And I'll illustrate it on another case. In January 2016, more than a year ago, leaked e-mails from Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka, in the same way escaped illegal, stolen emails. And I really want to ask you in all decency, please, what's the difference between January 2016 and today? In the e-mails leaked, and I will be specific, a year ago, it is therefore the contents of the e-mails, the then President of the Council of the Czech Radio, the public independent media, the then President Petr Šafařík Prime Minister and the President of the Social Democracy Club, a colleague of Sklenák, about what the situation in Český rozhlas is like after the resignation of the Director-General, what the changes are in the Czech Radio Council, what the planned election of the new director looks like. And I could quote the e-mails when we got to it today: "Hello, I'm asking for discretion. As it will be published later, what the board will receive notary minutes, it will take a few days, I am sending today." Next e-mail: "Hello, I'm sending lines to basic information about a discreet candidate for interim director with a request for discretion." And so on. Friends, sorry, colleagues and colleagues, public media, not private, owned by someone but public, paid by all of us citizens of the Czech Republic! And the chairman of the board of this media informed about the events of the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic. On 13 January 2016, my colleague Martin Komárek convened an extraordinary election committee on the subject of this suspicion. We wanted to ask the Czech Radio Council, we didn't want to call it off or grill it, we just wanted to ask if the board as a collective nine-member body despite this suspicion, alleged, in those e-mails leaked, could guarantee that further events in the Czech Radio, including the election of the CEO, will not be politically affected. On January 13, the election committee was attended by colleagues from social democracy. They were all there. Otherwise, my dear and esteemed colleagues Honza Birke, in whom I regret this dispute, because in transport we agree very often and in quotation marks we pull together, mentioned Minister Jan Chvojka, Vítězslav Jandák, Vlasta Bohdalová. And you, colleagues, argued very strongly at the time that the e-mails were stolen and that the electoral committee and the House should not be discussing something that is illegal and that is not stolen, precisely by referring to the illegality. I will make a footnote, Mr Petr Šafařík is a member of the Czech Radio Council to this day. And we understood your argument at the time, and we finally agreed, the committee failed to agree on its agenda and did not discuss the matter. And that's the end of the matter, and there's never been a discussion about that thing again, just because the stolen e-mails were illegal. And so I ask you, colleagues, through Mr President, and please answer, I do not understand - what is the difference between January 2016 and these days? I'm not running away from the content, from your concern, and I don't want to deal with it right now, but I'm asking you very much for that answer. And the second question, it's probably more unpleasant. We all know that social democracy has a lot of problems in its departments, it has already been mentioned today and I will repeat: Ministry of Education - Police investigation and custody, case Beretta, false compromising materials to lawyer Karel Muzikář, again investigations, mentioned debts to attorney Altner, now several days of fresh prosecution and investigation in the case of tunnelling Mostecký coal society. koneckonců all, even in my mentioned native Pardubice Region, and it is sad that several Social Democrats are fighting each other and filing criminal charges. And I'm asking, doesn't this famous dog-dog-dog movie remind us? A great 1997 movie with Dustin Hoffman and Robert de Nir, a film about how to distract attention, how to artificially create another problem. Let me remind you that in this film, the artificial war against Albania was invented. And I ask through Mr President, I ask, I should probably point this at Prime Minister Sobotka: isn't today's session also a bit of a dog wag? And when Mrs Černochová asked us members of the ANO movement if we are handling all this, I am now asking the opposition representatives, Mr Petr Fiala, Mr. rapporteur and co-president Michal Kučera: are you colleagues really willing to jump on this game, on this lure with a dog? I'm surprised. [[18.00 hours]] For myself and I believe that even for my colleagues from YES, I say we welcome the debate. Let's make a fair argument. Let's talk about things. Let us give a resolution to be discussed. But don't be mad at me, and I don't want to run away from the problems you see at Andrej Babiš, which you would like to solve, but I think this is a scapegoat hunt. For one person, we might cover up a lot of other people's problems. For myself and for my colleagues in the YES movement, we do not want to participate in this game. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u101	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And your contribution caused several reactions in the form of factual remarks. First, Mr Pavel Blažek, with a factual remark. Mr. Marek Benda will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u102	Thank you for the floor. Mr Kolovratník was today an age-old who talks about illegal denouncing. But we don't know where the wiretap came from. For example, if there's an investigation going on, it might as well have been legal wiretaps. We really don't know if they're legal or illegal. And no judge who allows it is going to tell you today. We don't know. And it could have been the same as the boys you protected from Olomouc. They liked to bring material to the Lidové noviny. Anyway, one of the other state authorities could have, unfortunately, just as illegally taken somewhere else. But we don't know. Does any of you have 100% information that these are illegal wiretaps? I don't think he does, and he can't. I also think they're more taken illegally. But with certainty, there's no way we can say it. As far as I'm concerned... Let's not get ahead of ourselves about who's been reading any more wiretaps around here. I remember - I never do. But I remember in many debates it was the members of the ANO movement who quoted various things from the Lidové noviny that escaped from VSZ Olomouc and reprinted Lidové noviny. And the worst part, and that really is a serious thing, one of those things was the Beretta case. And now there's a serious suspicion that maybe it wasn't enough - it turned out there - from the boys of Olomouc, as I tell them with love and care, but that they could even do it through Mr. Babiš. Do you understand - as Minister Zaorálek always says, and I apologize to him - that this is really not a children's game?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u103	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Marek Benda. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u104	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, my point of fact is on the procedural proposal. I would like to propose, on behalf of the ODS and TOP 09 MEPs' club, that we decide, under Rule 53 of the Rules of Procedure, that today we will continue after 21.00, because I understand that part of the ANO movement wants to keep it here, and that it is good that we end it today. So within 21 hours, we can act calmly. To conclude that we can still act after 21st hour until 24 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u105	Thank you. I've already summoned our colleagues from the lobby during your request. And I'm also registering a request to unsubscribe all present and to re-enter. Let's just wait for the number of votes in the O.R. to settle... Voting on whether or not we will continue to negotiate after 21.00 in accordance with § 53 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, I initiate and ask who is in favour of this proposal to press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? This is vote number four. Registered 107 Members, for 65, against 20. This proposal was adopted. We will therefore continue the negotiations after 21st hour. Thank you. Now, I don't know if this is just a mistake - Mrs Němcová with a fact? So, Mrs Němcová is reporting for a debate with a factual remark. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u106	Thank you for the floor. I want to react briefly to what Mr Kolovratník said here. He demanded very strong answers about the wiretapping, so he demanded answers from Minister Chvojka. I don't know if you've been here, my colleague, through the management meeting, if you were here at the beginning of our meeting today, when your, for your movement nominated by the Minister of Justice, told us a blissful story about it - so maybe you're being bugged now, maybe tomorrow. And this is how he spoke from his post about what he admits is possible practice in the Czech Republic. You've been such an action and you've spoken to these words? Are you defending democracy in our country and calling on the Minister of Justice to do what he has and to assure us not only as a Member and a Legislative Body, but the citizens of the Czech Republic that he sits in that chair to prevent these practices?! Why don't you turn to him, too?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u107	I thank you, Madame, for respecting the time limit. And now, with a proper application to the debate, Mr Svoboda will be prepared by Mr Adamec. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u108	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Have a nice evening, everyone. That day, today's extraordinary meeting is very strange. But she's the same in something. I've learned again that all the robbers have stolen. I'm having a pretty bad time, because I personally believe that, apart from my grandmother's sugar at about three years old, I didn't steal any more sugar cubes. I've learned how bad we're all bad because there's some kind of conspiracy here that's supposed to destroy someone who's elegantly clean. And then I heard from the Minister of Justice that we were all expected to be bugged. I'd like to tell you that I went into politics for special reasons. Really so ideal that sometimes I feel stupid to do it. And I've got wiretaps that you didn't dream of it. I've been eavesdropped day and night. I got about 30 threatening phone calls a day. I got a video of my wife being in the basement with a teeny-tiny, year-old kid, and with that inscription, we know everything about her that moves. You know what could happen to her? And then I was bugged officially. Because in order for this to work out, I had to sign off to the police that I was gonna let her wire me, and I was wearing a wire in bed. So no one can tell me what it's like to eavesdrop or not. That's why when I say I don't agree with wiretaps, I know, unlike most of you, what I'm talking about when you're afraid to tell someone at home, maybe, darling, because you know it's gonna be reading twenty-thirty trackers, or that it might be a word that triggers the tape. On the other hand, but we all have to realize - what are we talking about here at the moment? We're not even discussing whether anyone is rich, who went into politics. We're not discussing whether he has some huge property. We are discussing whether he is using his political position for anything and whether he is using his resources and options to change politics. To change it in his image, as he wished, and perhaps to change it because it would be beneficial for him. That's the thing we're talking about. I'm not even saying that someone who's a millionaire isn't supposed to be an MP. I am not saying at all that someone who owns funds cannot be a Member. All I'm saying is that in a decent society, whoever's a millionaire at the moment he enters politics puts the property in a trust fund, and Trump did, even though he resisted it. And that it is simply impossible to link the power of economic, the power of media to the power of political. [[18.10 hours]] There's a lot of talk about it here, and it says, Minister Babiš, that it's a conspiracy, that it's rigged wiretaps, that it's rigged, done. I say, if he wasn't there, if he hadn't talked to that person, there wouldn't be anything to manipulate. When you experience what I experience, you will understand how to speak and that you must always speak so that anyone can read it at any time. That is our duty as politicians. If anyone admits to talking to someone about how they're gonna destroy someone, how they're gonna get a compass on him, if anyone's gonna let someone show him living files, then it's really not possible for me to treat such a person as an equal partner. It's just such an abuse of power that all of us here are like regular schoolboys. And when they pierce your tires and shoot out your window, you'll understand what I'm talking about. It's impossible to say, "I'm innocent because it's a compass. Yeah, I'm talking to him there, I'm answering him, but that's all fake and it's edited." No. If he didn't want to talk to him, if he wasn't sitting there, if he hadn't been invited, there wouldn't be any recording. Think about it. I, too, speak with a stronger voice - just because I can still see that the basic fact is disappearing. The fact that there's some material. Then we can say: he was obtained in an illegal way. And I'm asking what we all do when we're leaking materials in America from the Secret Service and things come out that are very defensive or very talkative about how secret services work. That's illegal material, too, and we applaud it. So we need to realize that if we are politicians, we may have some reality coming upon us. The way the public gets them, it's often dirty, it's dirty, we can disagree with it. But when that happens, we have to take these facts into account, and we have to draw the consequences from them. The result was to be drawn by Minister Babiš himself and we didn't have to sit here today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u109	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now with proper application by Mr Adamec. Mr Radim Fiala will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u110	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, there are no factual points, that's good. I'd like to apologize to my colleagues who are logged in to see me. I didn't get there until later, but I have to say, I've been logged in. My application fell under the computer or the printer, and on my emergency, it was found that it wasn't actually on the list at all. So I actually volunteered for a colleague of Mr. Svoboda. Look, there's something I have to say here because it won't give me. I am an opposition member as my fellow Members from the Civil Democratic Party. We could say today that we just said it three and a half years ago, that this is what it's gonna look like. Of course, when coalitions are born, some things go away. The vision of government, the vision of a group of people getting together that will work, and sometimes it's done at almost any cost, which is always going to show up in this way, so it just caused what we saw at the beginning, you as a coalition began to see only now. And I'll tell you something. I don't know at this meeting today if I'm opposed to those contributions or who the coalition is, who's a member of the government. I find this very inconspicuous. I have to say, what do we do next? Because we have five months before the election, and if the House should operate this way, I think next week it'll show if we're capable of it, but I don't think that's gonna happen. Some of the colleagues here called this meeting a comedy, some tragedy, some even a farce. Well, I have to say, I know a good comedy, I know a good tragedy, I know even a good farce. But what I hear from some of my colleagues here today makes me feel really emotional, and not just emotionally, even humanly, very sad. I think that even though we have different opinions, we should respect elementary decency. When I hear something here about troughs and similar expressions, I really -- folks -- open a knife in my pocket. Please, let's not do this. It's not a personal dispute. It's a political dispute. We're adults. We are elected, and we should deal with this as politicians in a political way rather than in personal hatred and hostility. So I still have to respond to what was said at the beginning. And I understand that when colleagues from YES defend their chairman. At the end of the day, it was going to fall as he is in this movement. And I wanted to lead you out of a mistake that you're some new movement that's fighting against traditional political parties. Well, let me laugh. That's not true at all, you can't be serious. I mean, look around you who's all part of YES today. And you will find there a whole bunch of former politicians for other traditional political parties, unfortunately, the Civil Democratic Party is not the only one. So don't say it. Finally, you have come to a stage where elections to the Chamber of Deputies are approaching and you are experiencing primary elections like any normal political party. We, who have been in this life for a long time, and your colleagues know that the fight for candidates will simply test the quality of the people around you. And in the end, they'll check the quality of your entire party, or any party, to be completely honest. So don't say it. By the way, my colleague Faltýnek - it's all gone. And I'll give you an example from our Hradec Králové Region, so you know that. Here it was said that the disputes began actually after the regional elections, when social democracy did not receive the percentages it imagined, and that the YES movement won in a number of regions. Well, I want to lead you out of a mistake. The YES movement didn't win. It only got the biggest percentage of voters in a number of cases, which is not the same. It needs to be said that this is not the same, because in our political system, the winner of the elections is the one - and the municipal ones especially - who can build a winning coalition. And in the case of the Hradec Králové Region, it was so that our former prominent member, Klára Dostálová, was actually in charge of the ANO movement. And, more or less, she made a major mistake right at the beginning of those elections. She and, more or less, the group, as it is, have called us all corrupt politicians, the old traditional parties that are the worst, and actually, it's not worth considering working with us at all. The elections fell, and what was suddenly a surprise that they wouldn't actually form a regional government alone with the percentages, with 25 percent. Let's face it. That's just the way it is. She didn't have coalition potential. No one wanted to go with her. So let's just say it's how it is, and let's not paint it pink here, it's different with you. It's not like that. I'm not evaluating wiretaps. I hate it. I didn't even hear them, I confess. The content I know about, I think it's serious, but I'm not going to evaluate it here. I'm just asking you a question, so we're all here to say, there's a problem that we're dealing with here. Today is another meeting of coalition bosses in Liberec, and the Prime Minister is on business in Luxembourg, the President knows, and yet he's doing the meeting. Is that normal, this? Is that a normal deal? Is this an effort to resolve the political crisis that came five months before the end of the parliamentary term? Ask yourself that question. I think the answer is clear. It's not. And what was following those steps that I had the opportunity to see in the media, and also on Czech TV, which I think is still the public television, it turns out that what was happening at the castle, so don't tell anyone you liked it. I think it didn't, because it was very undignified, and we certainly don't want that to happen again. I don't know how the coalition wants to solve this crisis. It's up to you, coalition friends! We are simply the ones who did not vote for this government's trust, we never supported it. We always said we wouldn't support this government. And just because we called a meeting today doesn't mean anything, please, that we're the opposition. It's our right to want to know what the situation is. But what should stop you from saying that we, as an opposition minority, have pushed through the agenda of this meeting. That's alarming, isn't it? So think about it and just act on it. Otherwise, I repeat again, I'm sorry I heard some of the outputs here, as they were formulated. I don't think it should be like that. And maybe in conclusion. You know, he said it here, Minister Pelikán, but it was also said from the speech of President Babiš about the denouncing: It can happen to you, too. And I'm asking: Is that a sad statement or a threat? Answer each other's questions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u111	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. With a factual remark, Mr Svoboda. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u112	Thank you. Allow me, Mr President, to confirm in this climate of distrust that my colleague Adamec applied for me, he stood in line with me, so that he didn't beat anyone. I know for a fact. And then I wanted to share a happy thing with you. I learned that I won the appeal court because Ivo Rittig sued me for damaging his reputation with my statement, so the court decided in the second standing that I had not harmed his reputation, which I am pleased about. Thank you for letting me tell you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u113	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now another duly registered Member, Radim Fiala. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u114	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have been listening for several hours to the negative stories of what has happened in this government crisis, particularly from two coalition parties of one government. We have also listened to things relating to wiretapping from the Minister's mouth, and I dare say that these things can only be bordered on criminal activity. I don't think that's the worst part. In the past days, citizens of the Czech Republic could literally see the scenes of Czech politics live. They weren't spared the show of statements, embarrassing scenes and, above all, lying. Representatives of this government literally bury people's respect for democracy live. Awkward political culture must create an atmosphere with Germany before World War II. Last days, they showed the reality of eavesdropping, power manipulation with the media, special-purpose interpretations of the Constitution, the use of police information and other aspects of power that are characteristic of the onset of particularly totalitarian regimes. It's not illogical. The so-called integration of Europe is aimed at creating a totalitarian superstate where these phenomena will be quite common. In this respect, we can say that we are trendy. In the next phase, the open criminalisation of political opponents will undoubtedly increase. I hope that we are all aware of the change in the political culture of the Czech Republic under our hands, in a negative way. I do not know if all political actors in this government crisis are aware that they are to address the problems of this country in the interests of citizens and to work for citizens. Apparently not. This government crisis shows in full urgency the need for fundamental political changes to rehabilitate democracy and increase the responsibility of politicians over citizens. Over and over programming, we offer a direct choice, a reprisal of politicians and an increase in their responsibility for the performance of their duties. Sometimes it is referred to as political extremism. We are most often labeled as such by those who introduce this country into political mud, political totalitarianism, and destroy the existing model of democracy. I am very clear that we do not want a government on one side of the party mafia and we do not want an oligarch government here either. We don't want party-power mobs robbing citizens' taxes, and we don't want to be figurines in the hands of oligarchs. The failure of political culture in the Czech Republic results in a loss of ability to defend the interests of the Czech Republic. Rightfully, citizens have no confidence that this government will solve their security concerns and that this government will protect this country from looting multinational corporations. But I think the most important thing is to say how to deal with this situation. Firstly, this government should resign as a whole. It has lost citizens' trust, and many citizens are now experiencing disillusionment from the behaviour of some of the government's representatives. I appeal to Prime Minister Sobotka for a new change of heart, for the appeal of what he has called off and the submission of the resignation of the entire government. The President should accept the resignation, act quickly and appoint a government that will lead this country into proper parliamentary elections. Secondly, only elections can be the solution to this crisis. The sooner the better. Of course, the role of the President of the Republic is irreplaceable to resolve this crisis. Unfortunately, the President of the Republic has become part of this crisis. I consider it appropriate, on the basis of our invitation, to explain its procedure here in the House and to restore a substantive and normal dialogue between Parliament and the President. It is necessary to return to the Constitution. The staff - figuratively speaking - will take a vote on this government and its prime minister. The prezident is not in charge of this role. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u115	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Tomio Okamura, with a proper application for the debate, will be prepared by Mr Karel Rais. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u116	Ladies and gentlemen, in a way, it is very good that the House, although only because of disputes with Andrej Babiš, decided to open the topic of media influence. In my opinion, the whole case that is moving the public today has three levels. The first is content in terms of what Minister Babiš is talking about. Here I agree that these are very striking things in the long run. He's talking about robberies, suspicions of crimes and their spread, talking about suspicions of crimes committed by Mr. Sobotka's people. He's talking about Mr. Zaorálek's incompetence, and he's assessing the incompetence and betrayal of the Prime Minister. Yes, these are serious things and they should be dealt with. But I do not agree that it is the Minister Babiš, who was one of those who rejected the proposal of our movement Freedom and Direct Democracy, the SPD, two years ago to enact the direct material responsibility of ministers and captains. Therefore, contracts are being overpriced, for example at the Ministry of Defence, led by Minister Stropnický of the ANO movement. This results from the current investigation by the Supreme Audit Office. What does that mean? While Prime Minister Andrej Babiš is constantly saying what the whole country knows, that the leaders of the mainstream parties have actually let public money be stolen for years, and a large part of their elites are professionally incapable, but Minister Babiš himself has done nothing against it, even though he could. All you had to do was raise your hand for our law. Honorable exceptions, which are and which we appreciate in our political competition. The fact is, those who are both decent and capable are always pushed to the edge on their sides. This is what leads to the entire current system of political oligarchy. This needs to be changed first and foremost, towards the direct responsibility of politicians and also of judges. In the above context, I would therefore like to learn more about, for example, the extensive investigation against the Minister of Health Ludvík v Hradec Králové, whether that is true and, if so, what makes the Minister suspicious. I also repeatedly ask Prime Minister Sobotka how often and what he consults with the lobbyist and attorney Mr Pokorný. And to this day, I have not received a clear answer. Mr. Babiš mentions new facts about Mr. Sobotka's work for Pokorný's attorney. The Prime Minister's being run by a backstage player, Pokorný, is very disturbing to me. This brings us to the second plane and that is the actual influence of the media. Throughout the history of Austrian power and the Czechoslovak Republic, it was customary for the group to have their party newspapers, and I think it was a very transparent way for everyone to know clearly whose message they read. The state then had its own medium and press office, which should be legally objective. Over time, ODS newspaper, Telegraph and Super daily, as well as Labor Journal, have vanished. And today the newspapers are pretending to be impartial and objective. Nothing is bigger than a lie and a scam. [[18.30 hours]] In my long-term experience, I know how editors manipulate news editors, distorting facts in the name of their own, quotes, worldviews, and, on the outside, fraudulently acting as independent and objective intelligence. And if, in some cases, the owner is behind this, it's really a scandalous lie to the public. From this point of view are the most scandalous manipulation and lies from public media, i.e. from Czech Television and from Czech Radio. Because the sole purpose of public media was originally objective news coverage. What happens on Czech TV is at the worst times of Huska normalization. Although in these months the Czech TV, after the election of Donald Trump, has slowed down the gas, its manipulation of public opinion is still striking. Last year we wanted to set up a survey on the topic of the Czech Television news balance. Typically, the agencies involved rejected this and out of protocol stated that their client was from time to time the Czech Television, which thereby insures its loyalty, and the analysis, which would of course turn out to be trivial for Czech television, would mean the loss of a wealthy client. Even without analysis, I can tell you some numbers for us. How many times has our deputy been in Václav Moravec's questions outside the election debate? Zero times. That's a very precise number and easy to verify. We've been on the news a couple of times, but especially when the subject could be used for our artificial scandal. How many times has the Czech Television discussed with us some of our programming priorities, which really deserve national attention, such as changing the political system to democracy, or, for example, nationalisation of executors, or changing the criminal law on usury, etc.? There's a very round number in my head again. Zero. The serious colleagues and colleagues, the media and their influence on public opinion are a very fundamental and important issue, since manipulation by citizens' public opinion, which cannot then make an objective and qualified decision, is in line with existing elites that reject democracy. It is clear to me that if we want to introduce democracy in the Republic, then we need to set up mechanisms that will set up very clear and enforceable barriers for all news media, both printed and electronic, in the sense that the media must be informed objectively and truthfully. We in our movement Freedom and Direct Democracy, the SPD, are preparing a new law that should replace the press law and other laws. We are preparing a media law that would introduce a binding code of ethics that would forbid lying, twisting and self-purpose dehonesing, with the media council, for example, from the transformed Radio and Television Broadcasting Council, to monitor, analyse and sanction this obligation. It's nothing unusual. Media advice is in most Western countries. By the way, the Code of Ethics was developed by the Union of Publishers itself years ago, only later it was cancelled quietly, and of course, binding ethical rules have public media. It's just a problem that, for example. The existing Czech Television Council does not enforce these rules, and it is true that Czech Television's objectivity cannot even be monitored, it has no apparatus or budget. He's a security guard whose lawmakers haven't put a single tooth in his mouth. Czech Television Councillors openly admit that Czech TV cannot be objective because it has a direct perspective from the European Union. We may have forgotten the famous quote by Councilman Michal Jankovec, who spoke about the objectivity of Czech television news and who said: It is really that Czech TV has a specific point of view. It is designed on the basis of a recommendation from the European Commission which allows public media to operate from fees or taxes only if they promote, defend and look at everything from the perspective of the traditions of European humanism and critical thinking. End of quote. How critical thinking works on Czech TV, we see daily. In the studio, the soul mates who dehonest and slander everything that does not fit their worldview, i.e. the worldview represented by Mr Sobotka and in Europe by the spiritual mother of Mrs Merkelová. Not my spiritual mother, of course. Ladies and gentlemen, the objectivity of the media paid out of public money should be the primary topic of debate, because the manipulation of public opinion really is and democracy falls. By the way, in our debate, we have missed, for example. KSČM Hello, newspaper. I don't suppose anyone doubts that the leadership of the party is affecting the content of the Hello newspaper. Yes, and we all know that at the same time, because this paper is today the only national periodical that openly professes its owner and political opinion, so we all know that KSČM's opinions are being promoted. So no one has a problem with it, because it's transparent. So the problem isn't that the owner is affecting his psychic. The problem is, when it's kept secret and when the medium looks independent, it's actually the other way around. And then such a medium just constantly tricks the public into playing on impartiality. There is no court in our Republic that would enforce at least basic compliance with rules like not to lie and manipulate them today. Ladies and gentlemen, let's work this out. Finally, on behalf of our movement Freedom and Direct Democracy, the SPD, allow me to propose a resolution on which we would vote. I. The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Prime Minister to comply with his public declaration of resignation and asks the President of the Republic to accept the resignation of the Government in accordance with the Constitution. II. The Chamber of Deputies invites the President of the Republic to clarify its positions on the constitutional solution to the current government crisis in the House of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u117	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. It may then be appropriate, in a detailed debate, to refer to this resolution once more, preferably in writing. Thank you. I'll use my moments to read a few apologies. Mr Zdeněk Soukup apologizes from 18.15 a.m. to the end of the day for health reasons, Mrs Radka Maxová apologizes from 18.15 to the end of the day for no reason, Mr Ondřej Benešík apologizes from 18.00 to the end of the day, Mrs Markéta Adamová apologises between 18.00 and 19.00 for personal reasons and Mr Pavel Čihák apologises from 18.00 for professional reasons. Thank you. Now, with a proper application to the debate, Mr Karel Rais, to whom I hereby give the floor, will speak. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u118	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, let me first comment on the issue of koruna bonds. It is clear that Andrej Babiš acted in the case of the purchase of koruna bonds in accordance with the law in force in the Czech Republic, which neither he nor any of the members of the ANO movement participated in, but these laws were enforced and approved by his current critics, especially then Minister of Finance Kalousek. The author of tax laws at the time, Mr Kalousek, accuses his main political competitor of tax fraud. Tax optimization is a common tool used by every small businessman. It is quite clear that Andrej Babiš and about hundreds of other entrepreneurs acted in accordance with the laws in force at the time, their companies had the opportunity to optimize the tax base and this opportunity was used by entrepreneurs. Now let me ask you to think about the reality of why people elected us. I believe that the reason for our mandates is not to substitute the work of independent control authorities and law enforcement authorities and to play the interpreter of the Constitution and not to destabilize the situation of the Czech Republic, but to work for ordinary people. I don't think I'm gonna be the only one who's been having a hard time putting together a picture of the last few days. I'm not the youngest, and I don't believe in coincidences. Why don't we now discuss the 200 legislative materials we have here to discuss until the end of the proper termination of this House's activities? After almost four years of operation of the ČSSD coalition, YES and KDU-ČSL, a few months before the real term of the elections, but in a situation where everything our coalition has committed to is far from being fulfilled, we are all drawn into the turbulent development of the last days. I can be sympathetic to the hysteria of traditional political parties whose preferences continue to fall to historical minimums. For what I really cannot find understanding, however, is the fact that the citizens of the Czech Republic have been facing an incomprehensible destabilization for the second week leading to the paralysis of the government's activities and today's House. I'm not questioning the right to change anyone's mind, I'm questioning the hand on the heart. What do I have to think about the development of the last days? The public intention of the Prime Minister to resign following his meeting with the President of the Czech Republic, changing in time in the order of hours, ending with the withdrawal of the President's intention to resign, and by proposing the appeal of the first Vice Prime Minister without evicting the coalition treaty signed by all the coalition political parties involved. [[Prime Minister]] [[18.40 hours]] Is there or is not, absent Prime Minister, a coalition agreement signed by you, according to which you must first obtain the approval of the President of a particular party or movement before submitting the resignation of any minister of a particular party or movement, and then submit this resignation to the President of the Government? Yes or no? My idea of stability, which is a key condition for the continuation of the House's work, is clearly a far cry from the idea of many participants in this meeting. I'm seeing it right now. Even so, I dare ask you, let's get back to work for the people. We have a state budget for next year, a number of legislative unfinished laws, basic laws that can significantly slow down or speed up construction, such as. a construction law that will probably return the Senate to further discussion. Social law, etc. That's why my appeal. Let's go back to why we're here. Let us by no means replace law enforcement authorities, but let us work for people in particular in the legislative field. And I consider this appeal extremely timely today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u119	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now with priority rights, I ask, Mr... Such a factual remark by Mr Sklenák, President of Sklenák. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u120	Thank you for the floor. It's kind of hard and tiring to listen to all those speeches, but I'm trying. I'm trying. And I just don't understand why you're not telling the truth here. When you talk about the coalition treaty and say that the Prime Minister must obtain the approval of the Chairman of the coalition party for the appeal of the Minister - that is not true! I've got the coalition contract here. So can I read it? "The Contracting Parties respect the constitutional right of the Prime Minister to propose to the President of the Republic the appointment and dismissal of members of the Government. For each such step, the Prime Minister must seek the support of the relevant coalition party." Looking for support and getting consent, I see the difference. And you know why it makes a difference? Because when we drafted a coalition agreement together, we were well aware that we couldn't design it to be contrary to the Constitution. The Prime Minister, the members of the Government and we all have constitutional rights. And it is simply not possible, as you imagine, to write in the coalition treaty that all coalition Members will vote as the President tells them or something. That's why there's a coalition contract formulation that needs to be sought for support, it should respect etc. Because you can't go through the Constitution's rights. So don't mention that we had to have some kind of consent. This is about the Prime Minister not deciding authorityally without consulting, without seeking support. But of course, you can't deny that he has a constitutional right to call anyone off.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u121	Thank you. Now I apologize to Mr Fiedler for skipping him. His point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u122	Apology accepted. So we have just heard that the Deputy Prime Minister may not be able to understand the written text. Because what my colleague Sklenák read here, I've already looked it up, too, that was very obvious. But I wanted to respond to a colleague of Karel Rais. I am very glad that it was said here that he repeated it, that it was tax optimization. I also believe that what Mr. Vice Prime Minister Babiš did with the one and a half billion koruna bonds that give him 250,000 tax-free money a day, 250,000 tax-free money a day, 90 million a year, that it was tax optimization. And we on the Committee on Budgets, Mr Kalousek explained it in detail, as it is, that tax optimization is not acceptable if it leads to avoidance of taxes on those koruna bonds. So it's against our law. That's how it was presented. There is also a moral text, my colleague, through the President. If your President stands here in front of the microphone and convinces the citizens of this republic, how he opposes avoiding companies and people paying taxes, how he fights against it, how he's gonna fight this, and here you admit that he's gonna make 90 million a year tax optimization, that's a total scandal! And that really is a farce, if this Deputy Prime Minister on the one hand is talking about how he's gonna fight tax evasion, and on the other hand, you're happy to admit that tax optimization, tax avoidance, is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u123	Thank you for keeping the time exactly. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Karel Rais. Your two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u124	Thank you. I hope I can make it in two minutes. So, about what my colleague Fiedler here said, the first person to take advantage of or use bonds was the state. And, of course, the state could have gotten money from ruling that day's leadership in a way other than that. And they just used it with a purpose, which is why the law was essentially passed. Well, that was the first thing. And towards a colleague of Sklenák. There is certainly a search for support, so I would like to ask the Prime Minister if he were here, where he was looking for the support and where, when the negotiations took place. I feel like he went straight to Mr. President and didn't ask anybody anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u125	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now, with a proper application to the general debate, Mr Kostřica, Mr Zlatuška will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u126	Good evening, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Minister Babiš, absent, you are repeatedly upset that somewhere he has probably illegally published the things you once said. Even you didn't deny their authenticity. It's not unusual, by the way. Let us remember that during the government crisis led by Prime Minister Nečas, it became clear that the police were probably listening in on the Prime Minister's personal phone. This was even confirmed in the media at the time. I was personally informed by our Honorary Consul in the UK, namely Mr Paul Millar, that they had noticed that then, with astonishment and concern, the members of the House of Lords and perhaps even then Prime Minister Cameron commented on this. So nothing new on our political scene. There was a huge raid through the URNA that didn't bring anything new except some missing purse bills. However, the Prime Minister acted like a decent man and left the political scene himself. I would ask you to take an example of this and resign not only from your post as Minister of Finance, but from the political scene of the Czech Republic at all. I do not want to repeat all and many of your transgressions against political ethics, each one of which would be enough to voluntarily abandon the political scene. I would very much hate to relive the feeling that, before 1989, after all the peripetia, we reached the so-called West to be viewed as at least citizens of some banana republic, or worse as a sellout of the communist regime. After 1989, President Havel was able to gain his personality, expression and attitude of the world's respect for the democratic world for our Czech Republic, which no other country was able to escape from the communist yoke and subjugation. I don't think any other U.S. Senate politician has been applauding standing up for a long time. I'm afraid President Havel would have to turn in his grave now if he'd heard the contents of this case of yours. [[18.50 hours]] Therefore, once again, I politely urge you to voluntarily leave not only the Ministry of Finance, but the entire political scene of our Republic, because it will certainly benefit our entire country and ultimately the ANO group. I personally see your position as defamation of the good name of the Czech Republic abroad. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u127	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now let me read a few apologies. Mrs Chalánková apologizes at the time from 18.45 and 23.45 for working reasons for today's meeting, Mr Milan Šarapatka apologizes from 19.00 for today's work, Mr Karel Fiedler apologises from 18.45 to the end of the sitting day for personal reasons and Mr Miloslav Janulík apologises from 18.45 to midnight for no reason. [[to]] We've dealt with apologies. Mr. Jiří Zlatuška is next duly registered, Mr. Rostislav Vyzula will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u128	Mr President, I would like to take the liberty, before I begin, just a comment on my previous speaker, Mr Kostřic, who called for something here by Andrej Babiš. Andrej Babiš is at a meeting with the President of the Coalition Party. We can think about it, of course, what we want, but the fact is, he's not here for an excuse. And at the moment when it was voted that we would interrupt negotiations until these Presidents were present, a negative opinion was expressed by Mr Kostřica as well. So in such a situation, calling on Andrej Babiš to do something in this theatrical way is at least manipulative from the point of view of the public who may be watching or not. And this element of manipulation is undoubtedly present in the way in which these sets of published clips are handled from some recorded recordings. I'm assuming there's been some kind of meeting. I assume the negotiations could have been recorded. It is quite clear that the recording did not take place in a legal way, although Mr Blažek tried to question it here. And if I understood him correctly, he implied that the tapes could have been taken legally. What part of the public that is willing to listen to those illegally acquired and somehow selected fragments is available, so these are the parts that don't provide the context of the calls, there's nothing more in them than torn out parts of the communication. In particular, it is not possible to conclude what did not happen in the conversations between Andrej Babiš and Editor Přibil. We have no information as to whether Andrej Babiš had banished or not banished the journalist to the limits that some previous speakers here suggested that in their opinion he should have banished this journalist. None of this is known except for those parts that those who enjoy listening to those illegal records might have heard. I personally didn't get to know all the published fragments directly. I listened to the first of those recordings where I can express my reservations about the dictionary that the Prime Minister and Prime Minister use, I am not thrilled about. However, after mentioning these reservations in front of a number of people, I must admit that what I also hear here from some colleagues outside the microphones to some problems in the negotiations, even from people who are present in the government for other political parties, after some failure in the discussion, it is possible to hear outside the microphones, so that it is not only far from this, but some individual expressions, when they do not put themselves together, sound in the same words. Of course we do not use these terms in common communication, we do not say them on a microphone here in the House, but there it is good to realize that the way in which this was taken does not correspond to the public appearance and we do not know the context in which this has been recorded here. I met the parts of the second recording in which I think I have no doubt that the wordings that sound there are not instructions and are not commands. The sentence is not synonymous with issuing commands. That is why the Czech has wishing or commanding sentences, which, in my opinion and according to what I read about the recordings in the media, are not included there. It seems to me from experience when Vice Prime Minister Babiš needs something, how he can turn to people in an operational way, highly untrustworthy that he would choose such an editor, especially at the moment when he clearly gives him information about the fact that he wrote something, he put something together. It shows that he doesn't perform a pre-delivered task, but that he has taken the initiative to see Mr. Babiš through such an editor instead of directing it if he wanted to do the editorial work. This is, in terms of normal behavior, something that fills me with sufficient certainty that the level of manipulation contained in those recordings is really manipulative, and that it's not just a matter of choosing the conditional sentences as something in other contexts, for example. in home communication in our home, it can sound like a form of request. In this case, I would certainly exclude this from this combination of facts for myself. And that's why I'm saying that this feels completely, as the people say, out of order. [[19.00 hours]] In the third recording, I didn't hear it, but I'm based on what came out on the Respekt website, or the statement that's contained on the web News on the blog of Libor Michálek, Senator Michálek, who we can't suspect is a man hired, as they say, by Andrej Babiš and Agrofert, or I don't know what's used for this. The one in the Whistleblowing blog or the provocation? Find 5 differences! They quite clearly describe why what sounds out there cannot be called influence. The published fragments from that on Respekt's website, the article in whose title it is said that Andrej Babiš said that he was always seeing a journalist himself, so it follows that the journalist even repeatedly offered him these things here, forced himself to keep it, because he said he had copies, and nowhere does it show anything about the fact that there should be any reasonable suspicion that what he brought him really is a file that is subject to some secrecy. When Mrs Černochová spoke about this, she enthusiastically said she was interested in the Beretta case. I didn't really notice this in this position from Andrej Babiš, or elsewhere, or in the news about the fragments that are available. There's no reason to believe that this information, which has been said in this eavesdropping, can be regarded in some way as credible, as far as the conclusion that this leads me here, I'm stressing when reading the reporter's report in some kind of expert view of the matter, it's not my own emotions, from listening to those clips that I understand people have, listen to them probably repeatedly and immerse themselves in emotions, so no, I'm leaning on the expert opinion of journalists, so it's leading me to the fact that Andrej Babiš, in particular according to these clips, was not in direct contact with police officers from ÚOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO This is in itself an aspect that excludes a number of the suspicions that are being given to Andrej Babiš here in this connection towards him. That's why I think that focusing on such fragments of recordings is really at the level of showing yourself over shots taken from foreign bedrooms using a keyhole. I consider it pornography. I consider those who are building on this, better yet, voyeurs, who should simply not have a place in a decent society. And I completely sign what the Minister of Justice said here in the opening part, who pointed out the consequences of coming out of these records. [[Noise in the left side of the hall.]] After this part, I would like to focus a little on the title of this point of negotiations, which I must say surprised when I received it in the invitation. First of all, the diction that is elected there seems to me almost to be taken by the classic cliché that was used in expression during communism. It seems to me that it's democratic, that there was probably something like socialist or communist before, and somebody just traded it in this way. In my time, I saw such scripts of pedagogy, where even the things were glued over, and it was obvious what... That sounds like it to me. There's another thing that if this meeting was convened for alleged media influence, there's a combination to independent institutions. And there it is good to realize that in the media sphere independent institutions are public media, virtually. public service media, where independence means independence from the state. It refers to independence through advice that is set up to be isolated between the state and the State respectively. policies, between what is represented by the majority result of elections, respectively. the constellations that, in political power, are the result of the electoral process. And it means, for example, that there will not be various transmission levers through the media councils, that when the selection mechanisms or the design of those candidates are established, there will be no various proxy mechanisms entering into this, which will in fact be purely political, initiated by political parties, and then voted out here at the level of political agreements. This is the general intention behind the structure that is in the law. I am a co-president of the new law, which should change the way in which the Czech Television Council is to establish, precisely so that such hidden influence cannot occur there, so that the institutions are truly independent. And if you look back at the reactions that this proposal has raised here, they are rejecting, where behind it it it feels that in reality only the hidden independence of a number of actors in the political sphere suits. This, however, is not the independence that the authors of today's session want to promote. As far as private media is concerned, I would like to point out there that no matter what kind of debate is being held in society and in the media today, there are a number of assumptions that are not actually met. In Czech law nowadays we have no editorial law, we have nothing to guarantee in private media the kind of responsibility of editors or editors for media, which used to be in problematic conditions of the previous regime in previous legislation at least since 1966. Since 2001 the businessman, i.e. the owner, has been responsible for private media. The moment you're suing a private medium for what it's published, this owner, the businessman, virtually goes to trial. usually his attorney, but he's actually on his behalf. At the moment he publishes the press repair, the same thing is published by the owner, not by the editor of the sheet, not by the editor who could have written this article. [[19.10 hours]] So, from this point of view, the debate on how much we can even talk about how, if we say not interfering with the media, it's not interfering, which is absolute and is not conditional on not interfering with the kind of work of journalists that is supposed to be dealt with in a desirable way, it's obvious. At the moment when this kind of definition is in the name of this meeting, I once again think that there is a slight degree of manipulation by shifting some concepts. The independence of journalists is an extremely important value, but it is a value that journalists must guard. It's not for us politicians to stand up for them somewhere and keep an eye on it. This must be guarded by professional journalistic associations, organizations, must be heard when something happens. You have to protect ethical and moral standards. From this point of view, it is only good to see that when it turns out that one of the journalists does not qualify for this, he goes away, which happens to happen to Mr. former journalist Přibil. With this I would like to end with the fact that it is clear to me that, meritorically, things to be dealt with are not addressed here, and once we hide them behind different wordings, we commit ourselves to manipulation. The same applies to questions that are asked, with their presumptions, their necessary assumptions, in order for such questions to be asked at all, to be considered. Answering such questions automatically puts them in a worse compromised position. This is the thing that I feel here not only in the name of the meeting, but also in the way in which it was motivated and led. This is also indicated, and I am going back to what I began with, that Andrej Babiš is also invited here by those who voted themselves to hold the meeting in his absence.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u129	Thank you. Vice-President Vondráček will now speak with priority rights. I will read an apology: today, at 7 p.m., Mr Marek Černoch apologizes for business reasons. I'm sorry, I'm registering three factual points, you'll be given the floor. First, Mr Laudát, Mr Kostřica and Mrs Němcová will be prepared after him. First of all, Mr Laudát, with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u130	Thank you. I'll start from the end with Mr. Zlatušek. Whatever you're doing, I don't know, I don't know. It was more like a speech like a snake in a tunnel. However, we are not here to hit when Andrej Babiš is free. Don't be angry with us, this House has been properly convened, with sufficient time in advance. And if he had to go to Mr. President, Mr. President, instead of throwing an absolutely incredible masquerade at the Castle and starting to deal with the constitutional crisis in a dignified and professional way, he had to show off what he was doing, well, he must have known that the Prime Minister might have another program, that the House was running, so he didn't have to summon it for this time. That's not what Kostřica's colleague is here to smell when Andrej Babiš will have and will not have time. He was supposed to be here. That's his problem. I quite understand the President, because Article 74 of the Constitution is quite clear: the President of the Republic will call off a member of the Government if the Prime Minister proposes it. So Mr. Vice Prime Minister Babiš here can squeal all he wants. If he wanted to facilitate the resolution of the crisis, he resigned himself long ago. I think if anyone doesn't trust the boss on any level, then they're supposed to pack up and go. For the next one. I find it absolutely incredible what my colleague Rais is doing here. Really, two celebrities, unfortunately, in the past today, with college degrees here, are doing absolutely something incredible. Mr Rais is a member of the budget committee, Deputy Minister Schillerová has clearly told the whole genesis of the koruna bonds, when they arose, that they have been here since 1993. I don't know about Kalousek being Minister of Finance in 1993. And you guys are still gonna lie here, you're gonna push these people around, you're gonna push them around, you're gonna push them around! That's what Goebbels did! A thousand repeated lies become the truth. Just stop it! [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Okay, I'm gonna turn myself in one more time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u131	Thank you. Now, Mr Kostřica. Madame Němcová will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u132	Thank you for the floor. I just want to respond to Mr Zlatuška's remark. I don't know if I understood him or if he didn't understand me. I was merely calling for Vice-President Babiš to deduce the consequences of his conduct and transgressions, which are a number of, each of which would be sufficient to withdraw from the political scene as a decent person. I don't mean to be mean, but, you know, I think when you're in a foreign country, it's wrong to be ashamed of yourself for coming from what country. But it's much worse when that country has to be ashamed that this man is her citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u133	Thank you, too. Now, Mrs Němcová. Mr Laudát will be prepared with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u134	It is just a small comment on what Mr Zlatuška said here about when the Deputy Prime Minister has time for the Chamber of Deputies and when he does not have it. His apology today was recorded around 5:00 p.m., I don't know exactly what it was, but it sounded like he was apologizing for not being present from 6:00 p.m. We understand he's going to Liberec for a meeting called by the President. At that time, we all knew that the meeting would still not be full if the prime minister, the Prime Minister, was missing, I don't know what the meeting would be for. First of all. And two. If you are talking about how the Deputy Prime Minister was properly excused, then why he packed up at two o'clock, perhaps even earlier, he didn't say a word, didn't listen to what he sounded at the time of his time, and didn't apologize until he really needed to leave for Liberec, when he thought it was such a crucial journey for himself. And I understand that he thinks it's crucial, because it's an alliance, and how they stick together and support the President of the Republic with Andrej Babiš, it's incredible, and it's one of the things that brings us to a deep state, not just the political but the social crisis that these two gentlemen are causing. So with that apology, I'd be careful.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u135	Thank you. Now, Mr Laudát. Mrs Lorencová will be prepared with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u136	Thank you. About the koruna bonds. How does colleague Rais know it was a fair tax optimization? Mr. Chief Financial Officer Janeček told us here at the budget in this room that he has no legislative tools to control it, that he doesn't control it, and he doesn't know who issues the koruna bonds. In a week we have already learned from the media that there are 520 of them, those who have published it, that they are being controlled, and some have even made an escape, which means that there is a strict restriction, which President Kalousek here has repeated several times, when it is a really legal procedure and when it is simply not legal. The General Financial Directorate or the Financial Administration itself proves that this isn't the case and that you just don't have fair information, or you have no right to have them specifically, and we didn't want anything but to check it out. And you already know that's fair. I warn you that you aid evil, tolerate evil, and realize that you can also be one of the first victims of this evil. Then he doesn't ask anybody. And remember and look into Czech history.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u137	Thank you. Now, Mrs Lorencová, Mr Zlatuška will be prepared with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u138	Mr President, colleagues, so I have finally understood why we are here today even after 9:00. There is no choice but to agree that all the governments that have done so far have done flawless work. All previous governments voted only for the laws that protected this country's property. All the governments that have been in the past have prevented it from stealing what could be stolen. They adopted laws that sent sweatpants to everyone who was stealing from here. All previous governments... Actually, why are we here? To congratulate them. There's a guy who's trying to fix what's been here before. He's put together a movement that helps him. So that's what needs to be eliminated! Congratulations to everyone else!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u139	Thank you. Now, Mr Zlatuška, Mr Kostřica will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u140	Mr President, I can only take two small points. First of all, to the lady of the house. The Němcová to the fact that it is 19.21 hours, I may have spoken extensively, but I certainly did not start before 18 o'clock, so Mr Kostřica turned to Mr Babiš here after 18 o'clock, which was the hour that was in the original apology. As far as koruna bonds are concerned, I note that Mr Laudát says that koruna bonds were introduced here at some point in the time of the ODS government, I do not know if he was a member of the ODS already at that time, and then they were popularized during the government in which Mr Kalousek of the TOP 09 was Minister of Finance. And the popularization led to the fact that many companies are more or less at the call of the then Minister of Finance from the party in which Mr Laudát was again at the time, used.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u141	Thank you. I note a number of factual points, so now Mr Kostřica, Mr Kořenek and others will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u142	Thank you again for the floor. I did not want to discuss it for a long time, but Mr Zlatuška provoked me that, in some way, in my opinion, he was trying in any way to prevent this discussion from taking place. I keep bumping into it as a member of our House's foreign committee, that the reputation of our republic is very problematic. Ten days ago, I was at a meeting of foreign committee chairmen abroad, which took place under the great media attention of local media, English media, etc. I've been asked twice or three times about this case of Babiš. I wouldn't say that if I wasn't provoked somehow, but one question was, and it's not mine. They asked me, "Please, why is this minister of yours doing this? We know his financial situation. If he's competing for the location of the richest deceased in the cemetery, he's definitely got a lot of time ahead of him, but he definitely means it financially. That's all I wanted to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u143	Thank you, too. Mr Kořenek will now prepare Mr Kučera. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u144	Thank you. I'll be very brief, just to do the right thing. You know how the privatization went wildly, how business was shutting down, and basically today, how many entrepreneurs came to their property and didn't use completely fair means, so I can't imagine that these people are the ones who should be in order. But the truth is, at least they know their way around the jungle. And the crown bonds. I drew the Supreme Administrative Court's verdict here, and I just want to say that basically what happened with the koruna bonds, it's pretty clear that it was tax optimization. And it even seems to be in accordance with the law, because there was a gap in the law. But it really doesn't have to be. Because when you read the opinions of some experts that I do not consider myself to be, and the judgments and opinions of both domestic and European courts, they have long since judged that any special-purpose legal act, which is intended only to avoid taxation, is invalid because it is an circumvention of the law. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u145	Thank you. Now, Mr Kučera, with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u146	Thank you for the word, just as my previous speaker said, he took the words from my mouth. And I would actually recommend to Mr Zlatušek through Mr President. Ambassador, please read something about it. Learn it. You wouldn't even take your first year of college with one of those.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u147	Thank you. Mr. Zlatuška's point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u148	As far as I am aware, the Minister of Finance proposed the abolition of the taxation of koruna bonds, part of the other political partners considered that this avoidance of taxation for some entities was okay. After all, this was advocated by former finance minister Kalousek for a number of those who bought it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u149	Thank you. Mr Laudát's point of view now. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u150	Thank you. With your help, colleague, you can't save it anymore. Do you know what you said here? Babiš has proposed the abolition of taxation. Please don't talk anymore.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u151	Thank you. Mr Kořenek, Mr Zlatuška, will be prepared with a factual comment. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u152	I just made one comment. I don't think it's about taxing koruna bonds. This is about the law as a whole and rounding, and we have this in the legal order since the 1990s, so it is nothing new.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u153	děkovat you, Mr. Mr. Zlatuška. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u154	Mr President, thank you very much to Mr President, through Mr President Mr Laudát, for bringing me to the attention of the fallen word. Of course, the abolition of the tax exemption for bonds, which, when rounded individually, are rounded to zero, then the zeros are added instead of, as my colleague Kořenek rightly said, the rounding was evidently done only after the values of those bonds are added up and then the tax is calculated.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u155	Thank you. Mr Okamura's point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u156	Ladies and gentlemen, I would really like to call on you to look into the matter in a matter of fact. Here again, there's a coalition arguing with some opposition, fighting from the left, from the right. And I would like to say once again that our SPD movement is calling on the entire government to resign. Prime Minister Sobotka should actually keep his word, he should file in accordance with the Constitution of resignation, the president should accept it. And we would like to push again to invite the President of the Republic to the House to clarify his positions. I think it's pretty clear from this afternoon that the government isn't working. The government has placed Andrej Babiš, Bohuslav Sobotka, with other members of the government, above their personal political interests over the interests of citizens. The government has completely stopped working. It's an incredible comedy and a farce on the air that you're all doing here. Indeed, the only option is the demise of the entire government and the quickest possible choice for citizens to redistribute new political cards. [[19.30 hours]] This is unbelievable! In the Czech Republic people have low pensions, there is no more in their wallets than it was in Kalousek. Young families with children are afraid to have more children because they can't support them. We have so many problems with usury, with executions. We've been designing these laws here under the SPD movement, and you've been fighting here all along on a live broadcast of Czech TV, you're just eating up taxpayers' money instead of working for this country. That is why I call again: pass the resignation, for you are no longer able to work together! You're fighting so incredibly here, and it's the YES, KDU-ČSL and ČSSD movement. Really, make a demise and let's challenge the president and invite him here to the House to explain his views and attitudes quickly, so that we can finally start working for the people as quickly as possible. Especially you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u157	I do not see any further factual points, and I will therefore ask for Mr Vyzula's speech and Mrs Němcová will prepare herself. First of all, Mr Vondráček. In the flood of factual remarks... Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u158	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I really didn't pick a good moment to exercise my priority right. I applied at a time when the discussion seemed to be experiencing a certain silence and when material issues were discussed. The shrink of factual remarks interrupted it, so I feel a little out of place. I'm gonna try to get this debate back. I have also considered very much whether to act as Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies at all, because I have my personal position that if someone is a member of the leadership, he should actually act, as far as possible, as far as possible, on the part of the Party's system and in some way speak for the House. I'm going to try to have some of the comments that were made here today from this very position. Basically, I'm going to approach a factual remark in the context of a proper speech. When I'm at my worst argumentative and when I don't know which one, I often resort to the law we learned at the faculty and how to interpret the facts. Basic principles such as pacta sunt servanda that the contracts commit. We have a coalition agreement that has not been honored and which has been broken in a flagrant way, whether it seems to you or not, and we have a basis for today's negotiations, which is a wiretap. He's just passing a colleague Blažek who said he doesn't know whether we can judge them as legal or illegal. We can only judge them from what we know, and I'm trying to sort of examine the pieces of the facts as a lawyer, as a defense attorney. And after the investigation I've submitted to, I don't really find a crime there. I understand that we are moving politically and we are taking political responsibility, but I am responding to the comments that Mr Kučera started when he listed specific facts to us, and that is why I volunteered, my colleague Zlatuška, but I think it would be good to transfer the information more to a legal point of view. The foundation is really very weak. I'll look away from the sound of words like manipulation. So even if it was reality, the wiretaps, the criminal validity of these wiretaps is equal to zero. We simply cannot verify the originality of the recording without the initial recording, without the media, without examining the initial media. We're here to explore a compilation composed of individual words. From a technical point of view, the explanatory ability is really zero. He even admitted editing and seduction from context, as far as I know, I am no longer monitoring the media, but perhaps even the journalist admitted some editing and seduction from context. And without a chain of any other direct or indirect evidence, what we are dealing with today and what is actually the basis for this giant act, even as an indication, would not have led to the initiation of any criminal proceedings, and certainly not to the initiation of a criminal prosecution. I say that with full knowledge that I worked as a defense attorney, and although I am not a criminal justice specialist, I was able to do some brief consultations during the afternoon. I really cannot agree with my colleague Kučera that these recordings could be subsumed under any deed of crime. For one simple reason. If you realize that, Andrej Babiš is not acting as a public official at the time. Not really. We're dealing with his conflict of interest here in terms of property, but he doesn't act as Finance Minister at that point in time. It may even have been mentioned in Section 317 - a threat to classified information. I'm begging you, but that only affects the journalist. He's protected by a press license. The whole file isn't in protected mode, as you've been trying to impress here, but maybe only some parts like private wiretaps. So what was passed on - we don't know what was passed on. We don't actually know if this tape is true, we don't know if it's legal or illegal. There's too many empty spaces. And there was a claim that Mr. Babiš should have announced. And what was he supposed to announce? That he was supposed to turn in the reporter? Did I get that right? Alternatively, I turn to about three previous speakers who preceded me. So he was supposed to announce the journalist who was doing his job, and he was taking the initiative to get to know Mr. Babiš about what he had discovered and what he was going to use. Isn't that right? He was supposed to turn in the reporter. In our country, it's sometimes called evidence nothingness in the legal business. Mr. Babiš filed a criminal complaint, testified, at this point there is a matter in the investigation of law enforcement authorities. But what's particularly dangerous in this case is extremely dangerous is that the House here is styling itself as a prosecutor and a court in one. It's a dangerous situation! It's been said about five times, and we can watch it, it's exactly a backward campaign, a negative campaign with a clear goal: to remove Andrej Babiš from politics. Now let's delete the name Andrej Babiš, which inspires emotion, and I'll try to have fun in general. Imagine a situation where such a negative campaign actually happens if this model works, it can happen to either of you. And the fact that the Chamber of Deputies is a prosecutor and a judge in one, the only basis is human filth. Filthy listening to private calls. And you can't deal with dirt and not get dirty. It falls on all of you, it falls on me. I appeal to colleagues from ODS who have represented me here for 20 years because I was their voter, I appeal to the healthy core of social democracy, which honors the old social democracy, which I respect and respect, to consider whether we want to go this way and whether it is really necessary for us to go this far in the election campaign. I'm being honest. I'm performing what's objectively going on, what's going on in the House leadership position, I'm trying to act not as a member of a movement. I beg you all to remember this once more when you vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u159	Thank you. I'll read an apology. Today, from 19.30 to the end of the sitting day, for health reasons, Mr Martin Komárek apologizes. I note a number of factual points and first Mr Kučera, Mrs Langšádlová and others will speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u160	Mr Vice-President, through Mr President, the Chamber of Deputies is certainly not in the role of a judge here, in the role of a court or in the role of a prosecutor. You're trying to fit the House into that role. You here are demanding the constant evidence and the evidence that is necessary for the hearing right in court. [[19.40 hours]] And what the democratic world thinks about the whole case is what my previous speaker, Mr Kostřica of the TOP 09, has already said. Please check the foreign press. Look at the foreign press. It's pretty clear there, clearly described. There is no doubt about what Andrej Babiš did, what Andrej Babiš did, but mainly how the entire case should be dealt with. Definitely by the resignation of Andrej Babiš. This is common throughout a European democratic society.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u161	Thank you. Now, Mrs Langšádlová. Mr Blažek will be prepared with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u162	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Vice-President Vondráček has left. But he's got some wrong points, because we don't have the issue of Babiš's Treasury Secretary yet. We here have a point of abuse of the Minister of Finance's power. And his defense that he didn't do anything criminally in his opinion was not appropriate, because we already have a number of points where he failed morally. And it's reason enough for him to resign immediately.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u163	Thank you. Now, Mr Blažek, with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u164	Thank you for your word. I'm just following up on my colleague Vondráček, I'm going back to not being twisted. He didn't want us to get along. When I was talking about the legality of the wiretaps, it wasn't about running it somewhere and playing it on the Internet, but I was talking about none of us being 100% sure that the wiretaps didn't get some of the state files duly authorized by a court. That's all I wanted to say. That's b). As for the prosecutors and the court in one. I already told you I'm worried the prosecutors aren't doing anything. That doesn't mean the House is supposed to do it, of course. But because it's quite obvious that they really don't do anything - and remember the media stars like Ivo Ištvan, how they always like to walk on TV and say what they're doing, they're silent here. And for me, silent means they don't do anything. Of course, that doesn't mean we're supposed to do it for them. Well, we need to talk about it, because there seems to be a certain part of the law enforcement agencies for reasons I've already said here, they're not.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u165	Thank you. And now duly registered with priority rights, President Stanjura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u166	I might just need two minutes. I wasn't sure. But I want to respond to Vice-President Vondráček's speech. The lawyers, they know, don't they? With that kind of inciting voice, calm, they're defending it. Every client is innocent. Everything's in order, etc. However, Vice-President, I would trust you, I would like you to always do this. You were here with us, weren't you? when your chairman said there are five thieves in the House. And what did you do? Nothing. That was the charge and the conviction and the anonymous, let everyone... you all know who they are. How many times have I heard from your chairman's mouth all stealing. What did you do in that moment? You went to that microphone, and with that reasonable objective approach, the lawyer said, Mr. Babiš, you can't do that. That's evidence nothingness, as we say, we lawyers. You wouldn't have succeeded with that. I can't really do that. You didn't. So, in concept... and I may, if I have a problem, ask Mr. Vondráček for help. I don't know. But that's a selection method. Your chairman here can insult, blame whoever he wants. And it doesn't matter that evidence is nothing. Because he's the chairman of your movement. I am, in my opinion, one of the civil democrats - and I am glad that you were our voter, and I firmly believe that you will be again. I wasn't talking about committing a crime, and I wasn't talking about investigating, judging or anything. None of us do. I'm almost sure of it. But we are talking about political responsibility. Doesn't the sentence of your chairman "yeah, Šlachta, who told me he wanted to be a police president" disturb you? You don't care as much as I do, who told him? When was that and what did Andrej Babiš say to him? Well, I'm interested. Why the Minister of Finance... Why is a police officer turning to the Treasury Secretary for wanting to be a police president? Doesn't that seem weird to you? Maybe it's evidence nothingness, but it's definitely suspicious. Don't you find your Prime Minister's sentences strange? Like I said, he doesn't ask what's going on when some reporter from his firm brings him some kind of compromise, and he doesn't ask what it is. But his first question is, who's it against? Do we understand each other? That's not evidence. That's for sure. If it's against us, it's nothing. And if it's against someone else, then we'll leave it to the socan convention and best before the election. I understand your prudent approach as a defense attorney. But I'd like you to defend us as opposition when your chairman insults us again and tells us all stealing. Matrix 27 years old. By the way, you've been in charge for four years, but you can count the four years. [[Laughs in the hall.]] That's right, isn't it? I think we can all count. Twenty-seven years today, Luca Brasi said. But four years of that, he's in full executive capacity. Well, at least get it straightened out. And I reminded you. You don't feel comfortable. How many of you have gone through another political party here or at regional level? I'm not saying everyone. But it was in your club - a longtime social democrat who was in coalition with the ODS. Imagine, with the ODS. Years and years. And as he says himself, I'll remind you that he's proud of being a Social Democrat. And then the octopus here says 27 years old. But he was part of it when he evaluates it that way, and it's executive. He wasn't a regular member. Yeah, Prostějov. That's probably another town. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u167	Thank you. Mr Zahradník's point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u168	Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I would like to remind you of what Mr Blažek said that prosecutors are not doing. Although it is true that in other cases they are, on the contrary, hyperactive. And I would also like to remind you of the inaction of other elements of our civil society, and that is all possible civil activities, whether those that stand up as fighters against corruption, Transparency International, Reconstruction of a state that is consistently silent on all possible cases associated with Andrej Babiš since the very beginning of his political career. It reminds us of the silence of the same type, but the silence of environmental activists, who are also silent about cases where the Ministry of Environment forgives Babišův companies millions of fines that are imposed on them for damaging the environment. So even here is the very striking silence of these activists. And maybe it's distinctive under the motto of who you eat bread, sing the song.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u169	Thank you. Mr Vondráček, Vice-President, now with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u170	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice-President. I didn't exactly take notes to respond to everything that was said. I believe that at this stage of the debate, at this time, I may not be able to hold off so much while I am still responding with priority rights. I said primarily in my contribution that I perceive that this is a political responsibility and a political debate. I said it. We're not here on trial. However, the basis is based on criminal law. I responded that the facts of the crime were actually expressed here in the contributions of several colleagues. So I think that was a legitimate contribution to which I tried to point out the shaky foundations of what we are discussing today and, above all, that we should not even discuss it properly. [[19.50 hours]] I didn't... I've been here three and a half years. I also had to get into that debate in the House, and when you come from the outside and you're ignorant of the environment, it's often squeaky. If you remember those two-hour breaks, we weren't able to live here together. I must say for myself that I have learned to respect this democratic debate at full length. I respect the right of 40 Members to convene an emergency meeting. It is simply a democratic instrument. It's the function of this House. It's a rhetorical site, it's not a law factory. And with all that respect, I got off. The fact that we can talk like this today, that people got arrested for it, some people sacrificed their lives for it. It's paradoxical for someone, hard to bite, but that's the way it is, and we have to respect it. And now I've forgotten the other half of your post where I wanted to respond. That's all I wanted to say about the first half. When I think of it, I will tell you in person, not through the President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u171	Thank you. Now, two proper applications. First of all, Mr Vyzula, after him Mrs Němcová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u172	Thank you, Mr President. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Let me also give some thought to the issue that has been under discussion here for almost seven hours. It takes a certain amount of patience to get a proper discussion, but that's okay. The situation is complicated, it's politically demanding, factually, personally, humanly. And there's no way to keep quiet. Mr Kučera said here, he is not here now, that he suffers from the debate - Sorry. [[Voice from the right side of the hall: Here it is.]] That he's suffering from the debate that's going on here. But I'm very -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u173	Mr. Ambassador, I'm sorry to enter your speech, but the Minister has asked me to return to the Chamber immediately, so it won't take long. I'll ask you to bear with me. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u174	So one more time. Mr Kučera said that he is suffering from the debate here, and I am glad that the debate is under way. I follow up on a very good bonmot, which Mr Blažek said here some time ago, about a year or two, when he said: Parliament is for us to discuss. 'Cause if we don't talk, there's gonna be barricades out there. I can imagine a barricade on House Street. I can imagine some of us who will be there with a flag. I can imagine those who will be hidden with a rifle behind the barricade. And I can imagine those who will be at the end of the Golden Well. Even in the media we hear that there are some demonstrations for and against, so we are discussing and discussing well. But what we're discussing here is we're acting, we're hurting each other, we're humiliating each other, and on what grounds? I was just thinking about it humanly. Based on what? Based on anonymous recordings? Probably, so far, as far as we know, it's anonymous. Legal - illegal? Probably illegal. Maybe legal, as was said here. Who recorded them? Who let them loose? And we're talking ethics here, and ethics mostly just one side that we're attacking. And I can't be insulted either, because I'm part of the YES movement, and I think we've done a lot of good things since we've been here. And that's what I'm talking about in health care, and that's what I stand for. Let's also talk about the ethics of the other side. So I thought about how a journalist can go down to getting information in an unethical and illegal way. [[A voice from the left: for money.]] I didn't hear.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u175	I ask you, Members, not to shout at each other. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u176	So I took the code of ethics of a journalist who was approved by the General Meeting of the Syndicate of Journalists of the Czech Republic on 18. 6. 1998, and, on the proposal of the Ethics Commission at the Journalist Syndicate, it was updated by the Board of Directors on 25 November 1999, and I would like to make such a point on the other side, which has not yet been mentioned much. This code of ethics of a journalist has three parts. In the first part, citizens' right to timely, true and unbiased information is. I didn't hear the tapes. I heard the first part, then I had some transcripts and then just what was discussed in the paper. But neither goes for it, it's not timely information, it's not true and it's not distorted, it's impossible to say it is. It includes, among other things, not using dishonest means to obtain information as photographers or documents. There's no mention of a ban on eavesdropping. There's no mention of eavesdropping in that code of ethics of a journalist. However, it mentions the British Journalist Code issued by the British Press Council and ranks it among the dishonest means of obtaining information. In the second part there are requirements for high professionalism in journalism. Well, no way - professionalism. In the third part, it relates to the credibility of decency and seriousness, which increase the authority of the media. And there's no excuse for inaccuracies or for not checking information. The privacy of persons must be respected. Rumors, unproven accusations, twisting documents and facts and lies must be considered to be the most serious professional errors. I don't know, but since we've been talking about this on an anonymous basis for so long, we're talking about ethics, so where's the ethics of this journalist here? Ethics is a complicated thing. I usually talk to the health department, but ethics is part of the health system. It's hard, and sometimes people just talk about it, they just think it's a cover-up. But many do not know much about it, and unfortunately, if they do not understand it, then they avoid and often violate ethics. What we're talking about here is that politicians are supposed to act ethically. Of course. Ethically, doctors, lawyers, and others are meant to behave. And shouldn't journalists act ethically, then? You know, a year or two ago, I was walking down this House Street in a lunch break, and I met a group of little kids, probably first grade kids, with a teacher. And the teacher stopped them here in front of the windows and said, "Kids, here are the politicians." They're acting there, and they're the ones in trouble, they're corrupt, they're in trouble. Is that what young children are supposed to think of us? To me, the process today seems and seems to be a process that was already here in the second half of the 17th century, when there was a witch hunt, and where we are probably rushing into the Middle Ages, the Middle Ages of the Inquisition, and the Inquisitor Boblig, who, through his cruel trials, lost the lives of hundreds of women. Let's also think about this from the other side. We criticize ethics, non-compliance with one-party ethics, but let's also look at the other-party ethics. Let's think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u177	Thank you, too. I'm registering a series of factual remarks. First of all, Mr Kučera. Mr Kalousek, Plíšek and others will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u178	Thank you for the floor. I will only briefly respond to my previous speaker, Mr Vyzula. I said here that I suffer from the level of some contributions, not this debate. And I don't even question the legitimacy of these sometimes low-level contributions here to lecture, which, on the other hand, doesn't have to mean that I don't suffer from them. You have spoken here, Mr Vyzula, through the President, about insults and insults. So that's the master of your owner, the chairman of your movement. The insults and insults are on the order of the day. If you really want to improve the state and environment of politics, please give him some training on ethics. I think he could really use it. And speaking of the barricades that will be here, I would like to point out that now it is full of Václavák against the appearance of Andrej Babiš and against the bending of the Constitution by President Miloš Zeman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u179	Thank you. Now, Mr Kalousek, Mr Plíšek will be prepared with a factual remark. Mr Kalousek is not present, in which case Mr Plíšek. Mr Laudát will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u180	Have a good evening. I, too, must respond through the President to the speech of Mr Vyzula. It is clear at all that in the ANO movement they do not know who will be nominated for what position of candidate, because the leader of Andrej Babiš will decide that himself in the sense of the statutes, so here we see the defiles of how members of the ANO movement defend the indefensible and no one has the courage to distance themselves from the outrageous practices of Andrej Babiš. That's also evidence of something. But my colleague Vyzula here said that there are demonstrations for and against today. I don't know what he meant. We see a full Wenceslas Square, as well as in other regional cities, a spontaneous assembly of citizens has taken place, who fundamentally disagree with the fact that the President of the Republic is violating the Constitution and is not doing what he is supposed to do, who disagrees with the unacceptable behaviour of Andrej Babiš, who brings in the practices of the Communist regime and StB, who discusses the fact that he will influence the composition of the arbitration panel and who is familiar with the live ties of the investigation files. So citizens spontaneously oppose this behavior of this couple, this pact Zeman - Babiš. And I'm just sorry -- and it's okay, we've called this meeting -- that I have to listen to some performances here that are completely demagogic, but that's life. I bow down to those who spontaneously convened the meetings and organized them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u181	Thank you. Now, Mr Laudát, Mr Blažek will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u182	Thank you. I am far from judging the ethics of journalists. She's clear, they have some ethical codes. But we're here to show, if necessary, when someone grossly violates the code of ethics of politics. I think it is unwritten, but perhaps everything may not be written for Professor Vyzula through the President. A politician has nothing to stick his fingers in the media. And when he puts them there, whoever's supposed to insult them before the public does, they're fellow politicians. He should leave the government for a minute. And speaking of the human form of ethics, I confess that I have never experienced a human being in my life, even the greatest ones, so you know what, to perjure himself to the health of his children, to drag them additionally into his chaps' nests. Do you really not get it, members of the YES movement?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u183	Thank you. Now, Mr Blažek, Mr Korte will be prepared with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u184	Thank you for the floor. It's hard for me to talk in front of my colleague Kort, because he's definitely gonna be stronger than me. Briefly to Professor Vyzula through you. I do not want to judge Mr. Přibil's ethics, but the truth is that he was admitted to the Young Front only when he was owned by Mr. Babiš means that he was responsible for any ethics, such as poppy, and that he was a journalist at all, Mr. Babiš has. It's hard to drag us into this in some way, and I don't want to judge that. As for the overall ethics of journalists, you won't find in me a single quote where I would say "somewhere in the papers about it and about it, it's true" and I'm judging him here. For that is Master Andrej Babiš, but be honest with yourself, often many of the ANO movement argued that they had read some articles, even today a colleague of Faltýnek and a book - it was written by journalists, not written by Alexander Dumas, the book written by journalists, so it is a work of journalists. Certain. Well, demonstration pros and cons. You know what the most valuable thing about today's demonstrations we watch in the media is? It's just that people don't do pros and cons. They went there to demonstrate that politicians should act according to the rules that are given, and they fear that the rules are not followed. They do not care what Mr Babiš and Mr Sobotka and Mr Bělobrádek wrote in some coalition agreement, but they want to proceed according to the basic document of this state, which is called the Constitution of the Czech Republic, and they do not want to disrupt the parliamentary system of the Republic. And in that it's extremely valuable that they came, and all I can do is thank them for it. And they didn't go for the ODS, they didn't go for the YES, they didn't go for the CSSD, they went for this republic. Amazing thing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u185	Thank you. Now, Mr Korte, Mr Seďa will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u186	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, have a good evening. It irritates me when we refer to ethics. Okay. One of the basic commandments you won't steal. Minister Babiš gave a sentence to all the robbers. He didn't know that he was denouncing himself with that statement, for the vague pronouns were all inclusive, meaning others, and so was I. And that is now manifesting itself quite clearly. Ladies and gentlemen, couldn't that be enough? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u187	Thank you. Now, Mr Seďa, with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u188	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. When my colleague Vyzula here spoke of the ethics of the journalist, I would like to remind you of the code of ethics of a member of the political movement YES 2011, which I'm sure you all know. Only the principles: (a) the principle of protection of the public interest (b) the principle of openness (c) the principle of conscientiousness (d) the principle of the good name of the Chamber of Deputies. Here I will elaborate a little, as stated here directly: The Member shall exercise his mandate in responsibility and respect for the good name of the Chamber of Deputies and Clubs. It shall refrain, in full respect of the right to a cultivated criticism of any action that could harm the dignity of the Chamber of Deputies, the club, their institutions and other Members. Let us each here take a picture of how this has been done today and how Mr Babiš has behaved towards the Chamber of Deputies and us Members.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u189	Thank you. I do not see any further factual comment. I will now ask Mrs Němcová to perform. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u190	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, we have had seven hours, or even more, a debate that has brought about a number of arguments and may have stirred up passions and places, but I think it was very good that the Chamber of Deputies met at this extraordinary meeting today and stood up to the issue of a deep government crisis that is growing into a social crisis. [[20.10 hours]] At the beginning of today's meeting, apart from those who proposed this item at the meeting, Prime Minister Andrej Babiš also spoke. From his whole speech, in capital letters, I noted the name of what it really is today. He said, "Today this is a battle for the future of this country." And that's all I agree with him completely and unconditionally. The battle for the future of our country is very beautifully written in the preamble to our Constitution. Let me remind her. "We, citizens of the Czech Republic in Bohemia, Moravia and Silesia, at the time of the renewal of the independent Czech state, are loyal to all the good traditions of the old statehood of the Czech Crown and the statehood of the Czechoslovak Republic, determined to build, protect and develop the Czech Republic in the spirit of untouchable values of human dignity and freedom as a country of equal, free citizens who are aware of their responsibilities towards others and responsibility towards the whole, as a free and democratic state, based on respect for human rights and the principles of civil society, as part of the family of European and world democracies, determined to jointly guard and develop inherited natural and cultural, material and spiritual wealth, we are determined to follow all the principles of the rule of law." So many extracts from the preamble to our Constitution. And I think that's exactly what this is about. This is to strengthen the determination to which the Czech Republic stepped out of communist darkness 27 years ago. And it is the task of today's Chamber of Deputies to strengthen this determination in Czech citizens, not to weaken it by tolerating what we have witnessed in recent weeks. Andrej Babiš here, apart from what we could all listen to, also said on the microphone in front of the Chamber of Deputies that, in addition to lying to everyone else and telling the truth, he said that there was also a lie that he was tasking someone on those recordings, that he was lying, that he would attack anyone in any way. Although I accept that it is very controversial who and under what circumstances recorded these recordings that we could hear, I must also remind you that in the last three years, at least since 2013, the media owned by the Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Andrej Babiš has not been shielding itself with wiretaps, including wiretapping from an open case. And they say who's dealing with what's missing, too. If, since 2013, he has entered politics as a non-politician who has come to wipe out the Augiášův's stable, where everyone has done everything wrong and has stolen, if this instrument, which is disgusting, has not been subject to wiretaps until now, how is it that he is now wondering that it is turning against him himself? And if he's saying in those eavesdroppings, or now he's saying in this House that there's a lie, that he's got a job to do, then for God's sake, he doesn't really know what he's saying anymore? That's a lie to him with such an automatic tool of communication that he's lying where he's going? After all, we can all read it, we can all hear it, as it says, when things are to be pulled out on social democrats, whether individually by some ministers, the Minister of Health or others, when they are to be pulled out, how to damage social democracies, whether just before the convention or before the election. How's that reporter supposed to do that for him? He even nods his head over it, Minister Babiš, that well, if it doesn't go through his channel, that is, his own newspaper, his own newspaper, so that it could be leaked through some other channels. The editor's offering him the law diary. Andrej Babiš doesn't distance himself in that conversation for one second, we don't hear him say, "Sir, get up and get out." I'm not gonna listen to things like that. I swore to you at the Constitution - from which I quoted you here a moment ago - and I will not speak to you for one second, knowing this commitment. I'm not gonna take this kind of dirt, and it's not gonna be a method of my actions. Did Andrej Babiš say that out there? Did any of you hear that? Has anyone ever heard him say that? I don't think so. And if I had already agreed not to talk about these recordings as something that really happened on that side of the way they were taken, and that they were ever taken, that we shouldn't talk about them, we still have to talk about them, and we tried to open it here many times as ODS, the reasons that lead us to the fact that Andrej Babiš, even if these recordings didn't exist, never had anything to do in the government of the Czech Republic. The fact that he avoids responsibility and is basically cowardly is what we saw this Sunday when he refused to come to Václav Moravec's questions. Just a guy who's convinced he's right would go there to fight for her and not tweet like a teenage tweet: People, go to nature, don't watch TV, I won't be there, so the sun will go out if I'm not there. It's not worth watching at all, the world seems to have lost its grace. He did not go into these questions because it was unpleasant for him. And in the meantime, they came out for me, and I got my mind straightened out about other things. So even if we forgot the recordings, there is still the testimony that has been made here today. A witness from the Minister of Foreign Affairs about how the Minister of Finance threatened him, how he would deal with him, if he had anything to say against him. How he's gonna spin it in his own paper. There is the testimony of our colleague, Mr Ladislav Šincl, of whom we have also discussed here in the Chamber of Deputies, and it is, I do not know how long it has been, a year, or how long, and I, although I am not a member of social democracy, was bothered by the leadership, as it took a while for the leadership of the Social Democrats to stand up for their Member in this matter. But this testimony that the Prime Minister is making files on uncomfortable people, and these files are compromising material that is not based on the truth, the testimony exists here. There is also a testimony to people who are not political. They may not be members of this Chamber of Deputies, but they met Andrej Babiš and his business practices. There is the testimony of the rada farmer. Tell me which minister in which normal country could stay in his chair if he had fired his competitor's field. How much longer can he sit in that chair? And I don't care what other disputes between these two gentlemen were. I only judge the moment when the government minister sends people to his companies to burn down the field for her competitor. That can never happen in a normal country. It cannot do what we have witnessed when we hear the testimony of the ex-boss of the Kostelec sausages about how these businesses are taken over and incorporated into the complex, the agro complex of the current Deputy Prime Minister. Even if the recordings didn't exist, even if none of us had to confirm with our own ears what we all already know, only those who put on pink glasses didn't want to see, and only those who closed their eyes from some momentary personal profit and didn't want to hear it, they had to know these acts and it had to be clear to them that they didn't match the normal democratic course of a normal country at all. I've heard something about journalistic ethics, et cetera. I do not dare and I do not feel at all strong enough in the campfires to name here who journalists do or have honoured journalistic ethics and who do not. However, without debate, when I read the statements made by the MAFRA journalists after the recordings escaped, it remains without question that the attempt to blame the whole completely unacceptable thing on one single person and evolve from it, therefore, to make him the main culprit and just so little to point out that the Minister Babiš did not really do very well, so the efforts of those journalists in this way are not at all good enough to deal with the fact that MAFRA as a whole has strong mechanisms in itself at the moment so that it can actually be what the independent press is meant to be, i.e. the watchdog of democracy. I think that the reasons that should lead us to strengthen our citizens in order to continue to strive for a country which, according to the Constitution, will be placed on free and equal competition between political parties are obvious and our primary task. [[20.20 hours]] I do not give a damn about the fact that members of the ANO movement are fighting here for their chairman and do not want to acknowledge one single argument that shows that Andrej Babiš is destructing the democratic establishment in our country. That the methods he uses have nothing to do with the methods of democratic politics, with what he swore on. It's not just me that says it and emphasizes it. It is not only my fellow Members from the Civil Democratic Party who accentuate it, but let me read a passage from one important representative of the ANO movement, MEP Pavel Telička. He says on the subject of wiretapping: "In general, but I can already say that in every democratic society, the fact that a politician owning a media house is having an interview with an editor as Mr Babiš has conducted it is unacceptable. I leave aside the question of whether it was provocation, whether it was lobbyists or other political parties. It's all possible. However, it is still the fact that Mr Babiš conducted the interview instead of firing the person and at the same time reporting the relevant positions, very serious." If you, colleagues from the YES movement, had more courage as your MEP, I think you would have benefited your country far more than what you were doing here all afternoon. Thank you all for your attention and with deep conviction that we will overcome this crisis of Czech society too. I am glad that we have been doing so comprehensively on this subject today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u191	Thank you. I will read an apology: Today, from 20 o'clock to the end of the day, Minister Martin Stropnickýý apologizes for reasons of work. I wonder if anyone else is still reporting for the general debate. I do not see an application, in which case I conclude the general debate and ask the rapporteur and the appellant if you want the final words at this point. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u192	Once again, good evening now, ladies and gentlemen. I would just briefly summarize today's debate and the reasons why we have called a meeting called Abuse of Power by Finance Minister Andrej Babiš against independent democratic institutions. We cannot imagine that the House has not dealt with the facts that have recently surfaced. We should not have addressed today's ambition for how they came about or how they leaked the wiretap that the information was from. This is indeed the work of the Police of the Czech Republic to investigate it. What we cannot ignore is the content of these wiretaps, whose authenticity was confirmed in the first phase by Minister Andrej Babiš himself. It is said in those eavesdroppings that a member of the government tried to influence the personnel composition of the arbitration court. In those eavesdroppings, what we all suspected long ago was that Andrej Babiš was manipulating the editors he promised to be independent, and, in conjunction with his media, he did not hesitate to use police files to compromise political opponents. And most importantly, he looks into living police files. In any civilised country, each of these steps would be enough to leave politics and public life immediately. In our opinion, the Chamber of Deputies must speak in this sense. This is about maintaining the most basic standards of political culture and principles. I believe that the resolution subsequently adopted by this Chamber of Deputies, which will be put forward by Members, will help us to respect precisely the preservation of political culture. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u193	Thank you. I ask the plaintiff if he wants the final word. It's not like that. We will therefore proceed to the debate in detail, in which I register three applications. With priority rights, Mr. Chairman Stanjura, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u194	Thank you for the floor. Just formally, because I'm -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u195	I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman. Before you go any further, I will ask the honourable House to keep it down so that it is understood what you are speaking. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u196	Or I can add to the power of the voice. That's the second option. But it's better to keep it down. I said the motion for a resolution in my introductory speech, but it was before the general debate started, so I will formally read it in a detailed debate to do what is best for all the rules. Motion for a resolution from the Chamber of Deputies: "The Chamber of Deputies notes that Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Andrej Babiš repeatedly lied in his public appearances and abused his media to compromise political opponents." Second: "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the President of the Czech Republic, Miloš Zeman, to respect the Constitution of the Czech Republic consistently in the performance of his duties."
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u197	Thank you. Before I give another word, I'll read the cancellation of the apology. Mrs Adamová Pekarová has been canceling her apology since 20.20 hours. Mr Fichtner will now prepare Mr Okamura. I apologise, Member, with priority rights, Mr Kalousek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u198	I am very sorry to Mr Fichtner, but this responds to the motion for a resolution. I would like to make an amendment or ask Mr Zbyněk Stanjura to adopt my minor wording. How is it that he follows the Constitution in the case of the President of the Republic... Excuse me, can I take a look at the wording? To complete the Constitution of the Czech Republic consistently and promptly. This means that President Stanjura was told to respect the Constitution of the Czech Republic consistently in the performance of his duties. It would seem more appropriate to me that the word should be there without delay in view of the situation. This means "to complete the Constitution of the Czech Republic consistently and promptly".
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u199	Before I go on, I will ask President Stanjura whether I should vote alone or whether he will adopt this proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u200	Something in between. I agree with this proposal, I just think that if we want to stick to the Constitutional Court's case law, I would put it this way: "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the President of the Czech Republic, Miloš Zeman, to respect the Constitution of the Czech Republic consistently and without undue delay. " This is an exact diction - without undue delay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u201	Okay. I take this proposal, which you read last, as a motion for a resolution, which I will put to the vote. Thank you. Now, Mr Fichtner, Mr Okamura will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u202	Thank you for the floor. Good evening, everyone. After today, I understand that there are only two political subjects in the Chamber of Deputies. It's the YES movement, and then it's some weird goose who could be called the national front against Andrej Babiš. However, this discussion has been going on for a long time, so that we may at least be a little productive, because that day is actually dead, and completely unnecessary, so I would like to propose two resolutions. I ask that each vote be taken separately. First of all: "The Chamber of Deputies states that Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka failed to perform his duties when he put the interests of the Czech Social Democratic Party ahead of the interests of the citizens of the Czech Republic, destabilized the Czech Republic and sparked a government and constitutional crisis by his actions." This is the first motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u203	Okay. And the other part?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u204	The second motion for a resolution is: "The Chamber of Deputies calls on Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka to give up his office immediately and allow the so far successful government of the Czech Republic to complete its mandate until the proper elections." Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u205	Thank you, too. Now with priority rights... But first of all, President Stanjura has a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u206	I respect the right of every Member to propose a resolution, we will certainly vote. I don't want to comment, just the first sentence - the YES movement and the national front against Babiš... Mr. Fichtner, if I have good information, you were the deputy mayor for the TOP 09... [[Laughter and applause of some present in the hall.]] And I have unverified information that you were also a member of the Civil Democratic Party. Well, I don't know if that's true, but I'm afraid that's true, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u207	Thank you. Now with priority... Not yet. Another point of fact, President Kalousek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u208	That was not nice of you, through Mr President, now, Mr Stanjur. He really was our politician. We banished him for reasonable suspicion of fraud. [[Laughs in the hall, especially among the members of social democracy.]] But I would like to point out that there are a lot of similar exfoliations that went from the ODS to the YES movement. [[Laughter.]] So please don't just throw it at us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u209	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by Vice-President Vondráček. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u210	Thank you for the floor. It's been, like, a year since we've been discussing parliamentary non-voting language here. I remember Mr Hamáček saying, after his experience, that when a Member of the British Parliament said that he was a liar, he was banished because he used a non-voting language. We've been through a lot in this debate. But to put it in a resolution, I think you're reducing the weight of this House, making it a circus. I call on you, through Mr President, to rephrase your resolution, Mr Stanjur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u211	Thank you. So let's keep going. Mr Okamura is duly registered, Mr Kováčik will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u212	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me, on behalf of our movement Freedom and Direct Democracy - the SPD, to propose a resolution that we would vote on and in which our movement demands the demise of the entire government, because the government has completely ceased to work and there is no hope that it will start working. We are witnessing only the endless quarrels of the ČSSD coalition, YES and KDU-ČSL movement. It is no longer possible to tolerate this. It's unbearable how you behave. So the first item of the resolution proposed by our SPD movement to vote is: "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Prime Minister to comply with his public statement on the resignation of the Government and asks the President of the Republic to accept the resignation of the Government in accordance with the Constitution." The second point of the resolution on which our SPD is proposing to vote is: 'The Chamber of Deputies invites the President of the Republic to clarify its positions on the constitutional solution to the current government crisis on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies.' And I beg you to support the vote on the resolution proposed by our SPD movement because we will end the agony. Citizens need to hand out political cards again in elections. You've completely stopped working for people. You're just fighting. And I propose that we vote separately on each of these points in the proposed resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u213	Yes. I'm registering your proposal. I will just ask you to give the rapporteur a written motion for this resolution so that he can read it if necessary. Another one entered in the detailed debate is Mr Kováčik. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u214	Mr President, Prime Minister, the esteemed government residue, colleagues, we have told you all and also Prime Minister Sobotka, Vice Prime Minister Babiš, and Prime Minister Babiš, and Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek, Prime Minister Belobrádek, or the leaders of the government parties, or the government of coalition parties, what we want to hear from today's negotiations. [[There are three ministers sitting in the government bench]] We expect them to tell us how to deal with this quasi-crisis, because it is not a crisis for a substantive reason, it is a crisis for the reasons which, I would say, are primarily motivated to speak in Parliament's language, how they intend to deal with what they have committed themselves to in the parliamentary pledge, in the coalition treaty, after all, and what else is presented here in the Chamber of Deputies in the form of bills, whether they are governmental or parliamentary. Instead, we have seen another attack, instead we have seen that the crisis that is going on is losing hope of a successful solution. And we have become together with the citizens who still - and I admire them - have the patience to watch, because the live stream is still running, witnessing that the government coalition, your government coalition, is no longer able to speak to each other, let alone agree on something. Unfortunately, it is sadly true that what we have said here and proposed in January that the government coalition is no longer able to bring something new to society, citizens, municipalities, cities, businesses, regions, and therefore let's talk about how we end its existence, and let's agree to dissolve the House and make a new card deal, ask voters to come to the ballot box early and hand out the cards again, that unfortunately we saw ahead, we had the sad truth in this, even though I say it a little bit like euphemism, because it's all a lot worse. We have prepared a motion for a resolution because we are optimistic. So we asked you to sign or sign, say, Tuesday next week or Wednesday next week, our proposal to convene an extraordinary meeting of the Chamber of Deputies to deal with a motion for distrust by the Government of the Czech Republic. But until then, this will be the nearest meeting, we are still giving, we want through the Chamber of Deputies, through our motion for a resolution, to give the government coalition a chance to recover, especially to the Prime Minister, to recover and to fulfil the role that he has committed himself to. So let me ask you to support our motion for a resolution, which has two parts, and these parts are organically linked to me in my opinion, but if anyone wants to vote separately, I am not resisting it. The proposal is: "The Chamber of Deputies First, notes that following the discussion at the 58th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, the government crisis did not resolve but deepened, and, secondly, asks the Prime Minister to report to the next meeting of the Chamber of Deputies without undue delay on the process of resolving the government crisis." I believe it's quite a reasonable suggestion that for a number of of you, the hope that is still a little bit more, but we have to calm their passions and make sure that the rest of the time left for the election is worked out politely and rationally. I ask you to consider and support the proposal. At the same time, we have - and I see that I am the last one - a number of other motions for resolutions. Before voting on these proposals, I would like to ask for a break in the meeting of the KSČM club, especially in order to compare the individual proposals and try to vote so rationally that this meeting, at least in that resolution, has a different result from the fact that government parties are constantly arguing, they are counting on anything that is normally being dealt with there. And that even the purpose for which this meeting was convened could be resolved and explained sufficiently, i.e. in good time or in good time. [[20.40 hours]] Please note that we still have a sense of 340 or how many points in the next meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. The situation in the government coalition tells us that it will not be resolved. But we personally think, at least for the KSČM club, I can say that we are here from the end, to the end, to the date of the elections, if they are premature or proper, to fulfil their role, to fulfil the parliamentary pledge, to take up, among other things, the legislative work. And there's quite a lot of that in front of us at 340 points. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u215	Before you leave, Mr President, I would like to ask you how long you want the recess before the vote. What length?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u216	Twenty minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u217	Twenty minutes, okay, thank you. So, first of all, I'm going to ask if anyone else is reporting for a detailed debate. I see no one, in which case I conclude a detailed debate. I ask the rapporteur and the appellant if you want the final word at this stage. It's not like that. First, I would like to vote on the method of procedure and after the voting procedure has been voted on, I will give a break at the meeting of the KSČM. I will ask you, rapporteur, to put forward a draft vote for the procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u218	Thanks for the word. I would like to have the individual proposals voted as they were presented, that is to say, first the motion for a resolution tabled by President Stanjura, then the motion for a resolution, as Mr Fichtner put it, then -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u219	I will enter into this for you, Mr Fichtner's resolution contains two points, and we will vote on these separately.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u220	Yes, separately.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u221	Okay, you may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u222	We'll vote separately. Then this is the proposal made by Mr Okamura, who also made two points on which we will vote separately, and then this is the motion for a resolution by President Kováčik - and they will be voted? [[- As you wish.]] They will be voted, as the President says, as you wish. That means if no one else suggests otherwise, they'll vote together. And here I am adopting President Stanjura's proposal that the resolution tabled by President Stanjura also proposes to vote separately.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u223	Okay, that means I'm just gonna do it again for the record. Mr Kováčik's motion for a resolution together. [[Rapporteur: Yes.]] And Mr Stanjura's motion for a resolution as well as two separate resolutions. [[Rapporteur: Yes.]] Okay. So at this point, I will vote on the procedure for voting. I don't see any other counterproposal. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the proposal, as the rapporteur has put it, to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against the proposal? It is a vote with order number 5, with 131 Members registered, for proposal 106, against 1. I'm of the opinion that the draft procedure has been approved. And before we vote on the various motions for resolutions, at the request of the KSČM club, I am declaring a 20-minute break with the fact that we will continue at 21.13. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u224	Three minutes. Three minutes. KSČM club, please, to the club area right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u225	21.03 correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u226	Ladies and gentlemen, the time for a break is up and we will continue to discuss this point. We have an approved procedure. I'm registering Mr. Kováčik's application. It's not like that. In that case, we shall proceed to the vote. So I'm going to sign you off first, because I'm registering a request for your check-out. I'm gonna ask you to sign up with your cards again. I will call my colleagues and colleagues from the lobby to attend the vote. And now, rapporteur, I will ask you to take the floor and conduct us through the voting procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u227	Thank you for the floor, too. First, we will vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by President Stanjura. We will therefore vote separately on two parts of the resolution. I always read that part, and then we should vote on it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u228	Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u229	This means that we will vote: "The Chamber of Deputies notes that Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš repeatedly lied in his public appearances and abused his media to compromise political opponents."
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u230	Thank you. I'm opening the vote and asking who's in favour of the motion to press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It's a vote with order number 6. 118 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 94, against 21. I am of the opinion that this proposal has been approved. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u231	The second part of the resolution reads: "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the President of the Czech Republic, Miloš Zeman, to respect the Constitution of the Czech Republic consistently and without undue delay in carrying out his duties.'
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u232	Thank you. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 7. 119 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 95, against 4. The proposal has also been approved. Please, we can continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u233	We will also vote on the proposal made by Mr Fichtner and it also has two parts on which we will vote separately. The first part is: "The Chamber of Deputies notes that Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka failed to perform his duties when he put the interests of the Czech Social Democratic Party ahead of the interests of the citizens of the Czech Republic, destabilized the Czech Republic and sparked a government and constitutional crisis by his actions."
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u234	I'm opening the vote and asking who's in favour of the motion to press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It's a vote with order number 8. 119 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 25, against 33. This proposal was rejected. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u235	The second part of the resolution is: "The Chamber of Deputies calls on Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka to give up his office immediately and allow the so far successful government of the Czech Republic to complete its mandate until the proper elections."
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u236	Thank you. Initiating vote. I ask who's in favour of the suggestion that he press the button and raise his hand. Who's against the proposal? It's a vote with order number 9. 119 Members and Members are registered, in favour of proposal 10, against 66. This proposal was rejected. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u237	I also have here Mr Okamura's proposal, which will also be voted in two parts. The first part is: "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Prime Minister to comply with his public declaration of resignation, and asks the President of the Republic to accept, in accordance with the Constitution for Government Demissions."
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u238	I'm opening the vote and asking who's in favour of the motion to press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It's a vote with order number 10. 119 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 9, against 51. This proposal was rejected. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u239	The second part of the resolution is: 'The Chamber of Deputies invites the President of the Republic to clarify its positions on the constitutional solution to the current government crisis'.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u240	I'm opening the vote and asking who's in favour of the motion to press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It's a vote with order number 11. 119 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 36, against 28. This proposal was rejected. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u241	The last motion for a resolution is the motion for a resolution made by President Kováčik, who will be voted together. I'll read it. The motion for a resolution is: "1. The Chamber of Deputies notes that after the discussion at the 58th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, the government crisis did not resolve but deepened; 2. Asks the Prime Minister to report to the next meeting of the Chamber of Deputies without undue delay on the process of dealing with the government crisis."
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u242	Thank you. Initiating vote. I ask who's in favour of the suggestion that he press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 12. 119 Members and Members are registered, in favour of proposal 77, against 26. This proposal has been approved. Thank you, rapporteur. About the vote? Please, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u243	Thank you for the floor. It was the vote number eight, it was the first part of my colleague Fichtner's proposal. I checked that I had "stayed" there. I wanted to vote 'yes'. Just for the tape screen, I'm not questioning the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-001-001.u244	Thank you. For the sake of order, I repeat: a resolution has been adopted which we voted first and which was delivered by President Stanjura in paragraphs 1 and 2. Furthermore, a last resolution was adopted by President Kováčik. That's what we've exhausted today's agenda. I thank you all and end the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and end this meeting.
