ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u1	45. Request for consent Chamber of Deputies for criminal prosecution of Mr Andrej Babiš and Member Jaroslav Faltýnek At this point, I am registering for the debate as the first proper application - Mr Chalupa? [[The Member's gesture suggests he's already stepped up.]] So he's already spoken. Next is Mr. František Petrtýl, who I hereby give the floor to. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u2	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, honourable members of the government, Mr President. A lot has already been said about this point today, and I would not like to repeat myself or to repeat myself. I don't want to delay, and I want to be very brief. Let me take a look at this as a member of a mandate and an immune committee who is not a lawyer. And the fact that I'm not a lawyer may have an advantage, because logically, I'm not going to be a great lawyer, but maybe I'm going to give my point of view a more simple and understandable way. As a member of the committee mentioned earlier, when I was able to look into the police request for the extradition of Mr Babiš and Mr Faltýnek, I studied this request for about two hours, and I can say that it seems to me a chronologically aligned list of legal - and I underline this - legal acts, which are given some sort of label of something illegal. [[There's noise in the room.]] Therefore, as a member of this committee, I have used the opportunity to look into the police file where I was with my colleague Procházka, and even after having looked into this file, although it has already been said several times that this file is very extensive and cannot be studied during - we have also been there for about two hours, but I have also found no information in the part that was provided to us that was illegal. So this case seems to me to be a purpose, which will undoubtedly affect the upcoming elections. And let voters decide how it affects them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u3	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Next, Mr. Zdeněk Ondráček, who I hereby give the floor to, will speak with a proper application. I'm gonna ask you to calm down in the hall. The noise level is higher than perhaps pleasant speakers. Once again, thank you for bringing any debates into the foyer. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Dear members of the government, colleagues, and colleagues, I have brought with me four papers, on which I have various remarks, because I will respond partly to previous speeches by my colleagues, and I will partially sum up my position on this matter. If I mention the very beginning, it has been said several times that the case is timed to harm the ANO Chair and the ANO Chair before the elections and that the police authority did not have to do so and did not have to do so and could wait for the elections. When we acted on the Constitutional Legal Committee, there was also a discussion about when - and what happened here during today's debate - this act would be the right time to do so. When to present the charges. And if it's the two months, or it's a longer period of time, the Minister of Justice on the Constitutional Legal Committee said something about six months. [[14.50 hours]] I would like your attention, as a former police officer, who was also accused of deliberately and intentionally reporting charges to someone at a time when it was not appropriate for him, that man celebrated his life's round anniversary of his 50th birthday and was given a resolution on the initiation of criminal prosecution. I would like to read Section 160 of the Criminal Code to you, the initiation of a criminal prosecution where it is stated: If the investigation under Section 158 indicates that a criminal offence has been committed, and if it is sufficient to justify the conclusion that a person has committed it, the police authority will decide - and now the important word - immediately that the prosecution of that person as accused is initiated, unless there is reason to proceed under Section 159 or 159b of the Criminal Code. Paragraph 159a is the postponement of the case and another procedure that this negotiation could be an offence, and Section 159b is the temporary suspension of the prosecution, which will be applied in the case of a criminal organisation for the purpose of revealing further ties. There's never anything in that paragraph 159b about politics or that it's not appropriate and it wouldn't be important in time. So, the police department, if by doing this investigation, he found out the facts that told him to initiate the prosecution, he acted in accordance with the Code of Criminal Procedure and immediately wanted to initiate the prosecution. By being persons under Section 10 of the Criminal Code, he had to ask the Chamber of Deputies for this procedure. I would like to say that if the police authority had not acted in this way, he himself could have committed a crime of abuse of the authority of an official person, because it would be hard to say why he chose another procedure and why he did not do so. But you might have a different opinion. I'm saying that if we're to have an independent police officer, he doesn't have to look at the period of time, who's the person against whom he's prosecuting, and he's supposed to do what the law says. So that's just why it was supposed to happen that the operation was carried out. Mr. Vice-President, currently managing Radek Vondráček said that from his point of view, the lawyer thought that the investigation would take, and he said some weeks and months and actually saw some delays in it. If he was a state's attorney, either a model or a supervisor, he would definitely take it, but he doesn't have that position. And the prosecutor who supervised the investigation, which is the city prosecutor, and the prosecutor, perhaps Mrs. State's attorney Bradáčová, who supervised the surveillance, was supposedly nowhere - I didn't see the materials, but I'm based on the public media - they didn't find out that the police authority was making delays, or if they found out that it was on the verge, they said it was a problem of the proceedings, or of the parties that are being investigated. So I don't know what my colleague is saying. But I made a little comment here at his second performance, and I'm not gonna comment any more, I wrote down my note of a decent dart, like he's jumping decent darts to his leadership. I'm gonna let it go, 'cause I don't think it's gonna do any good. My colleague Vondráček, who is not here now but also mentioned this, mentioned the decision of the Supreme Court, which says that it should be initiated if with a higher degree of probability. I understand he quoted the Supreme Court's decision. But why is a higher degree of probability of a crime being committed in the case of persons who are being prosecuted, that is, in the case of Members of Parliament? Why is such faith not to be more likely to commit a crime, the same in all? After all, the persons we issue to prosecute with our consent are not, and it has been said several times, not anything more than ordinary citizens. So I think that the level of higher probability in initiating criminal prosecutions and reporting charges should be the same for everyone, and we should not be dividing people into categories of ordinary citizen, MP, senator or someone else who has parliamentary immunity. Minister Pelikán said in one brief entry that - and I dare to quote, because I wrote it down stenographically immediately: I have no influence on the course of criminal proceedings, and I am proud of it. It was his short gig. I am glad that it does not affect the course of criminal proceedings, that he is proud of it, but I know for sure that the Minister of Justice has had an impact on the state of justice, because he has been Minister of Justice for more than two and a half years, and I don't know if he can be proud of what everything has succeeded in the Ministry of Justice. And it was also mentioned here: the new penal code - the commission's work suspended or not working. We're gonna enforce the State's Attorney's Office -- zero. And maybe I could keep going, experts, interpreters and others, but I don't want to be here just for the criticism. I liked the Minister saying that he had the right as a citizen at the same time and that he didn't find any reason to report the charges. Well, it's not important if the Minister found him, it's important if he was found by the police authority and the prosecutor who oversees it, and then by the prosecutor who oversees the matter, because they're law enforcement authorities. And the Minister, me, none of you are in that position here, and we can think what we want about this case, like I think what I want about it, too, because a lot of other cases have been reported here. Recalls, my colleague, light heating oils, mentioned several times OKD, we could mention Mostecká carbonná, Poldi Kladno, was mentioned Opencard, we could mention sales of Hybernian barracks, purchase of parachutes, aircraft CASA, pandury and other cases. What goes on for many politicians over the past 20 years, and for what, at least, it presents it that way, was created by the ANO movement and why it may be so popular with the public, because of these cases that nobody talks about or talks about, but nobody does, the public knows, and there is a problem. I understand the YES movement that it talks about these cases and asks when the Prime Minister will testify in court in the position of the defendant, not as a witness, just for OKD. But respectable colleagues from the YES movement, if you would like something like this, why not support our proposal from the KSČM workshop, when we demand the indispensability of some crimes during the great privatisation period? After all, every year some of our cases go into silence, and we will never be able to return to them. I mean, you guys were the ones who said you wanted to wipe out the barn that's here, but when it comes to a particular vote, you don't raise your hand for the proposal. So I'm asking if your fight against corruption and all the iniquities that have been here are really real. Because a real fight would also manifest itself by raising your hand, and say yes, let's fight, let's have some cases, if it's still a little bit possible, you need to reopen and uncover. Unfortunately, there is no such situation. I think that Mr Chalupa, who, I have written here, and forgive me for the expression, described the mess that is here. I would just like to say, Mr Chalupa, through Mr President, even though he is not here now, I congratulate you on finally seeing it and seeing it. The question is, are we gonna do something about it? Mr Chalupa also raised the question of who will be responsible. And maybe you don't know some of the cases you might know. [[15.00 hours]] I'd like to The general inspection of the security forces could also speak for a long time. How they can bet in a restaurant that they're able to do anyone, blame any cop, basically knock him to his knees. And there are people from the police you know, colleagues from the ANO movement, who are close to you who could tell you how their family members were destroyed. And no one's ever been responsible for that. No one ever. If anything, the guy's promoted. A case was mentioned, which we investigated in the framework of the reorganisation or organizational changes in the Police of the Czech Republic during the merger of ÚOKFK and ÚOOZ. So nobody's ever responsible. And that's why the condition is here. It is not the responsibility of anyone who may be prosecuting purposefully. Not even the prosecutor who acts as he does, for example in the case of Opencard and other cases. Not even the judge who decides what he decides when he makes a decision three or four times, and the higher court orders him back with instructions and he doesn't respect them. We just don't have to be responsible for the fucking job. And that's why the condition is what it is. And as long as no one does anything about it, that's what the condition will be. Inside the police, which, although outwardly, looks like apolitical, has not been a politician for a long time since, because each of these parties, sitting here in power, has inside their police officers, their people who are willing to do anything for anything, or for any other reason. And when they end their active service, someone can take good care of them too. And we could mention certain colonels, maybe even generals who just did the fucking job and then either got promoted for it or were sent somewhere else. But they're cases that I think are generally known, and that's why the state is. I can't comment on the file, I'm not a member of the mandate and immunity committee, I didn't see anything. Unless, of course, the request is running again in public space and is available. Some journalists can get to it, and they can share it with the public. So, thanks to the press, I've read or I've seen the application. I do not want to evaluate it in terms of content whether the legal features of the facts of the offence are fulfilled, the objective aspect and the most frequently mentioned subjective aspect of the offence to blame. Because it has been mentioned several times that we are not the ones to decide guilt and punishment. All we have to do is decide whether or not to give up our two fellow Members for criminal prosecution. The fact that it will damage the public's eyes, that it will damage them in their personal lives, you can take the blame for that. It will damage them as much as it will harm them in the event of the charges being made against a police officer, the mayor of the village, the doctor, anyone else who is more familiar with who is publicly active. That always makes it worse. And it was mentioned here that if we didn't have immunity, it could go quietly and then something would be solved. It would never happen quietly in the Czech Republic, because he would always say that the Member is being prosecuted, and perhaps the media would know that even before the statements of charges were received to the Members or Members. The speeches of the two Members to be delivered have been mentioned. Mr Faltýnek spoke of a matter of time. He spoke of this particular police officer, his professionalism, his impartiality. I don't know the verdict he quoted, but that confirms what I'm saying. That if someone doesn't do something in a good enough job and even brings it to the attention of the court in their judgment, then basically nothing ever happens and the person goes on. So we, if we ever want to change and resolve something in the future, must also call for the responsibility of the person who acts and possibly with the intention of harming someone. The shortcomings of the request and the intention to do so. I understand Mr Faltýnek wants to tell us here, but we are unable to judge. Because we didn't see it. Mr President, this is a strong room for your defence. And use your rights. When you have a statement of charges with these actions, or with these objections that you have said, you will certainly find your space there. And Mr Babiš said that the investigator told him that if you weren't a politician, no one would investigate the case of the Cape Nest. You're probably right. Because it is sometimes, because I believe that there are several similar cases in the Czech Republic, say, maybe tens. I might even say that in my neighborhood, I would have seen at least one or two similar cases as well. But no one is investigating these cases because the person - first of all, there was no alleged anonymous criminal report, and the person is not a publicly active person. Maybe it's your bad luck that you went into politics and got caught up in a ten-year-old case. But this selective selection is the same example as when you have a ban on stopping on the estate, and the ban on stopping costs ten or fifteen cars as standard, because they have nowhere to stand. And you get yourself a better car, you stand in that restraining order, and that officer or that cop walks by, and that one shoe, or that one parking lot is put behind that one single wiper, or one single vehicle, selectively. Of course you can see it that way. Of course, I would like the Police of the Czech Republic to prove that this should be a crime - and I, of course, honor the presumption of innocence, so I speak if it should be a crime, and I can think of any of the publicly available sources, whether it is or not. So if she did the same thing, she measured everyone else on the same metro, and I would very much like it if we could clear this environment and prosecute all infringements. In the case of a car parked badly, there's only one way that you wouldn't want anyone getting that parking lot there: you can remove the ban on stopping and make a standard parking lot there. That's the fastest solution. Here we could say there's been an end to the crime, which could already be a matter of prosecutors. It might also be some solution I'm not leading to, of course. I am pleased that both Members have said that they are in favour of their extradition, that they want to clear their name during the examination, or investigation, and I would like to say to both of you: Believe that I have been an investigator for 17 years and I never advise the other side, but you may be on the other side now. Paragraph 33 teaches the accused a lesson. The accused has the right to comment on all the facts he is to be blamed for, the evidence obtained of them, but is not obliged to testify. Try to think about what I have said when you are sometimes taught about this sentence. I will vote in favour of your release because your case has nothing to do with the performance of your mandate. But I wish you, if you prove your innocence, also to be able to clear your name as it was given to Mr Svoboda. And if we are here in the Chamber of Deputies and the next parliamentary term, try to think about it and support some of the proposals from the KSČM workshop that are good and can contribute to the purification of this society, the state that is here in 27 years. For example, the indispensability of crimes during the great privatisation period. For example, showing the origin of the property not only by taxation, but by the complete seizure of such property. And other things and other things that we could discuss. If anyone wants to fight, they must fight not only in argumentative terms and words here in the Chamber of Deputies, but also by raising their hand for a specific proposal that can change this matter. I wish you the best of luck in your work.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And with priority rights, the Minister of Justice, to whom I hereby give the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Mr Ondráček for this unexpectedly open and honest speech that he has had here, which has been very disturbing in terms of conditions particularly in the Police of the Czech Republic. But there's one thing I have to say. Ladies and gentlemen, do not relieve your conscience by saying that you are not here to judge anything. That's not true. It doesn't work that every time the cops ask for someone, the House automatically releases them. The House is supposed to make decisions about the request. And to make decisions about her, she shouldn't be doing it the way that, I'm afraid, it's gonna happen anyway. See if I can use it. That means whether the request is directed against someone who is my political opponent, or even, God forbid, has even greater preferences. You should decide if the request is funded. If it's justified. If the police force has convinced you that he has grounds for criminal prosecution, as defined in the Code of Criminal Procedure. If you raise your hand for it, you're saying yes, I think he has the reasons. I'm the one who made sure of it. You have to judge this. You can't say one day a court will judge. And I repeat what I said. I didn't find the reasons in the complaint. It is true that it doesn't matter whether I found them there or not, because by not being an MP, I won't even vote on it. But I haven't heard anyone here quote them from the application. I say I see them there. You should at least answer that question for yourself before you raise your hand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u7	Thank you. Now with a technical remark by Mr Zdeněk Ondráček, then by Mr Jiří Koubek, then by Mr Blažek. So, your two minutes on the verdict.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u8	Thank you. Minister, we cannot agree because you view this as a lawyer. But who in this 200 - member congregation has such ability to study a file if he had access to it, to be able to know it and to assess whether it constitutes the legal features of the offence in question? I can do it, but can the other 199 colleagues do it? Maybe five, six, seven, maybe ten could do it. But can anybody do it? I said I'd be up for extradition. I have not seen the case, but I know that it does not relate to the work of a Member of Parliament of the Czech Republic for speeches and, where appropriate, to the work that is related to the performance of the mandate of the Member. And if it's a different crime and a different crime assessment, then the courts will decide. If it were for speeches here in the Chamber of Deputies, I would not be satisfied with the recommendation given to me by my colleague, a member of the mandate and immune committee, but I would certainly like to study the file very carefully, because I certainly know how to look in such a file. But three and a half thousand sheets, or as many as Standa said it was, so it's definitely not a half day job or a day job. That's the analytical work for, say, three or four days. For me, I know my way around it, and I know what I'm supposed to read. But none of you, and I don't want to touch you so much, you really don't know what's in that file. Let us consider whether this is related to the exercise of the mandate or not. That's why I said how I'm gonna vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for keeping time. Mr. Jiří Koubek will be next, Mr. Blažek will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u10	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'd like to answer to Minister Pelikán what convinced me when he asked us. Andrej Babiš, who wrote this to me on 13 April, convinced me: "I think the immunity of Members is completely unnecessary and obsolete. Apart from immunity to the statements made in the House, nothing else should apply. Members are not superiors." Minister, Andrej Babiš is not a superhuman, he wants to be released, so let's give him up. Why are you talking, yes, why are you bouncing around here?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u11	I would ask that, if possible, we address each other correctly and leave out some of the concepts. Mr Pavel Blažek will be next.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u12	Hello, thank you for your word. I'll just follow up on the Minister of Justice. I don't agree with him that we're supposed to be judging some of the fundraisers of the application. Immunity serves, now I'm gonna simplify it, basically, to two things. Firstly, so that the Member is not afraid to speak and his freedom of expression is protected from the authorities of the State, in particular the executive power. Well, basically, I'd say the other reason is not to abuse criminal law in politics itself. And that's what we're supposed to be judging. This means, for example, if the sentence was said here: The Minister of the Interior called then and then or ordered the investigators 'now you must accuse Andrej Babiš because it suits us', that is exactly the case where it cannot be published. But if there is no such fact, then I, even if I am a lawyer, am unable to judge whether or not the prosecution is justified. And the only one who's gonna do it in the end will be the prosecutors and the court. But let's not confuse that we're supposed to be judging some kind of demand fundraising. My colleague Ondráček was absolutely right. And now it's not just about lawyers, it's about a lot and a lot of time, and that's not what we're here for. So I'm saying again, if this criminal trial, which is initiated on the basis of our decision, or not, should be an abuse of police activity in a political struggle, then, of course, I'll be the first to want the heads of those who caused it. But so far, it's on the level of some chat, there's no evidence. And that's all we have to judge.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now, with the factual remark of Mrs Černochová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u14	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I don't think the Minister of Justice was here when we were discussing some of your colleagues' statements from the ANO movement. Specifically, the statements that took place here at a time when you weren't the Minister of Justice. It was during the release of Mr. Svoboda Professor in 2014. So your opinion here really seems to be unique in the YES movement, because maybe your Vice-President Věra Jourová also said during the release of Mr Svoboda: "I have a moral dilemma. I will vote in favour of the extradition of Mr Svoboda, because the ANO movement clearly states that it does not agree with the Institute of Immunity. If we hadn't made it clear, I probably wouldn't have raised my hand for it." Mr Martin Komárek, who has long been reporting for a proper debate, said here: "No, ladies and gentlemen, it is only because we are solidarity with citizens who do not have the immunity institute and cannot appeal to any House and must go through the police and judicial procedure and clear themselves. So we just don't want to be more equal with equals." Well, maybe repeat your performance when you have another ANO club meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u15	Thank you, Madame. Now with a point of fact, President Kalousek, then Minister Zaorálek. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to politely disagree with Mr Ondráček's statement, who addressed the Minister of Justice in the sentence: Mr Minister, you are looking at this as a lawyer. I don't think so. The Minister of Justice is looking at this thing as a Pelikán. I'm sure you do. But as a lawyer, I believe not. And I've never heard anyone in the professional legal community think so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u17	Thank you. Now, with a factual remark, the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u18	I would like to remind the Minister of Justice once more - hello - that the role of the Minister of Justice is such that he should create the prerequisites for the criminal proceedings to be legal. That's your job. That's what you were supposed to do for years. Then what are we afraid of here? Why are we debating for an hour? Then why don't we vote? Why are we afraid of Mr. Babiš and Faltýnek and you're afraid to put him in the hands of justice? Because you feel like you don't have control over it? That you just can't guarantee it? Well, that must scare the citizens of this country a little bit. If you, as Minister of Justice, have any doubts that this lawsuit is really legal, and you're the one with the greatest responsibility today, well, that's bad. That must scare the citizens pretty bad. Or maybe there's a second option, of course, and that's the option that Mr. Babiš is afraid of the evidence and he doesn't want us to get to it. There are no other two options. Either there's a fear of a citizen getting into the hands of this system - and you in charge of it, and the prosecutor, he's actually in control of legality, he's actually the guarantor of the criminal proceedings. You're closest to them in the government. So you're still here to tell us that you have big doubts about what you've been fixing? Well, that's tragic. I'm almost surprised you're scaring the public like that. That we can see here: oh, my proboha, just don't fall into the hands of criminal proceedings! You can't imagine what awaits you there! - So you at least want to protect your people. Of course, normal people will have to bear it! But do you realize the responsibility you're responsible for? So, your thoughts about whether or not we're here to assess whether it's a fundraiser or whether it's a... But that's the prosecutor's business, that doesn't belong to us. So what do they do, these prosecutors you're most responsible for?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u19	Thank you. Mr Matěj Fichtner is now prepared by President Faltýnek with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u20	Thank you. Good afternoon. I'd just like to correct my colleague Blažek. He said the speeches that are here at the counter or in the House's organs are covered by immunity. It's not exactly that. They are not covered by immunity, but by indemnity, i.e. impatience. That means, here at the counter, the MP can say absolutely anything and no one can prosecute him for it. That's the Constitution and the Law. And then the other part, let's say, is complex immunity, and that's immunity as such, i.e. This Member cannot be prosecuted unless the House agrees to do so. He gives his consent on some request, and the House decides. So it is appropriate, when the House decides, to examine the facts on which it decides and how the request is signed, which the police or prosecutor sends to the House. I do not want to go back to the case of Bohuslav Svoboda, but I would just like to remind you briefly that the case today is unrightfully but decided by the court. It must be said that, in favour of Bohuslav Svoboda, I do not know if it is entirely appropriate for our opposition partners to mention this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now, with a factual remark, the chairman of the ANO movement, Mr Faltýnek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u22	I would just - a good afternoon - show Mr Koubek, through the President, what obstruction looks like in the extradition of your Member, my colleague. It has this number of pages when former Minister Kalousek spoke in publishing Mrs Parkanová. [[He's showing a stack of papers.]] I was just quoting about seven sentences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u23	Thank you. Another factual point, Mr Chalupa. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u24	Thank you for the floor. Since I've been here four years in the House, I've been trying not to get involved in things I don't understand. So here's to the Minister of Justice's question... [[Interrupted by laughter in the hall.]] Oh, no, I'm in charge of defense and security. I don't know what you're laughing at. I will not, of course, be responsible for the Minister of Justice, but I would like to ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs if the information contained in the Final Report of the Investigation Commission on the reorganisation of the Police of the Czech Republic did not frighten the Minister. [[The President points out that he does not need to use it]] Or if the Defense Minister's procedure regarding the pseudocussion of alleged military surveillance didn't scare you. Or if you're not scared of the way the taxpayers were robbed in the OKD case. And I could continue with the whole list. You're not scared of that as a member of the government and maybe a member of the State Security Council?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u25	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now, with Mrs Němcová's point of fact, Mr Fiedler will be prepared. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u26	Thank you for the floor. My factual point relates to the opinion of the Attorney General Lenka Bradáčová, who announced that the plaintiffs were not in error. However, the case of the Cape Nest, according to her, takes too long - and I quote from her comment, which was public: "The objections raised in the complaint to exercise supervision by persons acting on behalf of a legal person with a relation to the criminal case under investigation could not be accepted as justified. " Thus, the objections were unfounded from the point of view of the Chief Attorney General, who adds - I quote: "It is undoubtedly a complicated and extensive criminal matter, while at the same time it is possible to record a procedural unwillingness to cooperate from the parties of some private entities that are slowing down the procedure." A comment on Minister Pelikán. I quote his statement for the weekly Respekt: "The police could not have had any reasonable reason to ask the House to waive immunity at this time. I don't need any more facts except that the police did it after a year and a half before the election." Here, Minister Pelikán asks that we become almost investigators and judges in one person. He doesn't need any more facts. I must add that these statements by the Minister rejected both the Police Presidium and, of course, the Union of State's Representatives, which - and I quote from its statement: "As a representative of executive power, the Minister is very political in this matter. The state prosecutors and police are only required to follow the law and there is no politically appropriate time for extradition." It is good to keep these things in mind, because what is still mentioned here about the fact that the police are not doing so we need to know that there is a supervising public prosecutor over it, and that is what the Chief Attorney General is supervising and has given this opinion. [[The President draws attention to the time]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u27	Thank you. The next one will be made with a factual remark by Mr Fiedler. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u28	Thank you for the floor. I would like to respond to the words and answer to Minister Zaorálek. Minister, I think citizens must be most terrified of what they're watching here. That one group blames the other. One, which falls somewhat on the side of the Ministry of the Interior, accuses justice, expresss doubts about how the interior works, doubts about how justice works. I think the citizens who are watching this must be completely appalled at where we got to on the political scene. And they will continue to be appalled because there will be elections, and after the elections, new political pressures will be on who controls the forces of the ministry, who will have the advantage of having the inside hand, who will have the advantage of having justice under his thumb, and other ministries. The citizens must be completely appalled by this. And I am appalled by them, too, because here we are witnessing that essentially the two groups that have so far been in the government coalition are now having a ruthless political struggle here. [[15.30 hours]] You, honourable coalition MPs and the honourable government, have convinced us how successful it was, how well everything worked out, how well everything was. I don't see it here. I see here, I've been seeing two power groups fighting for a long time. I like it, and I like it less and less. And it is no wonder that this is becoming less and less popular with citizens and that they are concerned and appalled by our political scene and the state of our society.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u29	Thank you for keeping the time exactly. That's how we used up the actual notes for this moment. Before I finally give the floor to Mr Martin Komárek, I will read several apologies. The Minister of Finance Ivan Pilný apologizes from 14.30 to 16.00 for work reasons. Mr Vlastimil Vozka apologizes between 14.30 and 22.00 without giving any reason. The Minister of Health has apologized since 14.30 on account of urgent work issues. The President of the KDU-ČSL club, Jiří Mihola, apologizes for the reasons of work for the next meeting of the day. Comrade Komárek, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u30	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not remember extradition requests that would be more senseless, more stupid, where there would be more untrue. The blue team already know that I am not speaking for myself, but I quote a man much more famous and larger - Mr. Miroslav Kalousek from a debate that went on when the House discussed the release of Vlasta Parkanová. This debate could be much shorter if we simply voted after both Babiš and Faltýnek have said masculinely that they will go into hands, I do not want to say quotes, justice. But why am I getting off? Why are colleagues performing? This request is very unusual. This request is very unusual, because it actually comes just before the elections, coming at the earliest possible time before the elections. I repeat, because I answer to colleagues and colleagues who accuse us of being obsessed, which, of course, is bullshit, I'm sorry. As you know, I'm not running and I speak for myself. I know I can't convince you. I know this environment doesn't listen to arguments. I know this environment doesn't believe in honesty. But believe me, I speak from the heart. When the press asked me about 170 relatively pointless polls, how I'm going to vote, whether I did or not, I always said I couldn't vote until I met the extradition request. And I've always supplied: no Member worthy of that name can say it in advance until he knows the application. I, of course, will not be as harsh as Mr Kalousek was about the extradition application for Vlasta Parkanová, because he could actually be competent, as my colleague Ondráček, an institution active in criminal proceedings would say, or an appropriate cop, as I would say. But I actually read the request, word by word, honestly. And believe me, if a vet sent me this request and wanted me to bring my dog Oskar to a proper tour, I wouldn't have brought Oskar there. You know why? Because I'd be sure Oskar would die there. Don't die or die. Dogs can die too, by the way. [[Fun in the hall. Screams from ČSSD benches.]] Because the request, which has so many formal shortcomings, shows that the policeman has deep disrespect for us Members. But the devil took the MPs. I am really in favour of being limited to political speeches, and I will insist, even as a mere citizen and parasite, that is, a businessman. [[Reactions in the O.R.]] But this is an extremely unusual situation where, just before the election, we get a vague request written in haste, where there isn't one piece of evidence. I don't think a person who doesn't ask these questions is normal. Ladies and gentlemen, if you haven't asked yourself these questions, you are not normal. I'm sorry, but you're not normal. I don't have to be a former commentator to ask myself these questions. Please, let's put them back before the vote, read the report. I wanted to quote from her for a long time, it's not necessary, she's already on the Internet. And I'm glad he's on the Internet, because all people who want to read it can read it and judge it, i.e. judge from a human point of view, not from an inquisitional or judicial point of view. Ladies and gentlemen, I repeat, I know it won't change anything, I know you won't believe me, I know you won't think, but I said it more or less for myself, so I don't care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u31	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Next, with a proper contribution to the debate, Mr Procházka. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a good day. As a member of the mandate and immunity committee, I have a certain information advantage against you, so I would like to share my point of view with you, and I hope to move it a little bit into the material plane. To begin with, I would like to say that I very much appreciate the work of police and individual police officers. I know a lot of them personally, I know how hard their jobs are. And I've always tried to help them out of my position. That's why when I talk about the police here, I really mean just this one case that we're dealing with today. When I read the application for the extradition of our two Members, I didn't believe my eyes a bit. At first glance, it looks like a carefully developed essay, but if we focus on specific things, it doesn't make sense to me anymore. That's why I wanted to look into the police file so I could understand the investigator's mental processes and see if what was written in the application was supported by any evidence at all. The whole file, and it's been said here, has about 3,500 pages, is stored in 18 files. I'm pointing out that the file isn't in any continuous order. I'd say the policeman's got it all lined up more emotionally thematically: one social worker's shamon, the other shamon's expert opinion and so on. I only got 14 files from the 18. I have to say, I thought it was more like an investigator's bag, which is more or less consistent with the application, which I also told the investigator, and he confirmed it to me more or less. I would also point out that we were forced to sign confidentiality on the mandate committee, which I do not think is a very common practice, and it happened to me for the first time in four years. However, of course, I asked what was in the four classified files. According to the interview with the police officer, there should be the following documents: there should be correspondence with the tax office, some tax returns, profit and loss accounts and so on; there should be a file on Olaf in the second file, so I don't know what it is, but it will be more of a public source; In the third file, there is communication with banks, which means the investigator addresses all the banks operating in our territory and finds out who has the account and how much money there is and so on; and only in the last fourth file is the main evidence. That's very interesting, because it's supposed to be an expert opinion to prove that there's been a crime. I don't know if there's anything else in there, but the police officer told me that this is exactly the evidence he needed and who actually decided that he had written up an extradition application. [[15.40 hours]] So I logically asked why this expert opinion is different from other expert opinions that are stored in other free 14 files. The answer surprised me a little, because he told me that it was because he was processed according to the information he himself provided, which I think means that if the police don't have proof, he's probably gonna make it by entering an expert opinion. I'm pointing out that we had confidentiality, and we didn't get an opinion, or a prosecutor, or a police officer basically didn't tell us the contents. The prosecutor, when he testified at MIV, expressed himself as saying that there is a higher degree of likelihood of a criminal offence. As an unlawyer, I think it's just that there isn't. Clear proof. All other documents in the public section of the file are more or less in the description of objective legal acts to be made. I think they probably did, but I think they have a different explanation than the policeman says. I think it's far more believable than what the police are declaring. Plus, there's doubt and suspicion that the evidence the police may have at their disposal, but it doesn't fit her design, so she just kept it a secret. I refer, of course, to what both Members have said in their defence. Because I think that if the police admitted the evidence, the whole design of the crime would completely collapse, which, of course, leads me to further suspect that there might be another motive. I'll share some more questions with you from the policeman's discussion when I went to the file and I think that both questions and answers are quite interesting. It is not just two Members in the application, but there are 11 people who are potentially ready to be charged. I was wondering if Members were the main suspects in this matter. The answer was no. Then I asked if it was necessary for the investigation to be charged with our two Members, as well. The answer was no. Whether the police conducted further investigations or obtained further evidence after the request was sent. The answer was no. Then I was wondering if they'd already told anyone the charges, because there should be a prime perpetrator among the others. The answer was no. Then I wondered why they were asking for Members, as it happens, two months before the election, when their immunity ends in two months. It is possible that there will be a new one, but of course it is not entirely certain. And especially if they get immunity, they're gonna have to stop the whole thing, and they're gonna have to start all over again. The answer was interesting: the police must act immediately, immediately and without delay. But I ask again why the police do not act when they can act and should act. Why, in fact, only a few days before the elections, it affects elections by asking for Members and continuing to do so in those other cases. I'd make a little detour here, and we've already talked about it here, and that's the ROP Northwest. I think this is where the police went the other way, and I think it's the right way. Sometime last year, I suspect it was in November, the police picked up 24 people, continued to investigate, obtained a number of court decisions on this matter in the first, and even in the second instance, and only when they were 100% sure of their procedure, they asked for the extra two Members. That is what I think is the right course of action, which we can, in fact, not object to, except perhaps, the possible political influence, because one of the Members has become the number one candidate, and the other one just wanted to run for some sports organization. But in this case of ours, which we have here today, it is quite the opposite. I do not think immunity should be for the protection of each individual Member. Immunity First and foremost Protects The House as a whole, in front of the outside, like the police attack, and so that the police don't start making a torn-out calendar out of the MPs. The police, if they ask for the House, they must be charged with the population, they must be absolutely sure, and not just a little bit certain with a certain degree of probability as in this case. Then I also think a lot of you are mayors, deputy mayors, councillors, deputies. We must probably realize that if we accept this argument of the police that is being put forward in our application, then basically whenever in any way in your capacity you adjust the intention of the municipality to comply with the conditions of the subsidy, and I think it is quite common, because you always have to comply with the conditions of the subsidy, so it can be said that with a certain degree of probability you are becoming frauders and will probably be prosecuted. And frankly, what you're dealing with in your benches as two motions for a resolution, any skilled lawyer can write it down on each of you in a few days, or more or less on each of you in a few days, from public sources. I'm definitely not saying that the police shouldn't save money to save money and collect evidence. I think that in two months there may be a completely different evidence situation, which is why I think we should reject this request and give the police enough time to complete the file and make a possible request to the new House. I just don't believe in such odd coincidences. I think that the time connection to the elections is too great, and I think that the elections should be decided by voters and not by some policeman in Prague. Therefore, as a member of the mandate committee, I strongly recommend rejecting both extradition requests. The last thing I would like to say is that you have two resolutions of the mandate and immunity committee on your table. When there was a pause, I watched television for a while, and I saw in the headline that Mrs Němcová, as chairman of the committee, should have said that the mandate and immunity committee issued the two Members unanimously. I was looking at the shade. I must say, Mrs. Němcová certainly didn't say that. She merely said that the mandate and immune committee adopted these two resolutions unanimously. The vote alone on the extradition or non-release of Members was not unanimous. I have this feeling that if I remember the numbers well, in one case it was about 10:4 and in the other it was probably 9:5. But I can't vouch for these exact numbers. It was approximately in these ratios. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u33	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Your performance raised several factual points. First, Mrs Němcová, then Mr Blažek, then Mr Kučera. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u34	Thank you for the floor. I must say that I have listened with quite a great deal not to vote for the speech of my fellow Member, Mr Procházka, because I believe that he has not taken up the role of a member of the mandate and immunity committee, as I would have anticipated. The mandate and immunity committee shall act in public by law. What he's getting is private information. They are therefore not intended for the public. It seems to me that, with this speech, the Member wanted to provide information which he should not have provided in this way so that he could even obstruct the course of what is to happen if: The Chamber of Deputies will issue both Members to prosecute, which I do not anticipate. Let's see how definitely the House is. But if Mr Procházka says that the two resolutions, I understood that he somehow devalued them and questioned them, he himself voted for them, the ones you have put forward, as the other representatives of the YES on the mandate and immune committee. The fact that we are then adopting another resolution, the recommendation of the Chamber of Deputies, is that it was not unanimous. I was talking about these two, and you didn't say a word about the sentence that you said here that every skilled lawyer would write this on each of you when I repeatedly asked if anyone wanted to comment on this resolution, they had some counterproposal, they wanted to amend it, they wanted to modify it. You have not responded to any such call and voted in favour of these resolutions. I think that you have not taken the right action, as it is appropriate and appropriate, in the capacity of a Member of the Chamber of Deputies as a member of the mandate and immunity committee. I'm sorry to say this, because I've tried to run as closely as possible with you as I have with the other members. It is also witnessed by our vote over the four years, when we have more or less come to an agreement, no controversial things have taken place there. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] This was over the line!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u35	Thank you. Mr Blažek, then President Kučera, and Mr Ondráček will be prepared. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u36	Thank you for the floor. I will simply freely follow up on my colleague, Mrs Němcová, and I will just explain why it is absolutely wrong if there is a non-public hearing to tell the story here afterwards. Now, aside from the side, whether it's legal or illegal, I think there's two reasons. If there is a non-public act, then it is not possible to selectively choose the things that are said there, because the rest of us are unable to assess whether it is taken out of context, not what was said there, etc. But the other one, and much more seriously, is that if anyone can say something about private negotiations, of course, they speak more freely and say some information that they would not say if they knew they were going to go public somewhere. And if you want the next time, the cops, the prosecutor, and I don't know who all came in and said, "I'm not gonna tell you anything, you're gonna talk everything out, and he'd be right, then this kind of act is totally meaningless." Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u37	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now President Kučera, then Mr Ondráček. Hang on, I'll reset your time. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u38	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I have been quite patient today listening to the ANO Members, in particular, who clearly testified in their speeches that they are the ones with double standards. When it comes to their representatives, they defend him very much when it comes to someone else, they call him part of the hydra, corruption, etc. What has been said here many times by the gentlemen of Babiš and Faltýnek. What I can't really keep quiet about is my previous speaker's speech, who has been putting pressure on both the police and the prosecutor's office by his layman's interpretation here. I see that he is a member of the mandate committee, but his qualifications are, I believe, the director of the museum, so I really don't know where he gets the qualifications to evaluate the work of the police here, to evaluate the work of the prosecutor, and to share information that should remain within the mandate and immune committee. If you'll excuse him, he's not really a lawyer, he's a museum director.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u39	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for keeping time. Now, with Mr Ondráček's factual remark, Mr Votava will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u40	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, when I was performing, I forgot one thing that was mentioned by Vice-President Radek Vondráček of the House, but now I was reminded by Mr Procházka. Where did you, please, figure out what you're putting on this microphone that if someone starts a prosecution today, and two months later, there will be a new election and a new mandate that this prosecution will come to an end and all acts in the event of a new extradition will have to be repeated? I mean, that's not true. That's not true. I don't understand why the Vice-President says that as a lawyer, a member of the Czech Bar Association. With you, I'd understand, you may have just reproduced it, but there's no such truth. Just the actions that will be carried out after the prosecution is initiated will be valid, if a new mandate is created, there will be an obstacle, he will have to ask again for the extradition of both Members, or one, it will simply be decided by someone, and the actions will continue. So don't let the public know that they're going to be holding police authorities for two months, or 45 days remaining until the election, something completely unnecessary. It's not true.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u41	Thank you. Unfortunately, I can't respond. Mr Votava, Mr Procházka will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u42	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, colleagues, I am fascinated by one thing at a time. Some who were called in so they looked at the file. And they say, I have looked into the file, I have not found it complete, virtually. I find it incomplete that there is no evidence that some evidence is missing, that the file needs to be completed. That's what my honored colleague Mr. Procházka said. Well, three and a half thousand pages, if I've read somewhere, 18 files, I'm sorry, but such a person is a genius. And I feel inferior that I can't do this. Really.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u43	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now, with a factual remark from Mr Procházka, Mr Chalupa will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u44	Thank you for the floor. Only to your esteemed fellow Němcová through you. You misunderstood me. Of course I voted in favour of the two resolutions. What you were referring to, I was saying that a similar request we got here, so any skilled lawyer can also write it from public sources to other people. I didn't criticize the two resolutions at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u45	Thank you for your speed, too. Mr Chalupa, then Mrs Válková, will make another comment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u46	Thank you for the floor. I understand, of course, what has fallen here, but I have understood it so that criminal proceedings are not stopped, but the processes of this House stop, and after the election of the new House, the procedural issues of the House's extradition will actually be repeated. That's how I understood it. And as for what has been said here, it seems hypocritical to me because I remember sitting here on that bench when the report of the Czech Police Reorganization Committee came forward, as you didn't pay any attention to the content of the report at all, but as you interpreted it politically to suit you, completely manipulatively, distortedly, etc. So don't lecture the Members who are on the committees of inquiry on how to express themselves. I'm educated, and if I'm gonna be here again, for me, it was such a school that I'm gonna remember it all my life, what you guys did with that report!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u47	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now, with Mrs Válková's point of view. With the replacement card number 88, Mr Gabrhel votes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u48	Mr President, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, just to be clear. The inadmissibility of the prosecution is regulated in § 11 para. 1 and we are particularly interested in the points. (c) and, of course, it may not be completely understandable for an unlawyer, but since we are talking about this, here is the exclusion of the case where it is only temporary exclusion from the jurisdiction of law enforcement authorities. You will find the specific wording. I can say quickly that it is a person who is excluded from the jurisdiction of law enforcement bodies pursuant to § 10 or a person whose prosecution requires consent under the law, unless such consent has been given by an authorised authority, unless it is temporary - and this is important - exemption or if the criminal prosecution of a person for lack is temporarily inadmissible. And then in that provision, Section 10, it's refined. So, of course, what's done doesn't fall under the table when I say it to the public, and it's tied up, the law enforcement authority can use it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u49	Thank you, we've dealt with factual points. I'll read an apology. Mr Vojtěch Adam apologizes from 16 o'clock until the end of the day for health reasons. Mr Fichtner will be the next to appear with a proper application. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u50	Thank you for the floor after six, seven hours. It's been said a lot by my previous speakers, so I'm probably not going back to the things that have already been said here. I'm just gonna give you a look at the case. I learned about the case of the Capi Nest, or I registered it the moment there was an article in the paper about somebody filing some criminal charges against Andrej Babiš for Chapi's hnízdo, if I remember correctly. It's been a while. Then it kind of fizzled out, and for a long time nothing happened, and the newspapers always kind of got back to it easy. Then there was a report that OLAF was also saving, and now the police's request for extradition of Andrej Babiš and Jaroslav Faltýnek to prosecute. I was a little surprised by that Jaroslav Faltýnek there, because I thought it was directed only at Andrej Babiš, but I took it as any other request that came to the mandate and immune committee. That means I met the application. A colleague of Plíšek came after me, so he can confirm it. In that request, I was surprised that the request was significantly different from those previously made, namely that, as my colleague Vondráček said here when he quoted, or when he referred to the Supreme Court's decision - or perhaps the Minister of Justice - on what it should actually look like or what formal requirements are for the House's resolution on the extradition of Members to prosecute. I am saying this because the police's request, even according to the Supreme Court, is to look more or less the same, or is to go into the same details as the resolution on the initiation of criminal prosecutions. Every member of the mandate and immunity committee I think can confirm that every time a police extradition request was made, it always looked like that, formally or in content, like the resolution on the initiation of a criminal prosecution. That means there were specific details in the sense that, let's say, the day of that and the day he sent a mobile phone number, etc. SMS this person to this with some text, that's when it happened, that's when it happened, which is, of course, documented in the file, and from that, the police import that there was a crime. In this request it was not so, it was rather general and more or less contained, which you can read, only, or almost only information that is available from public sources. That surprised me, but I thought good, maybe it's written like this, and it'll be clear and fine in the file. So then the mandate and immune committee decided to ask the police for a look at the file. The police didn't deliver the file, but it allowed the Members to see, so I was there at the police station - I thought I said something wrong, that they turned off my microphone. [[By mistake, turn off the microphone for a moment.]] I was at the police station, and I met the file. It was a big surprise, because I expected hard data to be in that file, documents, wiretaps, some kind of written instruction from that date, or at least documents confirming that those events had happened this way. As has already been said, it is not there, and more or less the content of the file could be compiled to a large extent by anyone sitting here if they spent some time at Google and on the Internet, in a business register. So basically, the police described a summary of some events, and above that, they created a kind of structure that the whole thing was intended to commit a grant fraud and that Andrej Babiš was responsible for everything and that he organized it and that Jaroslav Faltýnek was helping him. Well, of course, this has already been mentioned in the original criminal report. The explanation on the part of Andrej Babiš is that it was simply a coincidence. There was a property transfer of the company Farma Čapi Nest, i.e. ownership transfer to family members and subsequently during the implementation of the project, of course there was a request for subsidy etc., but during the project it turned out that the project was simply not viable and therefore it had to be saved by Imoba, which was simply Agrofert group, which was a strategic partner. That's the explanation of Andrej Babiš, which makes sense. In order for the police to be able to accuse Andrej Babiš in this case, they must prove that it was not so, they must prove otherwise. And not in court. This must be proved already in the resolution on the initiation of criminal prosecutions, virtually. in the request, because we know that the request must look similar to the resolution on the initiation of the prosecution. So the police have to break the argument. Theoretically, I can imagine, but there would have to be some wiretaps, some instructions, something. I expected that in the file, when the police sent the request that it was there, but it's not there, my friends! The police simply have nothing other than publicly available sources and some other information - I will not talk about it, because let's say I honor the decorative investigation - but no such information that would clearly indicate that there was some intention from the start, it just isn't there. I didn't see it, it's not there. So how can the police from the interplay of any events - she may, of course, think it was. It's okay, it's an investigative version. And then the story of the investigation should be checked, checked, checked, either confirmed, or rejected, or leaked that it wasn't like that. But the police didn't do this at all. She took the investigative version, and without any specific documents, she said it was, and she sent a request to the House. And I think that's wrong. And that has to do with all the arguments that came down here. Mr Ondráček correctly quoted Section 160 of the Code of Criminal Procedure and said that the police, if he finds that a crime has been committed and that a particular person has committed it, will immediately initiate the prosecution. That's true, but then I ask the same logic, why aren't the other persons charged? What are the police waiting for? To hand over the MPs? He can prosecute other people, too. After all, the person who gives false information in the grant application shall commit the act of subsidy fraud. So there was someone who filled out false data - allegedly, according to the police - and thus committed a crime or was to commit it, so why aren't the police following him now? Why is he asking the House to publish Andrej Babiš and Jaroslav Faltýnek? After all, she could prosecute the person concerned and maybe in the course of the investigation it would become clear that two Members need to be prosecuted, and then she would send an application to the House. I understand that, and that's how it was everywhere. That's how it was in the ROP Northwest and the others. That's what happened to Zuzana Kailová, I think, if I remember correctly. The others were, if you correct me, but I suspect they were also prosecuted at that time. So that's illogical. Of course, it raises questions. And I don't know why the police are even doing it like this, why they're letting themselves get into these counterarguments when it's pointless. She could have elegantly avoided that. Next question. Why didn't the police wait for the outcome of the Olaf investigation? I don't want to go back to that, but the case of Bohuslav Svoboda. In this case, a decision by the competition authority was available which stated that the award of the contract in question was in breach of the law. So we have a violation of the law, then somewhere there must have been damage and violation of the law and damage, actually criminal liability. Okay. But the preliminary question has already been decided. Why are the police doing it backwards now? To influence the OLAF? I don't know. But why is he doing this? It's completely unnecessary. [[16.10 hours]] Let's get back to the point. As has already been said here, the Chamber of Deputies is not a court, that is true, it is not an institution active in criminal proceedings, that is true. We should not judge whether the person committed the crime or not, that is also true. And we should judge what? We should assess whether the request is politically motivated, whether there is anything other than the way it is, if it is not purposeful. What would such a purposeful request look like? Do you think the title would be "Warning, this request is purposeful"? Or "Accordance request to prosecute a person named XY"? Or "I'm sending you a request, I'm warning you it's purposeful"? I don't think that's gonna be there, so it's never gonna look like that. So how are we supposed to judge if this request is politically motivated or not? If we are to judge this in any way, the only possible way is whether the claims contained in the application have support in the criminal file, whether the claims are documented. That's why I'm saying, if there were wiretap records or anything, some kind of hard data, I understand, but there's no such thing. So that's an invention. It's just an invention, it's a fluid. It's not documented. So, of course, if this is documented in the file, it's a different situation, then we can say yes, this request is not politically motivated, because look, here's decided some preliminary question, OLAF closed it in this way, we have clear documents that are absolutely clear, yes, well, in that case it's not politically motivated. But in such a situation we are far, far away, far away. We are in a situation where the police say: Andrej Babiš and Jaroslav Faltýnek committed a crime, we cannot prove it to you, but trust us. Again, the police have described some facts, and they have built a structure that explains the facts so that it is a crime, but it does not break the counterargument. And he has no way, because he doesn't have the evidence. To lighten things up, I've prepared a little didactic aid for you here. Do you know what this is? [[It shows a picture of a cow.]] Well, that's a bitch, isn't it. It's no surprise. And do you know what this is? [[He's showing another picture.]] And this? That's the same picture. It's a cow that somebody painted horns, crossed the udder and claims it's a bull. So that's exactly what the police's request for extradition is for the deputies. There are described some facts that have happened, that's true, that can be publicly traced, that's the cow, and that's what the structure is designed to make it look like it's a bull. But she's still a cow with painted horns. So much for the case itself. [[Mr Kováčik approaches the speaker to look at the pictures.]] Yes, I can hand over the head of the KSČM club here. I don't think I'm going back to this case because it's futile, it's futile, it's futile. I think you all know how to vote, so there's no point in explaining it here. I hope the TV viewers are watching us and they understand what I meant to say. As far as I'm concerned, I'm done talking about this case. If I should take any lessons from this, or the House should take some lessons from it, then in any case it is necessary to look at the rules of contact between the House and the law enforcement authorities, because it is indeed chaos. I think that will be confirmed by members of the mandate and immune committee. It's chaos. Basically, it's not prescribed if a file is to be required, it's not prescribed in which cases the police have an obligation to deliver the file. It is not prescribed to what extent, at which stage, etc. These are the things that I'm sure they would like to carry out either in the Code of Criminal Procedure or in the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. I think it's a pretty big task for the future for the next House, so I'm sure this needs to be adjusted. When I was with the police officer at Congress in Prague, he basically said that he had to look in the Code of Criminal Procedure, under which provision he could allow the members of the mandate and immune committee to look into the file, because it's nowhere modified there, there's some general regulation, I think it's Section 65, if I remember it well, but don't take me entirely for a word where it's perhaps another person or some kind of category. So it would really want to adjust more precisely so that the contact between the mandate committee and the immune committee, respectively. The Chamber of Deputies and the Police, respectively. The prosecutor's office was operational and predictable. So much for me, the rest has already been said by my previous speakers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u51	Thank you. Before I give the floor to Mr Josef Hájek, who is duly registered, I note that I now have five factual points in front of me: Mr Ondráček, Mrs Černochová, Mr Kováčik, Mr Válková, Mr Němcová. In this order you are logged in to actual notes. Now, therefore, Mr Zdeněk Ondráček's factual comment. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u52	Thank you, Mr President. To a colleague - he probably left immediately - she also has horns, at least with us. I would say that he doesn't meet many cows in Prague, but if he left Prague, he would see that not only the bull has horns but also the cow. But he's a young man, so maybe he didn't notice. [[Laughs in the hall.]] I would just like to mention that he asked why others - if there are others - are no longer to be blamed, or why the police are not. At the police academy where my colleague studied, I too, we were taught in the Code of Criminal Procedure § 20 of the Code of Criminal Procedure: Against all the accused whose crimes are related, all the attacks of the continuing or mass crime and all the parts of the ongoing crime, joint proceedings are held, provided that important reasons do not prevent this. Other offences shall be subject to joint management where such a procedure is appropriate in terms of speed and economy of the proceedings. If someone started criminal prosecutions and conducted interrogations, and there was a connection with the Members who should be charged with a similar or related crime, those actions would be procedurally invalid, they would have to be repeated. So we were taught in the second year of the Police Academy, and I've been from this school for quite a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u53	Thank you for the factual remark and for keeping time. Before I give the floor to Mrs Černochová, I ask for a little patience. I will only read an apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, Mr Pavel Šrámek from 16:00 to 18:00. You now have the floor, Madame, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u54	Thank you. I'll follow up on my previous speaker, who commented on what my colleague Fichtner here said. By your means - if the picture shows that he's neutered, he'd be an asshole, my colleague. [[Laughs in the hall.]] But I volunteered because maybe colleague Fichtner here missed one very important thing that we're repeating here forever. But you just don't want to hear it. I would ask Mrs Válková, through the Vice-President or Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, to do some education for members of the ANO movement due to criminal proceedings, how criminal proceedings are conducted, what is in the process, what is in the matter. Because a colleague here, Fichtner, missed one important thing. He was here attacking the police, and he didn't mention the D.A. here. He didn't mention the warden here, he didn't mention what she read here a little while ago, Mrs. Mrs. Němcová, who was reading the statements of the Attorney General here. Mr Fichtner, through the Vice-President, do you know that there is a prosecutor's office in addition to the police? Or don't you know?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u55	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. My colleague Kováčik does not want to prolong the negotiations, so he checked out. Now, therefore, the factual remark made by Mrs Helena Válková. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u56	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, my dear colleagues, I originally wanted to speak to something else, so first I must go through you, Mr Vice-President, to my colleague Černochová. I do not think it is necessary to do the education that everyone who listened carefully knew what my colleague, Mr Fichtner, was talking about. After all, I was convinced this morning, and I was reminded by your fellow partyman that I shouldn't take my word for it. Sometimes, too, you will use an inaccurate term, which, of course, will then be used by someone else who wants to go with you to a certain controversy. But I'd like to draw attention to one more moment here. Here was a question of half rhetorical, why didn't the law enforcement authority at all cared, in this case the police, in operational terms, about getting information from other involved suspects. And the way I felt about it was that they didn't even ask for an explanation from them, which, of course, is quite different than when it comes to questioning the accused. And as far as I know, and I have yet to find out by asking Mr Babiš, neither his mistress nor his children have ever given an explanation. If I am wrong now, I would ask Mr Babiš to correct me. If I'm right, that's right, and that's the big difference. I think that this really - I have some experience in criminal proceedings - is strange. I'm not saying it's illegitimate, it's illegal, but it's kind of a special technique for the police when you're not even from the people they suspect - yes, thank you. [[Time limit alert.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u57	Madam, thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. By this we have exhausted them at this time and can properly logged in by Josef Hájek take the words. Please, Mr. Ambassador, it's up to you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u58	Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I am sorry that my colleague Zaorálek is not here. If he's in the lobby, I'd like to ask him if he'd like to come down here, because I'm gonna have a speech or a sentence with him. Six hours live live broadcast of Czech TV. Direct transmission of Czech television to the citizens of this country to learn that President Babiš allegedly signed over property to children in order to hide. That's how I understood it in the course of this whole discussion. And I am terribly sorry that for nine months when we were discussing the case of OKD, television never once - not once - did I point out - did not make any live transmission. [[A round of applause for members of the ANO movement.]] Here we're dealing with an alleged $50 million scam, when everyone comes to look at the stork's nest, and I had the chance, there's really that $50 million, not $50 million, there's a billion invested. You really see the tangible consequence of the investment. If you look at OKD, it makes me sad. There are six billion crowns in lawsuits, six billion crowns - only a loss or estimated loss of the state for sale, and I am not talking about another Bakal case, one hundred billion more. I ask why our independent public television and media not once - and I have been here on this issue OKD several times, including only colleagues from KSČM and colleagues from the former Dawn, I apologize for the name. Six billion. My colleague Zaorálek was with me in 2013 as the leader of the candidate - he was the leader of the ČSSD, I was the movement YES. Of course, OKD is my heart's business, I've worked at that firm for 33 years. Still my friends, mostly retired these days, are the people I've spent my whole life with. For me, it was a clear school of life that I draw from today, because being a thousand feet underground, there one realizes what solidarity really is, relying on each other. There you have to expect someone to help. This is where you expect a stab in the back, unfortunately. I'm bohužel so. And I didn't expect it to be from public television. Whether citizens realize or project in their heads how many times during this parliamentary term the live broadcast of Czech television and what things has been. It's always been about President Babiš, whether it was the Shaman Group's question or what they're called, sorry, I'm sorry about the name - Šuman, now I remember, it's okay. [[Laughing in the hall]] I'm a little exhausted after six hours, too. Shuman. That means, this is where we were dealing with the alleged, i.e. recordings etc. And I ask how it is possible that the public media, Czech Television, did not solve the Prime Minister's e-mail leak. I'm quoting it to you, my fellow viewers. [[Laughs in the hall.]] Well, the audience, yeah, that's how they look at us. I quote this to you because I did not have the opportunity to familiarize our citizens with this email during the live broadcast because I was blocked. I've been blocked, that's just it. This is a rarity, respectable citizens, and remember that. We are often blocked and we cannot express what we want to tell you, because there are structures that maybe - that's my assumption - will not allow us to do so. So, please, there's an e-mail from Mr. Přikryl from December 20, 2015, which was then stolen, hacked, to the Prime Minister. It's dishonest, it's unfair, but there's no fair and fair on this land anymore. So please, Mr Ivan Přikryl speaks or writes on 20 December 2015: Dear Prime Minister, for your time utilization and also because I am leaving outside the Czech Republic for a week, I would like to inform you that I have done the work in the case of the OKD as we discussed them. I had the opportunity to look at the file - I repeat, I had the opportunity to look at the file - with an apology. I was appalled at the legal inaccuracies of the prosecution's arguments. For example, the course of time is not a significant factor for the Police of the Czech Republic and the State Attorney and blames people for the actions that someone else has done much earlier without any cooperation from them. I will forgive myself for further details, because all of this only proves that either the law enforcement authorities are criminally wrong, perhaps there is no alternative. I intersected the Prime Minister on this issue in June of this year. On June 5, he wrote to me that he spent his whole life fighting for the miners, for their well-being, and he will not comment on this because he is under investigation by the Police of the Czech Republic. So I ask how it is possible that in this case the police are waiting to investigate, and in the case of Shuman the House acts. We have accepted the possibility of setting up a commission here, we are talking about debriefing, etc. That's what terrifies me here, because I actually read an email or tweet today by Minister Stropnický, who described how photos are taken, and really showed colleague Fichtner here how to turn a cow into an asshole. He showed them in the photo what the photographer is really doing with today's technology. But let's get back to the point, please. I would still follow up on the words of the still absent Minister of Zaorálek Affairs. He said here today that we shouldn't waste time on this debate today and work for people. And I totally agree with that. Working for people in my case in the case of OKD means really doing something for those people. What I want to stress today is that there is still a possibility for us to get at least 44,000 flats in the case of OKD. Minister Zaorálek became the national leader of ČSSD colleagues on 14 June and I welcomed it. I welcomed it because in 2013 he fought like a lion for the rights of miners. But then he got the dream post of Minister of Foreign Affairs and for four years he forgot about the miners and the ODK. During the nine months we were here discussing the case of OKD, he didn't perform once. It was only when he became the leader that he said: "Friends, when I am Prime Minister, I promise you that my first decision will be to file a complaint with the European Commission on the unlawful support of the state in privatizing the OKD." Which confirmed me that it was a good idea. Why wait for Mr. Zaorálek to be Prime Minister? Why not take advantage of the fact that we have a goat gardener? [[16.30 hours]] That means we have a current prime minister who has butter on his head for selling it in 2004. Of course I can understand that in 2004 he was 33 years old, he was not yet experienced, that is, he could rely, as he states, on advisors and valuers etc., but there is still a possibility of filing a complaint, a complaint that, if I studied it, my colleague Lorencová looks at me because we are both in this issue I would say very forged, and that is indeed an opportunity to get those apartments. But not through the Chamber of Deputies, because it's impassable here. I'm not fighting it here. This means the only way to gain citizens for this activity. That is why I have prepared a petition with my colleague Lorencová, a petition from the citizens in which we ask our citizens to join this petition and ask Prime Minister Sobotek to file the complaint with illegal support because it is the only one that allows. And I just used the words, media words, which said the new leader of ČSSD, a colleague of Zaorálek, who said he would file the complaint, so on July 11 I sent him a personal letter, where I asked him and asked him to join this petition. Unfortunately, he didn't answer my question. So I'm going to use the fact that I'm here under the cameras, and I'm going to hand over the letter that I may have lost somewhere, it's happening, of course the post office isn't going to say who, but this could happen, so I'm going to hand it over to him, please, a letter, you're witnesses, where I'm asking him to sign the petition, and I'm handing him this petition. I think the citizens will be interested and interested in the case, the pseudocause of the Capi nest, but in my region the 44,000 mining families, the thousands, unfortunately today only 10,000 miners, others more interested in what will happen to mining, what will happen to their apartments, and they want justice. They don't want Sobotka shut down, that's out of them, but they want at least a minimum return to justice to get the apartments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u59	I thank Mr Josef Hájek and we have three factual points before us. First Mr Miroslav Kalousek, then Mr Igor Jakubčík and then Mr Karel Fiedler. Now, then, President Miroslav Kalousek, on a point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u60	Thank you. The applause was undoubtedly well deserved, and I have no choice but to bow down to the 'yes' membership's communication strategy. Indeed, we have been discussing more or less technical procedural matters here for more than six hours, the extradition of two Members to prosecute, to issue, or not to publish, and the debate that has been going on for more than six hours has been inconspicuous at times, and Mr Hájek has now been able to sum up all the reasoning levels of his colleagues from the club YES and make it such a short annotation. I want to thank him for that. We're in it now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u61	I thank Mr Kalousek, now Mr Igor Jakubčík. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u62	Thank you. I would like to ask the Czech Television here from the counter in case of a performance by Mr. Hájek to interrupt all its broadcasts on all channels and to give his performance live. Too much and too much Czech TV please, so we don't have to stay here with these lamentations. And I thank you in advance for handling my request or request.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u63	I thank Mr Jakubčík, who has not used time to make a point of fact. Mr Karel Fiedler has decided to resign on his point of order, and in that case I can say that I have no written application for the debate yet. This is Chairman Babiš. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor for a proper application.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u64	Thank you for the floor. Looks like the debate is over. I'm very happy and hopefully no one will discuss this for our club anymore, because it's a fact that it's long. [[response in the auditorium]] I'd just like to repeat my position for me very briefly: One. The timing of the case and the arguments in the police's request have confirmed me that the Chapi Nest case is a purely political case intended to affect the elections that take place in 45 days. That's obvious, and I think our people, our citizens, aren't stupid, they know that. Two. I will not resist my extradition because I have nothing to hide and I believe justice will prevail. I have committed no crime, and I will defend myself against the charges by any legal means possible. For the next one. I will vote in favour of the issue, although I strongly disagree with the position and request of the police. This case has been played mainly on Czech TV for years. And a hundred times a repeated lie becomes the truth. As Czech Television said this morning, I did something wrong. Well, I didn't do anything wrong. One of my 300 former companies sold a loss-making company that she didn't need to sell to my family who wanted to do tourism. And what's wrong with the opinion? And the fact that the project was subsequently in crisis 2009 and later in economic trouble and we had to take it over is also obvious. So there was no fraud, and it's just a political case to damage me. And I would recommend to all citizens that they go there. Go over there and you'll see the $50 million on the spot. It's almost a billion. Go and judge for yourselves. And also go to OKD and look for the 130 billion. You won't find them there. And the other thousands of billions that have been stolen and scraped. And if the fate of this country depends on the Capi Nest Farms, then we're in bad shape. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u65	I thank Mr Babiš. Mr Petr Kořenek's point of view. We are still in the debate, I have not closed the debate. [[Noise in the hall.]] Calm down, please. You have the floor on a point of fact, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u66	Thank you, Mr President. I didn't want to perform at all, but my colleague Hájek's performance convinced me a little bit. I think I agree with you, but the OKD should be looked at by those who privatized 52 percent when the state lost the majority. And when he loses the majority, he can't make any decisions anymore. So that's the first thing. And after all, you were a manufacturing deputy, so you know something about it. That's one thing. And the other thing. As part of business and tourism, I would like all citizens who work and have a salary of fourteen and fifteen thousand to go to the Cappuccino Farm and have a cappuccino or coffee. If you can afford it, congratulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u67	Thank you for keeping time. This time, colleague Fiedler wants to use his word and application for a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u68	I am sorry, Mr President. I didn't want to, but my colleague Kořenek provoked me with the OKD after all. I'll respond to my colleague Hájek. I was one of those guys who was trying to get this case of OKD to be discussed so we could learn some other things. As I mentioned earlier today, the Prime Minister has not answered why he does not want to release audio recording from the government's negotiations on privatization of OKD. [[16.40 hours]] But also about the privatization of OKD. The purchase price is 4.1 billion. Let's try a bit of merchant math. 44,000 flats. If I say the price of one apartment is hypothetically, let's make it count well, $100,000, and I'm not putting a lot of money on it, these are very cheap apartments, so it's $4.4 billion. the value of the apartments. So when I say Mr. Bakala's worth about four billion. bought the apartments and got the rest of OKD as a free bonus, so not at all, but I'm not exaggerating at all. And I don't need any expertise to do that. I don't need to be an investigator to know that this was a scam. Majority and minority of state in OKD. Well, it's probably true. Prime Minister Sobotka has already explained. But I've always thought, if the state had kept 49 percent of the minority share, at least it would have earned about half of the dividends. He didn't have anything like that. That's OKD, since my colleagues have already provoked me to comment on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u69	I thank Mr Fiedler and now I have two factual points. I'm asking Minister Zaorálek if he wants to make a point. [[Yes.]] In that case, you are second to Mr Chalupa, because the order will be Mr Chalupa, Minister Zaorálek and Mr Laudát. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u70	Let's go to OKD. Prime Minister Sobotka was a finance minister, and I'm not really getting over the fact that when he knew the National Property Fund had done something wrong, how come he didn't handle it and sue. That's one. And second of all, since we're talking about traveling, who's going to see where, I recommend you in Jeseníky the village of Ludvíkov. Take a look at Mr. Palas' palace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u71	Thank you for keeping time. Now Minister Zaorálek, also on the point of fact. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u72	Thank you again, hello. I hope for the last time today. In the meantime, I found out that I received a petition here that Mr Hájek is addressing to me. It calls on me to stand up for myself and initiate a complaint with the European Commission on the OKD issue. So I would like to assure him that I am probably the only one who has really turned to the European Commission. I actually made a complaint, even personally dealt with a number of Commissioners there. But what I am very sorry about is that the finance minister, who has this matter in his jurisdiction, has done nothing in four years. This House knows I've been involved in this case like no one else in the past few years. I remind you of three trials with Mr. Bakala, whom I called a crook, who sued me three times and lost all the courts. So you don't have anything to blame me for. I rather blame Minister Babiš for turning to him in a similar case of a song room and turning to Minister Pilný in a case that seemed to fall out of the eye of the OKD apartments, where the aid was for 1,400 people, Mr Babiš, Mr Pilný and the ANO movement did something very similar. Those people were thrown overboard and did nothing. So if someone could help me, like Mr. Babiš, in these cases, we could have done something. And I ask, what was Mr. Babiš doing in this and a whole series of cases for people over the four years? It's simple. Zero!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u73	I thank Minister Zaorálek for his time. [[Mr. Babiš is applying for the floor.]] Please, Mr Babiš, correct or factual? Proper. In that case, the order of Mr Laudát, Mr Pilný, Mrs Lorencová, is with a factual point and then Mr Babiš with a proper application for debate. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u74	Thank you. On the one hand, Mr President, people are starting to rise to a point that is not on the agenda and according to the Rules of Procedure. You should warn them, and if they continue to do so, just send them away from the speaker's desk. So many Rules of Procedure first. Two. I'm begging you - some of you are already acting like clowns. I would ask you very much not to lower the dignity of this House in the future. It was you who said something about a blabbermouth. What you've been doing here all morning is a classic display of blabbermouth. You take a clean almost 100 grand with replacements. Please, for this? And in terms of resources, we have another point. The money now sounds like there's no resources, so maybe they're in the People's House, I don't know. But don't worry about it at this point and don't make this House a fool. I'm begging you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u75	Well, thank you, Mr Laudát. I just have to comply with the Rules of Procedure. This means that I have no choice but to accept the factual point when someone responds with a factual point, and it must be a response to the previous speaker's speech. So I'm sorry. If anyone considers this to be a violation of the Rules of Procedure by the President, let them proceed under the Rules of Procedure and propose my appeal to the proceedings. Now the de facto remark made by Minister Ivan Pilný. Please, Minister, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u76	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am now speaking to something that Minister Zaorálek has said here, and since I have been appointed, I am forced to do so, although this is definitely not about what we are discussing today, and this is the case of flats in Písnice. It must be said that the nature of the conflict is completely elsewhere. It is a determining law suspended 20 years ago when the National Property Fund assigned these flats to ČEZ. There is no employee of čez who has any relationship with Čez. Minister Zaorálek has expressed himself in the sense that there is a danger of moving the property to the Caribbean. As I recall, the last such transfer took place in the past era and it moved the bridge church by a kilometer. Moving apartments to the Caribbean would probably be a somewhat more complex logistical question, but that would certainly be solved by Minister Zaorálek. There was a normal tender for it. It was won by a company that had to be completely transparent because it was a condition of tender. I have not seen any reason why the Czech state, which still owns 70 percent in CEZ, should join a lawsuit that has no prospects of success and will not help the tenants at all. Maybe he'll help Minister Zaorálek if he continues his demagogy. But the tenants aren't! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u77	Now, Mrs Jana Lorencová's point of order. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u78	Mr President, colleagues, I am sorry. I thought I wasn't performing tonight. But after Minister Zaorálek came forward, that's all I have left. Minister through Mr President, do you remember filming in the garden of your house on Hybernska? Do you remember when you kept us waiting for four hours? And then I found out about the case -- it's been ten years, but I've got it on tape, so I can play it to you anytime -- you didn't know anything about the OKD case. I gave you 14 days to get to know the essence and to talk to the point. Then it happened, after 14 days, that you already knew a little something. And from me, you had information that you might later call Bakala a crook. After talking to me. We then recorded quite a decent interview, which unfortunately Czech TV, I think, did not broadcast or broadcast, but in a different context. But you already knew what was going on. What are you guys doing here? Why are you saying something today about the YES movement?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u79	Thank you. Now, the final point of fact. Mr. Miroslav Kalousek, then Mr. Andrej Babiš, duly applied for. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u80	Thank you. In the sense of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to respond to the appearance of Minister Zaorálek and, in part, Minister Pilný. Minister Zaorálek turned to the former Minister of Finance and said - Minister, what did you do? Nothing. Minister Pilný basically said the same thing to Minister Zaorálek. The Minister, therefore, now President Babiš, again says that social democracy behaved completely irresponsiblely and robbed in the case of OKD. And the Minister of Justice says that the authorities involved in criminal proceedings, for which the Minister of the Interior is responsible, are working on a political order. I have to thank you, colleagues, in principle, because after those six hours, there is clearly a growing willingness to be honest and tell us what the government has been doing here for the last four years. In the best case, she did nothing, according to Minister Zaorálek, in the worst case she stole and, in the worst case, abused the authority of a public official. Please, that's not what I'm saying. I wouldn't dare. But I hear it from responsible representatives of the government coalition. Thank you for telling us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u81	I will ask Mr Babiš to wait a little longer, because there is a factual remark by Mr Jiří Koubek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u82	Thank you. A very brief remark for me as mayor of the Song. Yes, social democracy doesn't have anything to blame for the Písnice in the case. One for eighteen, one for two for twenty.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u83	Thank you. One more factual comment by Mr Zdeněk Ondráček. Before you speak, Mrs Adamová Pekarová cancels her apology and will already be here at the hearing. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u84	Thank you, Mr President. To Mr Kalousek. Mr Kalousek, the public official has not been an official for seven or eight years. Try to think about it. Official, not a public official. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u85	Please address your fellow Member through me. And now duly signed up Mr. Andrej Babiš. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u86	Thank you for the floor. I thought I wasn't gonna perform anymore, but the incredible lies Mr. Zaorálek has made here, I find it absolutely scandalous. This is such a smut from you, Minister, through Mr President. You're lying, you're lying! And I have a witness, Minister Jurečka, who was sitting in my office, and we were discussing the Písnice's apartments. [[Laughing and applause from the right]] And I met Mrs. Vlková from Song's apartment six or seven times. And who controlled CEZ, Minister? When your Prime Minister kicked me out of the government, ČEZ took over the Czech government! [[He speaks strongly, loudly.]] I mean, Mr. Finance Minister was there for a clown at the general meeting. Your mobsters from CEZ ordered you and your prime minister, who played a major role in OKD, brought a government resolution, which he handed out to all members of the government, and the board of directors of CEZ decided how the finance minister should vote at the general meeting. Your friends, ČEZ. Which the state never controlled. It's always taken over the board. Because it was coalition. With unionists. So what are you guys talking about? I was involved in those apartments. And when I wanted to go to the ČEZ Supervisory Board, I was not allowed. So when you kicked me out of the government, CEZ took over the Czech government! And the minister was there for a jerk at the general meeting. That's your work, isn't it, CEZ? That chief godfather of yours, Pokorný, who is directing you. [[Reactions in the O.R.]] Well, that's it. Who did the papers to Brussels to connect OKD? What are you talking about? I wrote you a few letters about the OKD. It's incredibly rude of you to even say that here! You guys who had this company tweaked, you're talking about some kind of Snap čapí scam. You've devastated the entire region. It's a waste of six billion. Then why don't you play the tapes? Play the Prime Minister's recordings on all governments regarding the OKD! That's where the experts stand in court. He was supposed to stand trial for OKD! Everyone knows that. So don't tell me I didn't do anything for OKD! I have papers for this! And Deputy Landa will document it for you. So stop lying. OKD is your supertunnel. Bakala, Pokorný, same crew. Martin Roman, Skoda Transportation, they're still the same people who've done billions of damage here. So you don't talk about OKD! I did the best I could. As Minister, I fought for Czech interests. Who dug it up in Brussels? Who? Then what are you talking about? OKD. You've been in politics for 27 years, Minister. You were still in politics at the Federal Assembly, weren't you? You set up the Civil Forum. Twenty-seven years you've been babbling about something! What have you done? You didn't even build a doghouse. [[He speaks strongly, loudly.]] And here you are babbling about the OKD that you have brutally stolen! And when we took the train to Ostrava and I fought against your buddy Bakal being recorded again, your captain Novák, more money, because all the land in the Moravian-Silesian region belongs to your friend Bakal, you outvoted me. You made a fool of me. So stop lying already! I fought for those people. Even for the flats and for the OKD. Ask Mr. Macháček from the OKD Apartment. Ask him what happened. Yes? And I dare you, stop lying! I'll document all the papers, and the Treasury Secretary is able to prove it. Because Deputy Minister Landa has all the papers. And we did our best, we fought for Czech interest, we fought for the perversion, for the nasty theft of 43,000 flats. The old man who was supposed to get the apartment for $40,000, and now he's paying seven grand a month's rent. So don't say anything more about OKD. Don't say anything. And release all the recordings of the government meeting when it was discussing the sale of the OKD. The biggest tunnel in the history of this country. That's it!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u87	Because we are still in the debate, I beg the serenity of the House of Deputies and with the de facto remark of Mr Antonín Seďa. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u88	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u89	Mr. Ambassador, I will give you time again, but I really ask the House for peace! I would like to get to the conclusion of the debate and the final words of the rapporteurs. I'll wait. Thank you, you can, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u90	Thank you. In the last four years here, a hundred times repeated lie becomes the truth. Remind me: The state in OKD had 52 percent of the shares it held until 1996. On 28 May 1996, the National Property Fund of the Ministry of Privatisation and Administration of National Property requested permission to reduce the capital by 12 %, at the expense of the share held by the State. The Ministry authorised this and the state received one crown after returning 12 percent of the shares for OKD. By doing so, he gave up the majority in OKD for one crown with all the consequences. After calculating the percentage of the reduced number of state shares, 45.88 percent remained. From this moment on Stanislav Pros bought shares of OKD from small shareholders, restitutions and municipalities. In mid 1998, after buying the last required amount of majority shares in OKD, he acquired 50,002 %. By creating this majority, the OKD share package held by the state lost any value in influencing the operation of the OKD. In the same year, in 1998, Stanislav Pros sold this majority stock package to the Karbon Invest Group for 3.9 billion. Crowns. Other assessments found by some and later were not opinions on the valuation of a minority share of shares, but on the valuation of equity as a contribution to a new OKD having an ID number of 26863154. And this OKD was created by 1. 6. 2005. Too bad I don't have a lot of time to finish this for you. So go to 1996 and don't blame someone here who wasn't able to privatize the OKD!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u91	Congressman, thank you for keeping the time to make a point. Now a proper application by Minister Zaorálek. You have your word, Minister. Wait a little longer. Once again, I ask the House for peace! Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u92	I'm not a liar. I call Mr Babiš. And I don't like you saying that the Moravian-Silesian region is devastated. That's not true. And we shouldn't be yelling at citizens here that they live in a devastated region. That's not factually true. As far as OKD is concerned, we managed to consolidate the situation there. We've put out a loan. We pushed the state to take over the situation and get it under control. And we shouldn't scare these people today by screaming that the region is devastated. I think that's a hysterical emotion that doesn't fit reality. Look, we were sitting together. We tried to do things together. I also don't like the fact that we're in a situation where we're making a balance in front of the House. I'd rather talk about it in peace. But I have to turn against the fact that I lied about what I said here. I've known the situation in OKD for a long time, I've been watching it for a long time, and I'd like it if we could do our best. And I thought we'd do it together. And when I picked up the Songs' apartments here, it just pisses me off that as a government, we couldn't do more. And it bothers me when someone here is yelling out how they care about people, and in this particular thing, because I was in charge of another resort when those citizens turned to me, so I found out that I had five days to prevent a deposit from being made in the cadastral by an anonymous owner who was supposed to take over the apartments in the Song. And the only one who could reverse it was the Ministry of Finance, the main shareholder of ČEZ. You had an indisputable competence to prevent those people's rooftops from actually disappearing in one day in someone they don't even know who they are, and who's threatening to raise their rents. It was about 1,400 flats. I asked the Treasury to take the only step that could prevent it. From the moment I started to look into it, I found that this was the only option - to apply as a party to the property determination procedure, and that would give the court a chance to take a precautionary measure and the deposit had not been made. That was what I asked you to do. You said you met Mrs. Vlková six times. And I'm telling you, you didn't do anything. That's what we're talking about today. When I was talking about genetic selfishness. We've been talking about one case all day, one case, and there are cases that involve hundreds, even a thousand people, and I don't think we did what we had as a government. And I'm saying that you had the authority, the top one, in this! So let's not yell at each other. I'm talking right here. I've spent my whole life trying to talk right here, and I didn't lie about anything I said. And that balance will be made by voters.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u93	Thank you, Minister Zaorálek. Mr Kořenko's point of fact and Mr Babiš's point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u94	Thank you. I think this House was elected primarily to work for people. So I don't really know if we're working for people today, but I would ask people who are watching us and who might be watching this, who could have gone abroad before 1989. I ask who could have acquired property after 1989 if he didn't have information or if he didn't participate in cooperation with politics. I wasn't in politics. And I'm asking why people who have, have acquired - by working or otherwise - property, couldn't help people even outside of politics, and if they have to privatize this republic, and today they're only here to get their hands on something. People think that who has property needs nothing more, which is why it is a good politician for this country. I don't think so. Of course, I respect every hardworking person. And I ask, "Whoever works his whole life and works honestly ten, sixteen hours a day, why doesn't he have the property, if we all have the same conditions?" I don't want an answer. I'm just asking why we're here today blaming ourselves, why we're swearing and why we're not working for the people who elected us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u95	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Andrej Babiš's factual comment. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u96	I'm sorry. I'm famous for not getting along, but what makes me mad is really lies. So, Minister Zaorálek, through Mr President, that you are a total amateur in the economy and do not understand companies, because you do not know what shareholders' rights are, what shareholders' rights are - to convene and vote on a general meeting. Yes? Well, let's keep an eye out. Please note how the State exercises shareholder rights through the Supervisory Board. You got a letter. Why do you keep lying? I've done my best for these people. Maximum! And I have witnesses. Then don't say it. And OKD? Why are you bragging OKD? Who fixed the OKD? Who talked Kuča into coming back from retirement who had experience from OKD? I talked him into it. Four times. And I had OKD under Prisko, I was driving it! You've never run a company in your life, you don't even understand. Who fixed Paskov? Why does OKD have billions in his accounts today? Why is he okay? Why doesn't anyone hear about this? Because I did it. Then don't brag about my work! Do me a favor. You just wanted to infiltrate your party colleagues into the organs! No, Mládek wanted to. And the head of accounting. And this. So you can get back to it. To get something out there, some business. Yeah? So I fixed the OKD. And I have papers for it. Yeah? So please don't lie.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u97	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact, and I note that we have exhausted all the electronic applications I have had. I'm asking if anyone's checking in from the scene. Because I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. [[Noise in the hall.]] Sorry, sorry, Madam Chairman of the mandate and immunity committee. You mít the slovo, Madam President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u98	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, honourable members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of this debate, I come before you only with two sentences. I said one of them right at the outset, but I think it's worth keeping in mind when judging. The sentence reads as follows: The request by the Police Authority for the consent of the Chamber of Deputies to prosecute both Members shall contain, in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, the definition of the acts which are at issue and their anticipated legal qualifications. - It's important to know that the request contains what it contains. The second thing I want to add is because this whole debate here revolved around what the police do or don't do. In general, I can only add that at the meeting of the mandate and immunity committee, where we have, as I have informed you, invited both the police representative and the representative who supervises, i.e. the prosecutor's representative, and this representative supported the police investigation version in its entirety at the committee's meeting. So let us also say, because the debate was conducted in a one-way manner, in the sense that it was a planned attack on the YES movement by the police. There's been a long debate about the timing here, about how it all fits together, while I've quoted you here as a supervisory review of the state's attorney, Lenka Bradáčová, who denies that the police wouldn't do as they should, that there would be insufficient supervision of the state's attorney. And if someone was prolonging the case, they were private subjects, in layman's terms, those to whom it affects, who either apologized for medical reasons and didn't come to explain, or argued that they wouldn't testify or that they had to remain silent. These were the reasons objectively stated by the Attorney General. It is therefore necessary to know, since you have already talked so much about the timing, that the Union of Prosecutors also states that there is no political time to prosecute a politician. Just if the police department gathers enough evidence, they have to act. You don't like it, you argue, you turn it around so you can tell the public your version, so you think it's just some politically motivated activity. Instead, you don't want to hear that a year and a half of the police have done well under the authority of the state prosecutor, and this prosecutor has been monitored by the state prosecutor and found no problem in the process. That's what needs to be said here to send all the versions of you that you've been making here for six hours through the media to the public, so that it's consistent with exactly what happened or didn't happen during the investigation. [[17.10 hours]] I will not go into detail about what we asked the D.A., because if I had any reservations that my colleagues, or one of the fellow Members of the mandate and immune committee, are here to interpret things that they should not say, because the committee's conduct is not public, I will not commit the same offense. But the general statement that the police's investigative version of the SA was supported and did not find fault with the Supreme Prosecutor's procedure must be delivered. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u99	Thank you, Madam President of the mandate and immunity committee, Mrs Miroslava Němcová. Before we continue the debate, because I have failed to conclude it, I am saying an apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies from today's meeting to its end, apologizing to Mr Milan Šarapatka. Now three factual points - the first is Leo Luzar, then Pavel Kováčik and then Milan Brázdil. My colleague Luzar checked out, so Mr Kováčik has the floor on a factual point. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u100	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, you know, the conclusion of today's debate makes me very sad. And very sad because we could have prevented it. As this body, as the Chamber of Deputies, we had in our hands at the beginning of this year when it was clear that the government coalition was not working for the state, for society, for citizens, for cities, for municipalities, for companies, but only to resolve our own internal contradictions, we had in hand the dissolution of the Chamber of Deputies and the launch of early elections. If we had done this, we could have been spared this undignified internal-police laundry. I don't think that will contribute to the election result of at least one of the government parties. But I am afraid that the aftertaste of internal debate in politics as such will rather reduce voters' participation in parliamentary elections. I wouldn't want that to happen. At least for myself and my colleagues, I merely declare that, despite everything that has been heard here, we still think that it is necessary for proper justice to be given, and that therefore the law enforcement authorities will not allow themselves to fabulate any further, to distort something and that their decision will be fair. I will therefore vote in favour of the extradition of both colleagues, not because he believes something in the file, but simply because in similar cases the House is neither a court nor an investigator, it is not about guilt and punishment, but merely about giving justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u101	Thank you for keeping time. Before I give the floor to Mr Brázdil, I ask Minister Zaorálek if he wants a factual comment or... [[Minister: Real.]] Really. In that case, after Mr Kučer, who signed up electronically, Minister. prosit, MP Milan Brázdil. Mr Michal Kučera will prepare for a factual remark, then Minister Zaorálek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u102	Excuse me, I would have reacted after all. Colleagues and colleagues, in a few moments we will be voting on extradition, not publishing whether it is a political case or not a political case. I'd like to comment on the timing. I'll compare the investigator to the doctor. Excuse me. The doctor, when something urgent comes up, he's asked for the patient to go to the O.R. immediately, and no one's surprised. [[Noise in ČSSD benches.]] When the investigator recognizes or has a man in front of him who killed someone, he puts him in a holding cell, nobody says anything. But if I bring someone in who's in pain for, say, months, there's some kind of investigation going on, that is, medically speaking, then it's planned when he's going into surgery, then it shifts because it doesn't suit the surgeon and so on. But it's exactly the same here. That someone should act immediately - clearly, but that's a subjective sense of when I'm going to time it, how I'm going to do it. From this point of view, I just don't like it, and I don't want to vote in favour of the issue, because this is exactly the timing, which is why we should protect our colleagues from being issued. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u103	Thank you. Now, Mr Michal Kučera, also with a factual point, then Minister Zaorálek, also a factual point. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u104	Thanks again for the word. I would react very briefly to the words of my previous speaker, Mr Kováčik, who called today's presentation of coalition Members by washing the dirty laundry of coalition Members, the coalition government. I dare to correct these words. This wasn't laundry. This was indeed a report on the activities of the government YES, the ČSSD and the People's Party. The fact that a number of criticisms have been expressed here, as members of the YES criticized their colleagues from the ČSSD and vice versa, is exactly what the TOP 09 has been pointing to for four years, which means that this government is absolutely inoperable, incompetent and incapable of any action. And that's been said many times today. I thank the ANO and ČSSD Members for confirming this today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u105	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Minister Zaorálek has also made a point of fact. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u106	Yes, thank you. Of course, the government was not completely dysfunctional. I'm sure that's not true. That sometimes the opposition criticized us, that's her role. She may even have helped us with her reminders at times. So that's how we co-opered here. In conclusion, I would say that I understand Mr Babiš, that he did not really like to devote the whole space to his family's nest here today, because it was not a very pleasant topic for him. I am referring to the family nest where weddings are held and so on and to which the European Union contributes. And since this is not a pleasant topic, here we have turned to some other topics that we have opened and discussed here. And in the end, it seemed that OKD and its consolidation were the phenomenal result of Mr. Babiš. I'd like to correct that a little bit just for accuracy. I would like to remind Mr Babiš that when it came to OKD's financial contribution, he was certainly not the one who supported it. When it came to the miners' rent, he wasn't too happy about it either. And as for what to do with OKD, as for the fact that it eventually managed to get into the hands of the state, I have the impression that he wanted to privatize it to someone, I don't know who. So our role here was that we didn't allow this to happen to what Mr. Babiš imagined. This is where I'd like to turn against the fact that we just wanted to smuggle someone in. We just wanted OKD to get under state control because it gives us, I think it gives even the people who work there the best chance for the future. So I would see our role in the whole process a little differently than Mr. Babiš, but I think everyone understands that. Thank you. That's my period. And otherwise, I hope we finally get to the bottom line and decide what we could have done about eight hours ago.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u107	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. I have four more factual points here. I remind you, electronics have priority. Mr Faltýnek, Mr Lank, Mr Blažek, Mrs Černochová. Now, then, Mr Faltýnek, with a point of fact. Is Mr Babiš reporting with facts or with due cause? [[Member of the Babiš: De facto.]] In fact, okay, I'm noticing. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u108	Thank you, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, it's not a very happy day for me. However, now I am finally entertained by the performance of a nice fellow chairman of the TOP 09 Club Michal Kučera, who evaluated our government here, which therefore lasted four years, unlike their government. I think that concrete, real government results are important. And we all know that your government, with your finance minister Kalousek, has created the state debt of our country, the debt and the deficit of CZK 600 billion. This is the result of your government, my colleague, through Mr President. Thank you. You've amused me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u109	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, then, Mr Martin Lank, with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u110	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon. I confess, I'm starting to get a little lost. There's now OKD, the settlement of the Song... I don't know, were the solar barons already or weren't they yet, or is it just yet? [[Fun in the hall.]] Here koukat am: Requesting the consent of the Chamber of Deputies to prosecute Members. [[shows the light board]] Both Members have made it clear that they want to be issued. We're all kind of clear now. Like if we want to deal with everything that's ever gone wrong with this government and previous governments, we're gonna be here for a long time. I'm afraid we may not even make the election. Please, let's vote this out.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u111	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Pavel Blažek, with a point of fact. A colleague of mine, Černochová, will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u112	Thank you for the floor. I have such a request for Mr Babiš's speech. I've been thinking about it for a long time because a certain type of argument is wrong. Because I know he's got a lot of supporters, so let's make sure that this opinion spreads somehow. The argument that anyone who has not built a doghouse or who has not done business cannot be a good politician at the same time is wrong. It's just not like that. When you think of politicians who meant something: Masaryk, Havel, Thatcherová, Churchill - they certainly didn't do business, they didn't build a doghouse and their trail is absolutely not only in our history but also European history. Do not use this argument. I'm not saying that a businessman may not be a bad statesman, he may be a good statesman, but it doesn't automatically apply. That's really two different spheres. If I put it simply, you need a lot of abstract thinking and a certain education in humanities for politics. You can't do it without it. This was written once even by Edvard Beneš in his book Democracy today and tomorrow, which I otherwise disagree with, but in this he was right that you must have a terrible amount of knowledge about politics. I don't doubt that business experience is useful, but it doesn't automatically mean everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u113	Thank you. Now, Mrs Jana Černochová, Mr Andrej Babiš will also be prepared for a factual remark. Mrs Černochová cancels, Mr Andrej Babiš, Mr Martin Komárek will prepare. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u114	I'm sure I agree with my colleague Blažek that I'm a bad politician. But worst of all, total economic amateurs sit in government. And that's the case with Secretary of Zaorálek. We've had x debates about this. He doesn't understand that property, property can cost money. Now I read somewhere that he's going to invest in that ugly communist embassy in Berlin - that's a terrible house - 525 million. That's a building where there's almost no one left. When I told him it was a great place, sell it, get a lot of money and move the embassy somewhere else, or in Japan, when I told him that Golf IV was doing minus 20 a year, you quickly cleaned it up under the House so you could go to your parties. That's what this is about. The debate between an economic amateur who doesn't understand business, doesn't understand what money is, doesn't understand what real estate is, and keeps talking about OKD. I had to protect the OKD because you wanted to get your friends there again, when Mládek wanted the head of accounting, you wanted spots. There was no one there during the ANO movement, only the pros. [[Cheer up in the right side of the hall.]] So please don't even talk about the OKD anymore. I married him... Yes, I preferred some private company to buy it. Why does it even own the state? But at this point, the OKD has been working since I took over under the Treasury. It's not about someone building a doghouse, but either they understand the economy, they understand real estate, they understand business, or they're a politician's whole life. And that's what I'm talking about! And this is not the case with Mr. Zaorálek, who wants to have some kind of economic discussion here and he doesn't understand it at all!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u115	Mr. Ambassador, your time for a point of fact is over. Now Mr Martin Komárek's point of fact, Mr Pavel Kováčik, Mrs Pekarová, Mrs Černochová and Mr Kalousek will be prepared for the factual remark. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u116	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, of course I didn't want to perform anymore, because it was recommended by our President, but when he himself performs vehemently, I will follow his example. [[cheerfulness and applause in the right side of the hall]] And you're gonna say I'm... well, I'll leave that to you. It's funny. I think it's fun for all of us, except for the Prime Minister of the Zaorálek, who's deadly serious. So let me recommend another joke. It's a book that came out a week ago called Dangerous herd or Czech MP and other retarded species. I am not going to name the author, but I can guarantee you that the author is going to have a second episode on the basis of this debate, which will be called Even more dangerous herd and even more retarded species. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u117	Thank you for keeping the time to Mr Martin Komárek. Before I give the floor to Mr Kováčik, I apologise for today's meeting of Minister Robert Pelikán, who apologizes from this moment to the end of the day. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u118	Thank you, Mr President. Allow me to react briefly to the debate and ask your colleague Babiš, but also some others, to stop 28 years after the coup with this rhetoric about the ugly communist anything. Over the 28 years, there's been a lot of debate today, other horrible, horrible things, so talk about them as well. History is what happened after the coup. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u119	Thank you, Mr Kováčik. Now, Mrs Adamová Pekarová. After that, Minister Zaorálek. Sorry, not yet, Madam. Minister, if you are signed up for a factual remark, I repeat once again that, according to the Rules of Procedure, it has an electronic priority, and so if you sign up electronically, you will be with Mr Kalousek, who is the last to be logged in so far. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u120	Thank you for the floor. I'm also impressed that an ex-communist here criticizes what was created under the former regime. But that's not what I wanted to talk about. Most of the members and members of the ANO movement have already been replaced here as apostles on the astronomical clock. We've heard a lot here. We have now also learned from Mr Babiš that anyone who has not built a doghouse is practically not entitled to speak. You know, the difference between about 199 of us compared to you, Mr President, is that, unlike you, we didn't build a stable for white horses either. But let's vote now, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u121	Thank you for keeping time. Now, Mrs Jana Černochová, with a point of fact. Mr Kalousek will also prepare for a factual remark. Then Minister Zaorálek. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u122	My dear people, some friends, do we need this? Is it? [[The O.R. says it is.]] Don't you want to vote today, wrap it up? Why are we still here on Thursday, Friday, next week? What you members of the government coalition are doing here, perhaps, is compared to just one song by the favourite supporter of President Babiš, the Kryštof Group, loving couples before divorce. Do we need this? Now I'm talking about us, coalition. Members. Our President Fiala and we, together with him, have suggested that the elections be premature when the divorce between you has already occurred before the summer break, when the Czech public has witnessed the argument about who will be at the Ministry of Finance, whether Mr Sobotka will fall first, or whether Mr Babiš will fall first. That's when we begged you to put an end to our misery and go to early elections. In this same spirit, Mr Kováčik spoke, but they voted in a different form. Let's just get this over with, please. Today, let us vote on this proposal, and let the presidents of each of the various club members agree on a dignified end to this baggallery. I think the taxpayers will forgive us for not sitting here for three more days and breaking up with our regions and discussing who will reunite here after the proper elections of October in the Chamber of Deputies. This really isn't gonna last.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u123	Thank you, Mrs Jana Černochová. Now, Mr Miroslav Kalousek, also with a factual remark. Then Minister Zaorálek also made a point of fact. Mr. Chairman, you have your word. I'm taking your time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u124	Very briefly. Mr. Babiš here approached Minister Zaorálek for being an amateur in the field of real estate, property management and micromanagement. It is not my job as an opposition politician, but I would like to stand up for Minister Zaorálek. He is probably not an expert on this matter, but even standard experts do not touch President Babiš's knees. The brilliance with which he knows his property, his real estate, to shift, to change ownership structures, to deliberately hide in time so that at any moment he can draw on them a subsidy or gain a tax advantage, none of us here has such brilliance, whether we have devoted ourselves to the economy or not. That, Mr President, is where you are.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u125	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Minister Zaorálek also made a point of fact. Please, you have your word. I'm also taking your time, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u126	Yes, thank you. I would like to say here that the government that is still here has a lot of success. I think one that I realize today is that, for example, in that government, some who joined it as novices come out of it as professionals. I would like to say that today I was convinced by Andrej Babiš, who actually entered that government as an amateur, that he is a real political professional today, because he proved today, during those hours here, the debate to be conducted on the family nest to be a debate that was about what Mr Zaorálek does not understand. That's a brilliant piece and it's proof of professionalism! Congratulations and welcome Mr. Babiš to the professionals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u127	Thank you, Minister Zaorálek, for keeping time on the point of fact. Since I don't have an application, I'm asking again if anyone's checking in from the scene. I see no one, and the debate is over. [[Let's hear it.]] It has succeeded, I hope, that no minister will speak so that we do not have to reopen the debate. I'm asking about the final words of the rapporteurs. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Mr Huml as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u128	Thank you, we have divided the role, Jiří Dolejš as the second rapporteur will speak in a detailed debate, I will now just sum up a little bit of what we have forgotten to do at the beginning perhaps. Today's debate was really trash, so I wondered who the bad guy was and who the hero was. I mean, I couldn't answer for a while, but let's take a look. You have two resolutions, please, which you received yesterday, 214 and 215. In that full introduction, the deed for which we will give the two Members is described and followed by a very detailed report, which we will then refer to in the second resolution that we will adopt. We will refer to these two resolutions if we vote on it. I wanted to get acquainted - but I would also like to say this, these two resolutions, the 214 and 215, which really contain only the deed and reflect the police's request, so these two resolutions were voted unanimously on the mandate and immune committee. What has not been voted unanimously is Resolution 216 and 217, which I have yet to draw attention to in the general debate. The first, the two hundred and sixty-six, concerns the police's request to issue Andrej Babiš and Mr Ing. Faltýnek. After the opening word of the Chamber of Deputies, after hearing Mr Andrej Babiš's observations and after the debate, it recommends that the Chamber of Deputies agree to prosecute Mr Ing. Babiš, n.o.b. 2. 9. 1954. Secondly, she instructs the President of the mandate committee to present a resolution to the Chamber of Deputies at the 60th meeting of the House. So that's 216. And two hundred and twenty-seven, the same thing applies to the other, . Jaroslav Faltýnek, and once again the mandate committee recommends that the Chamber of Deputies agree to prosecute and instructs the President to read it here. These two resolutions were no longer adopted unanimously, but by a majority of the votes of the mandate and immunity committee. That's what I was gonna say to straighten it out. That's just the way it was. The debate was trash, and at times it wasn't about Chapi's čapí or the problem of expressing consent to prosecution, but it was about other problems, and I'm quite sorry that it became a political debate. It could have been a very technical solution at the very beginning, and it might have been better. Everything from me, thank you for the word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u129	Thank you. Does colleague Dolejš, as rapporteur, have an interest in the final word? I remind you that this is the final word after the general debate that I have concluded, and we will have to launch a debate in detail in which the proposals referred to by my colleague Huml will fall, although it will probably just refer to them, which will fill in the Rules of Procedure. rapporteur Jiří Dolejš, with the final word after the general debate. That was your will, gentlemen. There's nothing I can do about it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u130	I think after spending the useful seven hours, we're back to square one. So, when we have made it clear that we have our mandates from the voters, and the mandates after October 2017 will also be from the voters, we have to admit that the courts are in charge and we are here today to decide on the immune process, which is to what extent we want to give way to another legal solution to the problem. So that's ahead of us. Now, if I could take the vote. It's basically simple, it's been said in here -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u131	No, in that case, Mr rapporteur, we cannot do that. If you have finished your final word, we can proceed to the debate in detail, and in this debate it is necessary to present proposals that you have approved on the mandate and immunity committee, because this item without the resolution of the mandate and immunity committee is otherwise impossible, unlike other points where the committee does not have to adopt an opinion and the House can decide. It's a little different here. Now you have the floor in a detailed debate, Mr rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u132	I knew I'd see it. So if you don't mind, it's simple. Both the President's introductory words and the rapporteur's fellow Members have announced that prints were distributed to you on the bench, on which is the resolution of the mandate and immunity committee No 214 and 215. We should now decide on these by voting. I am of the opinion that the Committee has recommended that we vote on them individually, i.e. two cases, two motions for resolutions, two decisions. The first proposal is based on the recommendation of the Immune Committee that the Chamber of Deputies pursuant to Rule 27 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 Act No. 1/1993 Coll., the Constitution of the Czech Republic, as amended, and Section 12 of Act No. 90/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, as amended, gives its consent to the criminal prosecution of Mr . Andrej Babiš, n.o.b. 2. 9. 1955. - Sorry, 1954, I got you a little younger. [[Note from the diaper: With extradition to prosecution.]] Yes, with extradition to prosecution. I'm sorry. Of course there's a description of the deed on five pages, I don't really have to reproduce it, it's on the benches. That's one vote. The second vote, like a copycat, I don't think I'm gonna tire you out again, it's the same reference to the same paragraph. It therefore states consent to the extradition of criminal prosecutions, so the name changes, of course, there is an Mr . Jaroslav Faltýnek, n.o.b. On April 28th - not to rejuvenate him - 1962. That's two voting steps.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u133	Who else in the detailed debate? I don't see anyone. Well, in a detailed debate, Mr Jaroslav Faltýnek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u134	I'm sorry, I'm not a lawyer, but then a fellow rapporteur here fixed it, but I believe that the wording sounds like he's consenting to extradition and not consenting to prosecution. Isn't that right? [[Yes.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u135	Of course, you have a basis that is a mandate and an immune committee, and then we have a detailed debate here to either leave it in its original form, or the rapporteur or one of the other Members, because everyone has the right to propose it, and they will adjust it as it is given. Who else in the detailed debate? I don't see anyone, I'm ending the debate in detail. I note that after a detailed debate before the vote, the ANO club asked for 30 minutes of breaks, which I will announce, and I will meet you in 18.10. I am interrupting the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies to 18.10 for a meeting of the ANO Group of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u136	Madam, ladies and gentlemen, the time for a break is up and we will continue with the adjourned negotiations. I'll read an apology. Today, from 18.15 to the end of the day, Minister of Defence Martin Stropnickýý apologizes for working reasons. The detailed debate has been closed and the motions for resolutions have been tabled. I will ask the rapporteur, Mr Jiří Dolejš, to present the motions for resolutions on which we will vote. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u137	I have, of course, stood here in the rhetorical area, but since before we broke up, there was - perhaps my doing, for which I apologize - a slight noise over the precise diction of the resolution. If there were dictionaries in the written documents you had "The Chamber of Deputies agrees to prosecute," and we've been doing a little bit from the rhetoric here, whether or not to put in the agreement "to issue a criminal prosecution," so I'd just like to point out that what you have in written materials is an exact diction of the Rules of Procedure Act. We should therefore vote on this because I do not think that it is happy to have a little bit of work on such a sensitive problem. Let's stick to the diction of the law, that's what I think we're counting on. It was always like this when we voted on immunity in the last maybe 20 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u138	Thank you. Now, please take us through the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u139	Okay, one more time, but in that case, I'm gonna go get my vote card so I don't get deprived.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u140	Okay. I'm registering a request for your check-out. So I'm going to check you out first, and I'm going to ask you to rejoin your voting cards. Please, we can continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u141	I'm here. Our first vote in terms of the proposals read in the detailed debate is that the Chamber of Deputies agrees to prosecute Mr . Andrej Babiš.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u142	Thank you. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? It is a vote with order number 28, registered 134 Members and Members, for proposal 123, against 4. This proposal has been approved. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u143	The second step is similar, i.e. that the Chamber of Deputies agrees to prosecute Mr.Faltýnek this time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u144	Thank you. Initiating vote. We can vote. All in favor, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 29, with 133 Members registered, for proposal 120, against 5. I note that this proposal has also been approved. Madame, come in. I assume this concerns the vote in progress. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u145	This concerns the vote in progress. Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, I was here to make it clear with the rapporteur that the two votes concern resolutions 214 and 215 which have been tabled in writing to us and, therefore, that we have voted on these resolutions. We have made that clear, the rapporteur pointed it out before the vote, and unfortunately I did not have time to prosecute Mr Ing in the latter case when it came to resolution 215. Jaroslav Faltýnek, there will be a voting device, so I will have on record that I have not taken part in the vote. I do not question the vote, please just putting this reason on the screen record. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-004-045.u146	Thank you, too. Given that we have dealt with all the resolutions on this point, both proposals have been approved, I thank you and conclude this point. I'm opening up another point in today's meeting. That's what it is.
