ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-005-289.u1	289. Oral inhalation which are intended for the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, the Government of the Czech Republic and other members of the Government. Today, with the participation of the verifiers, we have drawn the ranking of Members in which they will speak and submit oral interviews first to Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka or the Government of the Czech Republic, then to other members of the government. The lists of Members according to the winning order have been distributed to you in the benches. I would like to draw attention to all Members of the Government, as well as to the Government's intercessors, that the interpelations on the members of the Government will begin immediately after the application for an interview on the absent Prime Minister has been exhausted. I now give the floor to Mr Michal Kučer, who was drawn in the first place to present his oral interview with the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, Bohuslav Sobotka. The next will be prepared by Mrs Věra Kovářová. Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka is excused and will answer in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador. [[Call off the microphone.]] I'm sorry, you can.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-005-289.u2	Hello, thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, Sir absent Prime Minister, the Chamber of Deputies has called on you to invite the Czech Government this January to conduct an independent forensic audit of the construction of the section of the D8 motorway between Lovosice and Řehlovice. This audit is intended to sum up the examination of the construction preparation, to include or to include the quality of the project and the performance of the technical supervision of the construction. There is also talk of legal audit of concluded contracts, including additions, compliance with the Public Procurement Act and analysis of multi-work. The deadline laid down by the Chamber of Deputies is June this year. Dear Prime Minister, I would like to ask when the audit was launched and when the results of the audit will be presented to the House. I believe that this section of the motorway is not linked to one cost of own construction, but it is also a situation with groundwater and monitoring and other measures related to the hydrogeological storage of the building and the fact that the underground water in the various municipalities is lost in connection with the work on this motorway. The second question is what is being done in relation to municipalities affected by the change in groundwater ratio. My third question, Prime Minister, is when the D8 motorway will be operational in both directions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-005-289.u3	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Your interpellation will be answered in writing. Mrs Věra Kovářová will speak with the next interview and Mr Ludvík Hovorka will be prepared. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-005-289.u4	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, the actual findings of the SAO regarding the manner in which the Ministry of Finance's accounts are kept, where the difference between millions and billions does not seem to play a major role, create a number of questions. The question of how the Ministry of Finance keeps its accounts, how its accounts are kept by a state whose accounting authority is the Ministry of Finance. The doubt that has occurred is also remarkable given the demands imposed by this Ministry of Finance and this state on citizens and entrepreneurs. Prime Minister, do you agree with me that this is a mess in the case of poorly kept accounting at the Ministry of Finance? What will you do so that it does not repeat itself so that the public can have the necessary elementary trust to act as a public authority? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-005-289.u5	Thank you, Madame. Mr Ludvík Hovorka, Mr. Antonín Seďa, will take the next step with his intervention. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-005-289.u6	Prime Minister, thank you for your written reply to the last interview on the audit of the D8 - 805 motorway. The purpose of the audit is to verify whether the technical content of the project documentation, the actual implementation of the construction, all the documents obtained and surveys including monitoring were technically correct. It is necessary to verify whether all the participants of the construction, i.e. the designer, investor and external technical supervision, have been observed in the preparation and implementation of the construction. The audit procedure should therefore be properly structured as follows: Firstly, the examination of the construction preparation, the verification of whether the construction assignment and the project documentation had complied with the applicable technical requirements according to the technical quality conditions of the Ministry of Transport, whether the requirements of the mayors of the municipalities and the conditions of the CHKO, noise studies, whether all the land and the valid building permits for all building buildings, inspection of the passport buildings and bypass access roads prior to the start of the construction, inspection of hydrogeological monitoring, monitoring of the territory, focus of the territory in accordance with the regulations of the Ministry of Transport. Furthermore, the compliance check whether the developed documentation of the contractor corresponds to the investor's specifications. Second, the performance of the technical supervision activity and the construction manager, i.e. the inspection of the concluded contract, whether it complies with the regulations of the Ministry of Transport for carrying out the activities and responsibilities of the technical supervision, and then whether the supervisory arrangements correspond to the regulations of the Ministry of Transport, including the control of building diaries, the checking of records concerning water and faults in the post-slaughter at the site of the future roll-out of 2013, the inspection of supervision during the construction of the Prackovická stacade with a focus on measured movements of the backrest and establishment of the Prague Back, the control of concrete installation and the interruption of concrete, the monitoring of the performance of geotechnical supervision, whether the detection of geotechnical surveillance was taken into account during the construction, the focus on the breach of technical supervision obligations and the construction manager. Control of the management of the construction by the investor, the administrator of the construction, how the inspection carried out, what instructions were issued, checks of entries from the consultancy and the solution of the construction issue. Third, check your own construction. Fourthly, analysis of multi-work, i.e. checking of multi-work approval protocols, checking of technical justifications, checking of building permits for the modification of construction buildings and the construction of new building buildings, checking of calculations and prices of multi-work, checking of land purchases for new building buildings. For these reasons, I ask that the award of the D8 audit be adjusted according to these requirements, so that the audit is not formal, but it is a document enabling the whole process of preparation and construction to be assessed correctly. Thank you for handling this interpellation. The entry I received last time in writing that will be adjusted according to these requirements. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-005-289.u7	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Next, Mr Seďa will speak with his intervention and Mr Bendl will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-005-289.u8	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister, the SAO examined how the Ministry of Finance kept accounting, prepared final accounts of chapters managed by the Ministry of Finance and submitted data for the evaluation of the implementation of the State budget for 2015. In the case of accounting checks, auditors have revealed a number of irregularities, especially in off-balance-sheet accounts, where there are irregularities for more than CZK 31 billion. [[14.40 hours]] The audit also showed that there are systemic risks in the field of state reporting and that there are no clear rules for reporting certain data, which may affect the form of the state final account and the financial statements for the whole Czech Republic. The SAO found the largest volume of incorrect data reported in the financial statements. It is about irregularities in total for more than 108 billion crowns. Auditors also found that The Ministry of Finance did not create any accounting reserves or reduce the value of any assets, which distorts the state of its assets or its actual liabilities by up to tens of billions of crowns. The 2010 reform of the State's accounts requires the Ministry of Finance to carry out these actions. If the Ministry fails to correct these deficiencies, the errors will affect the compilation of the accounting statements for the Czech Republic. Dear Prime Minister, in my opinion, the errors detected in the Ministry of Finance are very serious, which cannot be tolerated, not only because it is the guarantor of the state budget and the transparent distribution of taxpayers' money. However, the SAO report shows that the Minister of Finance rather preaches water and drinks wine. And I really don't want to talk about his past business activities, which are being investigated by law enforcement authorities today. Therefore, I want to ask how the Ministry of Finance has removed the detected systemic errors and whether the same errors occur in the Ministry of Finance's final account for 2016. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-005-289.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You fit right in time. Next, Mr Petr Bendl will appear and Mr Herbert Pavera will be prepared. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-005-289.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, when discussing the final account of the Ministry of Agriculture's management we had in the material and now I quote/ matters relating to foreign service trips: The Ministry of Agriculture staff carried out a total of 900 foreign service and work trips in 2016 amounting to 11,32 million. Kč. I wonder if almost 900 foreign service trips to the Ministry of Agriculture are adequate, as it appears in other ministries, whether we happen to be the Ministry of Agriculture or rather the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-005-289.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Herbert Pavera will speak with his intervention and Mr Tomio Okamura will be prepared. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-005-289.u12	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, although you are missing today, I believe you will answer me soon. On Monday 24th April, the story of Jaromír Kryštof, an entrepreneur, was broadcast on the ČT Reporters' programme, which was effectively destroyed by a functioning company and caused the loss of employment not only by the owner himself, but also by all employees who became unemployed from so-called day to day. Not only did this story confirm that there is something wrong with the Financial Administration of the Czech Republic. In recent weeks and months, other entrepreneurs from the Moravian-Silesian Region have approached me and complained about this state authority, which, without prior notice, will block their property for several years. I followed with absolute dismay the information that, despite the decision of the Supreme Administrative Court, the financial administration is proceeding in a similar way in other cases. I listened to Martin Janeček, Director General of the Financial Administration of the Czech Republic, with even greater horror. Every company sees a white horse, every businessman sees a suspect or a thief. Dear Prime Minister, the Ministry of Finance and its financial administration are part of the executive, headed by the Prime Minister. How do you face this problem? Are you really going to let the financial administration destroy Czech entrepreneurs? Dear Prime Minister, I would like to ask you whether you consider it appropriate that a person who questions the conclusions of the Supreme Administrative Court should be at the head of such an important state organization as the Financial Administration of the Czech Republic? Don't you think it's suspicious that the warranty order was given to companies that never had a problem paying taxes? And don't you find it odd that some of these companies are likely to be interested in the finance minister himself? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-005-289.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Your interview will be answered in writing within 30 days. Now, Mr Tomio Okamura. Mr. Marek Černoch will be ready. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-005-289.u14	Prime Minister, you said that the victory of Emmanuel Macron in the French presidential elections would be good news for France and the Czech Republic. Presidential candidate Emmanuel Macron said that "the open-door policy for the mass migration of German Chancellor Merkelová saved our collective honor" and that Merkelová's criticism is "disgusting simplification." He confirmed that he supported Chancellor Merkelová's migration policy even after the Berlin attack by the Islamic State, committed by the Tunisian migrant Anis. Macron also said that he thought that France, after deadly attacks, including Nice and Paris, was disproportionately attacking Muslims and pointed out that the country should be less strict in applying the rules of secularism. Macron claims that France and Europe should receive more migrants than before. And it is no wonder that for this public support for Muslim migration to Europe, the Paris Great Mosque and the National Muslim Federation called on the French Muslims to vote for Macron. Prime Minister, you officially and publicly support Macron and, on the contrary, condemn his opponent, Marine Le Pen, who opposes the Muslim colonization of Europe. Say quite clearly, do you, like your favorite Macron and your mutual friend Merkelová, support Muslim migration to Europe, or are you in favour of the Muslim migration stopping and Europe saving its traditional values, as we, our movement Freedom and Direct Democracy SPD and Marine Le Pen ask? Try to give a clear answer, because by publicly applying to Macron, it is clear that you share his idea that the more Muslims in Europe, the better. On the contrary, it is known that our Freedom and Direct Democracy movement of the SPD promotes zero tolerance for migration within the current migration wave and we also promote a ban on promoting Islamic Sharia and jihad law in the territory of our Republic. We in the SPD therefore advocate the exact opposite of you, Prime Minister, Angela Merkelová and the candidate for French President Emmanuel Macron. Thank you for the exact answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-005-289.u15	Thank you for keeping the time exactly. Next, Mr Marek Černoch, who I do not see in the hall, has been interviewed, so his application is forfeit. The next in line is, therefore, Mr Herbert Pavera, who will bring forward his intervention on the abuse of the freezing order. I don't see him here either, so his application is failing. Another application is made again by Mr Marek Černoch, who I do not see here. We are getting to application number 11, Mr. Mr. Petr Bendl. [[Ambassador Bendl wonders if it's his turn again.]] We're fast. Please, you have the floor. There's no rush.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-005-289.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, dear absent Prime Minister, my question is simple. The forests of the Czech Republic are planning a billion-dollar investment by buying forests in Romania. I want to know how you feel about this as Prime Minister, whether the government will discuss this matter and what position you have on this matter. Unfortunately, in the past, we have often had negative experience of investing state or parastatal entities abroad, and I think that such a thing should not escape attention, everyone should know about what investment it is, why it is done, how it is supervised, how it will be controlled, whether specifically with ice material, with wood, it will be - if you support it as a government and you support it to do something such a state enterprise of the Forest of the Czech Republic abroad, and buy it for a billion forests - if you are sure that the investment is perfectly safe and perfectly guarded. I'm worried about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-005-289.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The answer will be in writing within 30 days. Mr Ludvík Hovorka will now speak with his intervention and Mr Herbert Pavera will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-005-289.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Prime Minister, in the context of the newly created problems surrounding the construction of the D8 805, which concern the entire section of this construction Lovosice - Řehlovice, I would like to request a review of the mayor's complaint. First of all, the mayors are complaining about raising noise from the traffic of the highway in this section. I note that this is an area of CHKO with the exception granted. We're not only protecting animals, we're protecting people in particular. Noise is created by crossing bridge conclusions on all the estakads and spreading through the valley to a great distance. The mayors believe that these bridge elements are faulty or misinbuilt. Also built noise barriers according to them do not fulfil the function for which they were set up. The same problem concerns the light (?) at night, light loads with long-range truck lights, but also personal vehicles. Mayors of the villages Dobkovičky, Prackovice and Litochovice record 60 objects where there have been failures, loss of springs or new occurrence of springs due to change of water regime throughout this area. They complain that the Road and Motorway Directorate does not communicate with the mayors, does not participate in meetings, and the ŘSD staff refer to the fact that they are not competent to attend meetings. This case has already appeared in the media. Even today on Czech TV, on Barrandov TV, footage from these municipalities, complaints from mayors and citizens were broadcast. Since the construction costs reached almost 15 billion. Kroner, there shouldn't be a depopulation around the highway. I stress that the disdainful approach of the Road and Motorway Directorate to these problems of both people and municipalities may cause complications when discussing future projects of motorway construction in municipalities, because after these experiences the municipalities will not be too willing to cooperate with the state administration. I received a list of documents from the Minister that were processed for this construction. I'll allow you to pass on the part that would need to be requested to assess the malfunctions of the construction sites. [[Your time, Mr. Ambassador!]] So I will allow myself to send this list to the Office of the Government and ask for proof of these documents within 30 days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-005-289.u19	Thank you, too. It will be answered in writing. Next is Mr Herbert Pavera, who has not arrived. His application is forfeit and will be heard by Mr. Petr Bendl with his interview number 14. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-005-289.u20	Thank you for the floor. My colleague Pavera actually had the same interpellation a while ago, at least it allows me to follow up on her. I was also offended by the information provided by the Czech Television in Reporters on the so-called issue. the provision or use of reinsurance orders by the General Financial Directorate, when the state is demanding some amount from someone, in this case, after an entrepreneur who has never had any problem with the state, he cannot run anywhere, he has been doing business here honestly for decades, and suddenly there appears some sort of commando that builds accounts, builds property, collects all money, a car, at a much higher value than what the State applies by saying that someone has not paid VAT. I consider it an abuse of state power and official arrogance, and it is a question of who and what such a thing serves. I would like to know how such orders are handled, how many have been issued in the Czech Republic, how many have been issued in multiple or higher value than the announced debt to the State and the reasons for this. In the event that it occurs - which is evident that it is taking place - abuse of authority, I think, from the position of General Financial Directorate in this regard, then I ask, Prime Minister, what measures will you take to ensure that nothing like this ever happens again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-005-289.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, and I'm going to ask you to stay at the counter, because you're going to be next with your next interpellation on the construction of highways. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-005-289.u22	Thank you for the floor. In the Czech Republic, it is basically not stopped. The Ministry of Transport is unable to draw European money on the construction of new roads. However, the Minister of Transport has recently announced that construction will begin and that from September to December this year he will definitely start a number of buildings. There were doubts in the professional public that something like this would change significantly, since the buildings were not prepared. I wanted assurances from the Prime Minister that it would not only be an election gag, but that constructions would be launched, which would really, really start, even though it is very unusual, because usually all larger buildings or we should start in the spring rather than in the autumn and winter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-005-289.u23	Thank you, too. Now I'll read the apology that arrived afterwards. Mr Bohuslav Chalupa apologizes from today between 14.30 and 19.00 due to negotiations in the electoral region. I warn the Chamber of Deputies, respectively. present that we have exhausted all applications for oral interpelations addressed to the Prime Minister and will now follow oral interpellation with other members of the Government. I ask Mrs Ivana Dobešová to give an interview to the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports, Kateřina Valachová, and thus initiate the answers of the members of the Government to the interpelation of Members. Mr Kučera will be ready. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-005-289.u24	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear colleagues, I am taking advantage of my opportunity to interpel an absent Minister of Education, Mrs Valachová, in the course of the recruitment procedure. For the first time this year there is an admission procedure for the high school run by Cermat, in the first round of the admission procedure in two terms. This has been done, and I've noticed some violations, from my point of view, of violations, of regulations. Section 60a of the Education Act para. 2 it is said that the application for admission to the first year of graduations is to be made on a form established by the Ministry of Education. Point 4 states that for the first round of the admission procedure, the applicant may submit no more than two applications and point 5 states that the deadline for submitting the application is as of 1. 3rd given school year. During the admission procedure, namely in the second term, one school noted that the applicant who had written this school in the second order had not been present. As soon as she reached her parents or legal representatives, this school was informed that they had communicated with Cermat and another school that the school would change in the second term of the first round's admission procedure. Neither Cermat nor the parents of the school nor the school at which Cermat provided the application in the second order gave this information to this school, which was not informed. I wonder, then, because, of course, the school - or Cermat instructed parents to apologize to the school and state the reason. [[Your time, Madame!]] So my question is, where in the law or internal regulation of the Ministry of Education is given the authority of Cermat to change the school. Secondly, how the outcome of this second term of the applicant's admission examination will be assessed and, thirdly, if Cermat has broken the legislation on whether the Ministry of Education will produce the personnel consequences of this step. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-005-289.u25	Thank you. Next time, you'll have to do better than that, colleague. Mr. Michal Kučera will be the next to speak with his intervention and will interpel the present Minister of Transport Dan Ťok. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-005-289.u26	Thank you, I was surprised to see the Minister here. Ladies and gentlemen, the deadline for completing the D7 motorway from Prague to Chomutov was originally set after several extensions for 2023, however, this deadline has been called into question in recent months by the management of the Road and Motorways Directorate, stating that there is no property settlement of the land, which was probably also known before this deadline was set, and that these are still some other activities in terms of compensation and exemptions in the case of environmental impact. [[15.00 hours]] I'd like to ask the Minister. Minister, what is the current timetable for completion of the D7 motorway, and who is responsible for the further delay? At the same time, I would like to point out that another dramatic problem, at least that bit of the four-way D7 motorway, is chaotic repairs that cause narrowing and limiting traffic to such a hard-tested road. Here I would mention, for example, the current closure at the airport or the closure on the 17th kilometer of the highway, where the repairs of the surface, bridge structures, the repair of the guardrails, which do not follow up on each other differently. So the resulting situation is that these sections are almost permanently narrowed. My question is similar. That's what it means. Who is responsible specifically for coordinating repairs on the D7 motorway? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-005-289.u27	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I now give the floor to the Minister of Transport Dan Ťok. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-005-289.u28	Mr Vice-President, honourable Member, honourable Members. About the questions that fell on me. Given that the interpellation was written on the situation of repairs on the D7 motorway, I will honestly admit that I will now not spew out all the terms that Mr Kučera has requested through you, Mr Vice-President. I suggest that I send him these terms in writing so that he can have them at his disposal. As far as the repairs on the D7 motorway are concerned, I would like to say that the surface of the Kněževes off-level crossroads, exit 3, which is connected with the closure of the exit from the direction Slaný and the raid in the direction Prague, is currently being repaired. This closure ends tomorrow, 28 April 2017. Originally, this closure was due to end on 30 April, but due to coordination with another closure, which as a road administration allows the City Hall of Prague, was only allowed until tomorrow. So I'm also saying here that even these closures are coordinated and permitted by the Road Administration of the City of Prague. The D7 motorway is also being repaired, namely the surface of the right treadmill in km 17 to 18, which is at the end of the highway. The traffic here is conducted in the opposite direction. At the Knoviz crossroads at exit 18 there is a closure of the exit from the direction Prague and the raid on the road 1/7. This closure ends on 31 May 2017. Technical administration of the roads, i.e. the manager of local roads in the territory of the capital city of Prague, is repairing the left track of the connecting road Lipská. The operation here is conducted in the right lane in the direction of Prague only by one lane. According to our information, this closet creates regular motorcades on the D7 motorway. I would just add that I have dealt with this situation several times since they complained to me about why at this rather busy crossroads - there is an exit from the airport and there are regular motorcades - nothing happens on weekends. That's how I dealt with even the mayor I asked for an intervention because the company that fixes it works on the highway seven days a week for 14 hours. And it would probably be good for them to work equally intensively on this busy journey, because it really bothers the driver there. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-005-289.u29	Thank you, Minister. I ask the honourable Member if he is interested in an additional question? [[Yes.]] He does. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-005-289.u30	Thank you. It's more or less enough for me. I'd just really like that written information. It was clear to me that it was very difficult, of course, to answer that question. Just the repairs at the airport. Of course, I know that this is not in the competence of the Minister of Transport. I realize that this is the responsibility of the capital city of Prague. It is true - I go there every morning - on Monday at 8:00 there were three workers present. On Monday morning, when there is really the biggest traffic, people go to work, more or less the wave is slowly fading - so it's kind of a mockery that workers only meet there at eight o'clock. But I know it's not your responsibility.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-005-289.u31	Thank you. It wasn't a question, so the Minister won't respond anymore. Madame Markéta Wernerová will be the next to speak with her intervention. He will interpel the finance minister Andrej Babiš. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-005-289.u32	Dear absent minister. Let me interpel you on the future of the Thermal Hotel in Karlovy Vary. You might be interested to know that this is the most common topic of my conversations with the citizens of Karlovy Vary. In this context I also have a number of questions, opinions, comments relating to the future of this, whether wanted or unwanted, but clearly important architectural symbol of the city of Karlovy Vary. People who turn to me are concerned about the future of this regional city icon. They ask what intentions the State has to become as the owner through the Ministry of Finance you run. They learned from the media in June 2014 about a complete exchange of leadership, which, however, lasted only one month in office. Before management changed completely again. But that wasn't the end of it. Over the next few months, four people took turns running the hotel. You personally said it would be better if the state sold the hotel. But later on, you said it wasn't part of the plan. Then you brought up the possibility of selling an outdoor pool. This is how the media quote you: "It would be good to sell it to an Arab sheik, perhaps, and for his money it could be invested. " The intention to use the funds falls after a short period of time and then in the government you personally promote an increase in the capital of the Ministry of Finance owned by THERMAL-F, a.s. by 300 million. CZK from the state budget. These days, there is a report in the media on planned construction modifications. At the same time, the Ministry of Culture is in charge of the hotel's declaration of cultural heritage. Dear Minister. As part of my interpelation, I have a simple question for you, which is asked by every citizen of Karlovy Vary. What will be the fate of the Thermal Hotel? What is the Ministry of Finance's strategic intention? [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-005-289.u33	Thank you, too. Mrs Věra Kovářová will perform next with her intervention. He will also intersect the absent finance minister. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-005-289.u34	Dear Minister. At the beginning of this parliamentary term, we approved a subsidy programme to expand the capacity of primary schools around large cities, i.e. in areas affected by the so-called suburbanisation. At that time, it was to be a transitional tool to solve the burning problem faced by cities and municipalities in which infrastructure was far from sufficient to meet requirements. Even after three years of operation of the program, which has proved its purpose, all the legitimate requirements are not satisfied according to my information. Minister, I must ask. Are you planning on extending the existence of this program? And do you, if necessary, consider strengthening the resources that will be spent this year under this subsidy programme? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-005-289.u35	Thank you, too, Madame. Interpelation shall be answered in writing within 30 days. Mr. Ludvík Hovorka will now speak with his intervention. He will interpel the Minister of Health Miloslav Ludvík, Mr. Petr Bendl will prepare. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-005-289.u36	Thank you for the floor. Dear Vice-President, Mr Minister. This week, the House passed the first reading of an amendment to the law, or rather a law on university hospitals. But I want to ask. Why are hospitals not financially stabilized before changing the legal form of faculty hospitals? [[15.10 hours]] Specifically, I have two hospitals to become universities, namely St. Anne's University Hospital and the Royal Vinohrady Faculty Hospital. I want to ask you to tell me how the Ministry will stabilize St. Anne's University Hospital and finance her loan from the RCRC project. How will the sustainability and commitments of this project be resolved? In the current legal state, what prevents the merger of St. Anne's University Hospital and the Center for Cardiovascular and Transplant Surgery, which was separated from St. Anne's Hospital in the 1990s? Why didn't the Ministry of Health increase the basic rate for St. Anne's University Hospital between 2014 and 2017, so that its financing would be balanced? How did the Ministry of Health evaluate due diligence from the company BDO entered in the Faculty Hospital of Royal Vinohrady 2015? And what corrective measures have the Ministry of Health taken on the basis of this audit? Why has the University Hospital of Royal Vinohrady repeatedly had a negative result for several years? In this year minus CZK 100 million, before that basically distorting the economic result, taking funds out of the hospital. [[Attention on time.]] Minister, you promised me that audit. I haven't received it yet, so I don't have more detailed information, but I believe you will deliver it to me and we will be able to deal with this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-005-289.u37	Thank you. Mr. Petr Bendl, Mr. Václav Horáček, will be ready with his intervention on the Minister of Transport. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-005-289.u38	Dear Minister - I have to say this because we do not say this very often - the traffic density is growing year after year, the need for transport investment too, and not that it is not invested, rather it is not invested, but if something is already happening, which sometimes happens, we often encounter problems that we would not have to. [[Only two ministers are present in the hall]] Now in April, because I regularly drive to Prague on the D6 motorway or if you want the Karlovy Vary road, at the time of the traffic peak, when people drive most to and from work, there is an installation of horizontal traffic signs. That's something that totally pisses you off when you're standing there in two three-mile fronts to find out that someone's going there and squirting the line. Either he could have done it two hours later, or he could have done it tonight, or just at a different time than when everyone goes to work or from work. There was also a switch to D6. But I think it was everywhere else, made at 50 meters, but closed one lane of one and a half kilometers, which complicates people's lives, everyone goes down to villages, etc. etc. My question is simple: Why aren't you able to ensure that such work is done outside of traffic?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-005-289.u39	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The Minister of Transport will now speak to Dan Ťok, to whom I hereby give the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-005-289.u40	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I will say something here that Mr Bendl, who interpels through Mr President, certainly knows because he has worked in the Ministry and I am sure that he has dealt with these matters as I have dealt with them. In the case of road work in traffic peaks, I would like to state that construction works which require a road closure which can be carried out in accordance with the authorisation of the relevant road administration. Before the decision is taken, he always examines whether the required closure is limited to the shortest possible time, whether it will be properly marked, and also the impact on public interest, which means whether it can be done at a time when it will least bother the driver and least delay anyone. This is also an interest in general use of roads, where possible in a smooth manner. The closure itself represents its limitations and may have an impact on the flow of road traffic. Therefore, the Road Administration should monitor the transport importance of closed traffic and the potential risk of congestion, or the certainty of congestion, and take them into account when deciding on the closure and, where appropriate, the regulations of the routes. For example, the Ministry of Transport and the Directorate of Roads and Motorways of the Czech Republic follow the intensity of traffic in matters of motorway closures and tries to term closure, respectively. to determine the implementation of the work so that they do not interfere with traffic peaks, whether during the day or week. The risk of traffic congestion is always monitored by the time and direction of travel in the closed section of the motorway. The Directorate of Roads and Motorways of the Czech Republic in this respect follows its operating directive 8/14, an estimate of the formation and development of the columns at work in the directionally divided roads, so that they do not interfere with times for which the risk or certainty of transport columns is identified. I would just add that, of course, I am not always entirely satisfied with how these work is done. I often found that they were used to doing some things in a way that was longer. I would like to say here that, for example, on the D1 motorway in modernization, when we change the marking, when we have to have an exception from not having two lanes in every direction, but only one, so we've moved this time, so we start at eight o'clock on Friday and we're able to do it over the weekend. We're even having fun now that we'd be doing those two sections in the 56-hour section. It's been done in seven days lately. So I'm sure we're dealing with this matter. And as far as the D6 motorway is concerned, the situations you described, I'm going to check if they were being followed in accordance with the directive so that we can fix these things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-005-289.u41	Thank you, Minister. The Member is interested in an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-005-289.u42	Humanly, Minister, it doesn't work. Your administrative transport office just doesn't work. They know that it's all clogged around the airport, that these people are going around, and they're either going down to Karlovy Vary, or they're going to Plzeňska. It's generally known, there's really no need to find out. And the fact that in the morning between 8:00 and 9:00, or 7:00 and 9:00, they just do line traffic signs, or horizontal traffic signs, that's also obvious. They just don't work. They don't really care. So if it's worth putting it in their supply terms? You're only gonna do it then and then without anyone finding out if the congestion is there, or if the traffic is there, or if it isn't. It's as simple as that. That's why I'm asking you this. Try ordering them to respect it, not the XY directive, because it just doesn't work in practice.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-005-289.u43	Thank you for keeping time. The Minister will respond. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-005-289.u44	Mr President, Members, you know, it's really nice, and I'm sure you've been there while you were in office. Things work better, they work less. I think it's getting very much better. And, yes, it is your duty to criticize from the bench that we are doing things wrong. And I'll take it and we'll try to improve. On the other hand, you need to be at least a little objective. There are things that work better, and they need to be appreciated. And if I take it, like you said in the first part that he wouldn't stop by... Now you're a little conflicting. We build and harass the driver by standing in the motorcades, and then they don't stop. Well, then you have to tell yourself what the truth is. I'm sure he'll come by. They're coming and they're starting to build the big buildings. And if you say no, I think everyday practice on the road will show you that it's not like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-005-289.u45	Thank you, Minister. Mr Václav Horáček will now speak with his intervention and will interpel the Minister for Regional Development Karla Šlechtová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-005-289.u46	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Madam absent Minister, I would like to know and know your specific plans with the State Regional Development Fund, which you are planning to set up and through which you want to finance housing support in the Czech Republic. First of all, I wonder what the reasons for creating such a fund are, what the basis is, and, of course, the analysis. Furthermore, I would like to know whether you are planning to transfer only existing assets of the State Housing Development Fund to this fund or whether you are planning to merge other similar grants and subsidies, among other things. also from other ministries, such as the Ministry of Environment, Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs or others. If this is what you are planning, then I would like to know and know at what stage are negotiations with relevant ministries. Since I have learned about your intention through the media, I would also like to ask when you will present the project to Members and, above all, to our Gesture Committee. Let me also ask whether, according to your proposal, it would not be better to redistribute funds from various ministerial subsidies into cities and municipalities so that they can deal with them and that they make meaningful determinations on how to make the most effective use of them and under direct control of the inhabitants of cities and municipalities. I am afraid that the creation of a new unnecessary office will only entail additional costs, an increase in the administrative burden for those to whom assistance is intended, and the risk of non-transparable negotiations and hence other losses of funds. Thank you and I look forward to your written answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-005-289.u47	Thank you for the exact time range. Mrs Wernerová will now speak with her intervention and will interpel the Minister of Transport Dan Ťok. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-005-289.u48	Dear Minister, I am addressing you with an interview on the operation of the Slavkov railway. Specifically in the section Beautiful Jez - Loket. This year, 20 years have passed since the stop of its operation. Due to the unsatisfactory state of the railway superstructure, so called. long-term lockout. This was done under the great disapproval of both the municipalities and the local businesses that carried goods along the track. In 2006 the passenger was able to get about a kilometer of the section from Lokte to Lokte-suburban, where the so-called "city" was created. mini-terminal with connecting bus connections. Seven years later the operation on the line Krásný Jez- Horní Slavkov - Kounice was restored from the other side. Passenger trains are introduced in the summer season, but they are not of general importance to local citizens for the remoteness of the end stop. Logically, it offers a railway renewal of about 1.6 kilometers further to the Horní Slavkov railway station, which is located in the center of the city. However, planned economic activities in this locality require the restoration of the line Krásný Jez - Loket in the whole original length. In the mining of lithium in Kounice in Horní Slavkov, there will be 40 thousand of them in the production of coal sands. tonnes per year to pass around 80 trucks with this raw material through the city of Loket. Of course, this is an unacceptable burden for the citizens of the city. Transport for an existing currently closed railway line is the only acceptable starting point. Dear Minister, the citizens of Sokolov are interested in how this difficult transport situation will be dealt with in the future. I ask for your opinion on the beautiful Jez - Loket railway section. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-005-289.u49	Thank you, too, Madame. And I give the floor to the Minister of Transport Dan Ťok. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-005-289.u50	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, in the line section Horní Slavkov - Loket, the suburb is currently being tolerated. Without the introduction of significant investment funds, its recovery is not realistic. Passenger transport in connection with the cost of renewal of this line is not economically efficient. However, as was said, the local mining company of lithium Sanaka Industry appeared with a requirement to transport this substrate by rail. However, he has not yet told us to what extent and in what way transport should take place. Nor did he disclose the assumption of the quantity of lithium transported. The regional directorate of SŽDC in Ústí nad Labem communicates with the owner of the mine and economic efficiency for the section Kounice - Horní Slavkov as well as the planned route of transport. The expected investments in the line are up to several hundred million crowns. Any reduction in this investment would consist in the implementation of a shorter connection of the quarry to the railway line through a train track of approximately 300 metres. As part of this verification, the mining company is currently waiting for the request. In this case, the meeting of the Regional Directorate of SŽDS Ústí nad Labem with the mining company Sanaka Industry is envisaged in the next week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-005-289.u51	Thank you, Minister. Is the honourable Member interested in an additional question? He does. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-005-289.u52	Minister, I will therefore ask you in this context if you provide me with information on the results of the negotiations and on possible solutions or measures in this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-005-289.u53	Thank you, too. The Minister will no longer respond, it was not a question. Mrs Věra Kovářová will perform with the next interview. He will intersect Minister Havlíček in the case of the Czech Republic and EFSI. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-005-289.u54	Dear Minister, about a year ago, the press reported that the use of the European Fund for Strategic Investment for Projects implemented in the Czech Republic is not in any way remarkable. Or to quote one of those headlines exactly, there was talk of a miserable drawdown. And I would like to ask, Minister, whether the situation has improved after a year since then with regard to projects covered by the European Fund for Strategic Investments in the Czech Republic and whether you can document this by numbers. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-005-289.u55	Thank you, Madame. And I give the floor to the Minister of Industry and Trade present. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-005-289.u56	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, the European Fund for Strategic Investment is a major part of the Investment Plan for Europe, so called. Junckerův's package. Its purpose is to promote investment activity in Europe through financial instruments with a high involvement of private capital. The EFSI is divided into two parts: infrastructure, where large enterprises can receive direct funding from the European Investment Bank for large projects of at least EUR tens of millions. And the second part, which concerns small and medium-sized enterprises, where funding is provided from the European Investment Bank or the EIF through local financial intermediaries such as banks, funds, etc. In the Czech Republic, state financial institutions in this way provide support to small and medium-sized enterprises, in particular the Czechoslovak Guarantee and Development Bank, and commercial banks also use the products. Applicants, i.e. banks, firms or public administrations, cannot receive support directly from the EFSI must make use of funding from the European Investment Bank or the European Investment Fund. In the case of small and medium-sized enterprises, through local banks and funds. EFSI resources constitute a guarantee of 16 billion. EUR 5 billion for infrastructure projects from the European Union budget and EUR 5 billion. EUR for small and medium-sized enterprises projects through the EIB and the European Investment Fund. [[15.30 hours]] For the Czech Republic, both the EIB and the Junckerův package have the issue of the Ministry of Finance, but the MIT also deals with this issue, from a factual point of view, because it is largely about supporting business or large infrastructure projects, for example from the field of energy. However, the State can only play an informative role in the EFSI, the selection and implementation of these projects is given by direct interaction between applicants and financial institutions with the European Investment Bank and possibly the EIF. In the Czech Republic, the interest in financing is currently mainly held by banks, in the EFSI section aimed at supporting small and medium-sized enterprises. In this respect, the European Investment Fund and the European Investment Bank are very active on the Czech market and its guarantee for loans has already been obtained by the Czechoslovak Guarantee Bank, Komerční banka, Česká spořitelna, ČSOB and Equa bank. Compared to the total amount of funds provided to small and medium-sized companies in the Czech Republic, the Czech Republic has ranked sixth place, which is also the best location among the new Member States of the European Union. When it comes to financing infrastructure projects, interest in the Czech Republic is one of the lowest in the European Union. The only known infrastructure project funded in the Czech Republic from EFSI is the project Modernization of the ČEPS transmission system. This company falls under the Ministry of Industry and Trade and obtained a loan of 111 million at the beginning of 2017. EUR. The Ministry of Industry and Trade directly ensured the implementation of two projects within the framework of EFSI. The first concerns the agreement between the Czech Moravian Guarantee and Development Bank and the European Investment Fund under the National Programme Guarantee for SMEs. The agreement has allowed guaranteed loans of a total amount of 4,4 billion to be drawn up in the first part to date. CZK 1,400 for small and medium-sized enterprises. As regards the EFSI resources that are used for other activities, I would like to mention here the programme to support the risk capital of our Operational Programme Enterprise and Innovation for Competitiveness. As part of the agreement with the European Investment Fund of January this year on the creation of the so-called Fund Fund, the Ministry obtained a co-investment from the European Investment Fund of 10 million. The Ministry will provide EUR 40 million from the operational programme. EUR. Support in the form of risk capital investment will be directed towards Czech startups in particular. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-005-289.u57	Thank you, Minister. I ask the honourable Member if he is interested in an additional question. Mine, you may, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-005-289.u58	Thank you for your answer, Minister. I would use the supplementary question to ask if everything is okay with regard to the call for the expansion of high-speed Internet. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-005-289.u59	Thank you. I give my word to the Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-005-289.u60	Madam Members, I will respond to Mrs Kovářová's supplementary question on the call for high-speed Internet. I have already mentioned this about 14 days ago at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies, however, to inform the lady of your current situation. On 31 March, this challenge was launched with the fact that we met a sector that deals with the high-speed Internet sector in the Czech Republic and decided to adapt one part of the evaluation model under this call so that more successful projects could be within the framework of the individual so-called white sites that are not yet covered by the high-speed Internet. The procedure for per rollam voting was carried out within the monitoring committee, which approved this adjustment by a relatively clear majority and was also supported by individual business associations, including the Confederation of Industry and Transport and the Chamber of Commerce. It is therefore open on 26 April to receive applications and we believe that companies will report to this program as soon as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-005-289.u61	Thank you, Minister. Next, Mr. Michal Kučera will be interviewed by the Minister of Transport on the situation on the D8 motorway. Mr. Ludvík Hovorka will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-005-289.u62	Hello again. Dear Minister, let me ask you a few questions about the current state of D8. I have already interviewed the Prime Minister on this matter today, but I will use this option and I would like to ask you about the current situation with the forensic audit, which means whether it has already been commissioned and when it will be presented to the House. Secondly, I would like to ask what is the current situation with regard to the change in the hydro-ecological conditions of the municipalities concerned, which are at risk of changing the conditions of groundwater, whether there is some monitoring going on and, above all, whether any conclusions have already been drawn towards the particular municipalities. Third, a pretty clear question. When will the D8 motorway be operational in both directions?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-005-289.u63	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The word is given by the Minister of Transport Daň Ťok.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-005-289.u64	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I would like to respond to all three questions. First question for a forensic audit - it was entered. The tender will now be issued, documentation will be prepared, which will be conditional and will be addressed to selected candidates. Of course, anyone can sign up for it, but we specifically approached a large four auditors. So, after processing this audit, as given by the government or Prime Minister, it will certainly be handed over to the Chamber of Deputies at the appropriate time. As regards the monitoring of water and the municipalities concerned, there is information that all the comments of the municipalities have been resolved. I myself was involved in helping the village of Prackovice, which had a problem with its sewage treatment plant, which, of course, was not caused primarily by the construction of D8, however, we helped in the good relations of the mayor and the subsidy she should be given to eliminate the defects that the sewerage and even the cleaning plant has is agreed. As far as the D8 motorway is concerned, I would like to quote it here, it's operational. I myself witnessed when I was at the meeting with the mayors that they quite highly praised that traffic had fallen through their villages, whether along the Elbe or the other side, however one right-hand track of this highway in the section between kilometers 55.4 and 58.2 in the area of Prackovická estacade is still closed. In the area of hopper Prackovická stacade, remedial work is still underway, whose responses are monitored, even in the support of the hopper under the right treadmill. At present, concreteling of the anchor wreath and anchoring in the already built static element is carried out. These work must be carried out under climate-appropriate conditions, and their implementation must also be adapted to a geologically complex basis. Therefore, the work was not completed within the expected deadline. The board of experts recommends that the Prackovická estacade bridge building keep operation temporarily on the left belt of the motorway even in the following period. We have long-term statistics that even though there is a lane of highways, there has been no congestion for this reason, and there are no restrictions and traffic in this area is smooth, which is why I don't want to pressure anyone today. The whole matter is dealt with at least once a week by the Monitoring Council, which is composed of experts and the moment this Monitoring Council tells me that there is no problem with the road or highway and that they put their hand in the fire for it, I will run it the next day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-005-289.u65	Thank you, Minister. The Member is interested in supplementing it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-005-289.u66	Thank you for the answer, I am satisfied with it, not with the situation, but with the answer, however, I would like to ask as an additional question, and that is whether all the extraordinary costs associated with the bailout of the slide and, of course, with the work on the motorway, respectively, have already been calculated. what are still the expected costs of making the motorway fully operational for the future. It's enough in writing, too, if you don't know.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-005-289.u67	You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-005-289.u68	Just very briefly. Mr President, the cost of removing this slide is quantified, which we can provide, and I will give it to you in writing. Of course, there is an assumption that the additional costs, they are actually within the scope of multi-work and should not exceed the limit price. And most importantly, the monitoring will continue, it will continue, and we want to make sure that the highway is okay and that we know what's going on and we can respond if there's a problem.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-005-289.u69	Thank you. Next, Mr. Ludvík Hovorka will speak to the Minister of Health. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-005-289.u70	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Minister, from 1. 1. 2018 is to run mandatory electronic recipe for all doctors and for all medical devices. I would like to ask what the current recipe brings to doctors, patients and pharmacies, not what it will bring in the future. Second, what will the Ministry of Health do if doctors are not from 1. 1. 2018 exhibit electronic recipes. Will the Ministry of Medicine sanction? What will the Ministry of Health do if 15 to 20 percent of doctors from 1. 1. 2018 due to the mandatory presentation of recipes will be over? Fourth, what will you do when you promised doctors to finance the issue of an electronic recipe with an amount of CZK 1.70 per item per recipe, when under the law of issuing the recipe there is no health performance, i.e. that it cannot be covered by the Health Care Fund and health insurance, i.e. that this promised financial motivation is not essentially covered by resources. Fifth, why don't doctors want a mandatory electronic prescription? I believe that if the product is good, it may not be mandatory, as is the case in other countries, and that there is no need to throw money out of health insurance for any motivation of doctors. Sixth, will you take the responsibility of the specific persons responsible for throwing out public funds for a dysfunctional system? I suspect that some 200 to 250 million crowns have been invested so far. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-005-289.u71	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Your interview will be answered in writing. I will now ask Mr Petr Bendl to speak with his intervention. He will intersect the present Minister of Transport. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-005-289.u72	I'm gonna go back to what was here a little while ago. You are not building, Minister, you have 125 billion allocated to the Czech Republic for the period 2014 to 2020 and we are in the middle of the financial period and you invested one billion. One billion, I got it in black and white from your boss at the Treasury, from European money. And I wasn't interested in classical constructions, I was talking about horizontal traffic signs, which can be done at a different time than in traffic peaks. You can't convince me that's not true. But my question about billboards is, since you weren't on the Road Traffic Act yesterday, and you didn't have the opportunity to respond to my amendment, and I'm worried if you're gonna be at the House meeting tomorrow, I want to ask you today. Why don't you allow municipalities to have a greater impact on the installation of advertising equipment? I know a lot of municipalities that reject the adverts, and they're just not able to influence the adverts not to be there, because your traffic authorities approve them, and the way they work, that's what I've documented here on the traffic horizontal marking. Why do you want to fix the current situation and in case you're not satisfied with it, why didn't you do anything to change it? You have not put forward any proposal that would change the situation, and you are admitting it yourself, and I can prove it by documents from the Ministry of Transport during your time of action, that the current situation is legally complex, legislatively unclear, that it is not entirely obvious what is and is not built up territory, and that those who apply for permission in the given situation can, if they do not mean it very well with the law, so they can abuse it and use it, which is also happening, and the situation that concerns billboards looks that way in the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-005-289.u73	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for keeping up the good time. The word is from the Minister of Transport Dan Ťok.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-005-289.u74	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I confess that I do not fully understand the question, because I am not carrying out any additional matter on this matter other than what has already been approved, and what is only to come legally into effective use. This means, firstly, that I was not here yesterday, this is not a bill from the Ministry of Transport workshop, and I did not really want to comment on the amendment, because I do not essentially associate the amendment with billboards. The amendment changes the definition of a built-up territory, which is only from a sign to a sign, or a municipality that defines the scope of the municipality, and which in its own way brings more uncertainty than the existing definition of the municipality. I agree that the definition of the community that is now in the law deserves clarification, but it is not anything dramatic, as described here. From my point of view, I simply respect that every Member has the opportunity to give his amendment. I am merely saying that this amendment will bring more chaos than the current amendment, enabling the municipality, in essence, to shift the sign to increase the authority's competence over the territory that it would probably not have properly fallen to it, but that is perhaps a technical debate on how to proceed. I'll get back to that first note. If you use an analysis from an existing monitoring system that is not up to date, yes, you can operate with the numbers you operated on. I would like to say that we really exhausted today and paid the suppliers almost one-quarter of the allocated funds to the OPD2, so it might be nice if the relevant arguments were used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-005-289.u75	Thank you, Minister. I wonder if he is interested in supplementing the Member? You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-005-289.u76	I'm shocked, Minister, because you're mediating and saying how awful it is. You're saying, to the amendment, that there might actually be a shift in the sign. It's like you think the village, the mayor or mayor would say, "Please, we'd still need that billboard 10 meters away. Is he gonna move it? If someone's playing at 50 kilometers in the village? That would break the law pretty hard, I've never heard that before. That's not an argument. [[15.50 hours]] What I'm saying is that we have two licensing systems today, and I only want one. One that will be clear to everyone. And I note that if the building authorities allow the billboard, the advertising equipment, then, of course, in the vast majority of cases, the construction authorities call on the transport office and the Police of the Czech Republic to comment on this. And very seriously, and I can also prove that, he always takes the opinion of the police. So that's why the Union of Towns and Villages supports it, which is why it's not like we're gonna go to some billboard lobby.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-005-289.u77	Thank you. And the Minister is interested in a reaction? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-005-289.u78	Mr Vice-President, I would just like to correct what has been said here. First, I spoke about removing billboards on first-class roads and highways, and there I am absolutely in favour of them disappearing. When it comes to authorising billboards that are in the municipalities, they're at the council and, as you said, the construction offices, it's clear there. The only point to your amendment, through Mr President, was that I really do not feel that this is a happy solution. And I don't associate it with billboards anymore, because the definition of the protection zone and other things isn't just a matter of road administration or just billboards, but basically all the buildings around the roads. And I think it would deserve a little more thoughtful than this amendment, which, in my opinion, also borders on the sticker, but I don't want to talk about that here. I'm just gonna repeat what I said. There's just an opinion, the right to deal with it in this way, and I just answered the press question, what I'm saying. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-005-289.u79	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Ludvík Hovorka, Mr. Ludvík Hovork, will be the next to speak to the Minister of Health Miloslav Ludvík. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-005-289.u80	Thank you for the floor. Dear Vice-President, Mr Minister. Since 2013, the requirements for medical devices and their certification and notification process have been significantly tightened. At the same time, the costs of producers have increased significantly and the number of notified persons making certification of these products has decreased from five to two. This extended the certification process and the placing on the market of new products. Due to the lack of capacity of notified persons, Czech manufacturers must contact foreign certified persons whose services are significantly more expensive and in the result they are expensive Czech medical devices. One reason is the requirements for ever newer laboratory equipment and new premises and requirements for the provision of expert opinions by specialists. It is a problem in part of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, the Institute for Standardisation and also the Ministry of Health. The possibility of how the Ministry of Health can help is, for example, to establish the obligation of state-established academic research organisations to cooperate in the process of conformity assessment with manufacturers and notified persons for payment in the framework of standard economic business activities, for example by establishing expert clinical workplaces by the Ministry of Health. Or to support from public sources the creation and construction of laboratory and knowledge-based infrastructure that would provide, in cooperation with academic and research organisations, the necessary professional services for manufacturers and notified persons, at the same time focusing on research, development and innovation of the procedure to verify clinical methods and medical devices. This would lead to a reduction in the cost of services still available only abroad, thereby also supporting exports outside EU markets. Minister, please consider helping manufacturers and notified persons to... [[Time limit alert.]] In order to keep the costs of medical devices in the Czech Republic in order to keep up with Czech manufacturers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-005-289.u81	Thank you. Your interview will be answered in writing within 30 days. And now the best in the end. Mrs Věra Kovářová will interpel Mr Jan Chvojka on the rash preparation of government legislation. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-005-289.u82	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Minister, I recently read the following on the Internet. Hunting balls, fire competitions or football matches. On these occasions interest associations and sports clubs sell tickets, souvenirs or snacks for cash and thus make extra money on their otherwise non-profit activities. The Treasury could now relieve them of the EET. " On Thursday at the EET conference, " says the Ministry's representatives, "they will deal with the problem. We will discuss the limit and specify the methodology to EET in a short time," says Alena Šilerová, Deputy Minister of Finance for Taxation. The amendment of the law will not be necessary, because the financial administration itself can set the limit by its decision. Although, of course, I support the relief of associations from these absurd obligations, I cannot condone the remark that relates to the quality and stability of the standard formation, which so greatly affects citizens and businesses. Although the Ministry of Finance does not want to change the law, it is merely a methodology, but it is practically as important from the public's point of view as the law itself. Until recently, the Ministry of Finance claimed that the criteria that had been modified in the methodology were wonderful and made sense. Now it's the Ministry, and I'm glad it doesn't. But it tells a lot about how much care these important methodological materials are being prepared with. And that's where I'm going to ask my question. Minister, can you, as Minister for Legislation, contribute to the creation of methodological materials in a more transparent, inclusive way? Given their fundamental impact on citizens and entrepreneurs, I think it makes sense. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-005-289.u83	Thank you, Madame. And I am of the opinion that for today's meeting, we have closed the oral intercession hearing. I'm interrupting the House meeting until Friday 28 tomorrow. 4. when we will continue point 232 at 9.00 in the third reading of the Funeral Act. Thank you all for attending and have a good afternoon and evening.
