ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 56th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome to all of you. The Organizing Committee of the Chamber of Deputies set up a proposal for a 56th meeting on Thursday 23 March 2017 and the invitation was sent to you on Friday 24 March t. r. I beg you all to sign up with your ID cards and at the same time tell me who's asking to issue a replacement card. In the meantime, I would like to inform you that I am voting with card number 70, with card number 71, President Stanjura and card number 73, Mr Kučera. Dear colleagues, as you all know, the President of the Republic has appointed Mr. Jiří Havlíček as Minister of Industry and Trade today, 4 April. Allow me to welcome a new member of the government among us and wish him every success in his work. [[Let's hear it.]] We would now proceed to the designation of the two verifiers of this meeting. I propose to Mrs Černochová and Mr Mihola. I'm asking who else has a suggestion. If there are no other proposals, we will vote. I am opening the vote and asking who agrees with these verifiers. Who's against it? It's vote number one. It's registered 112, for 92, against 1. The motion was accepted. - Mrs Kailová has card number 72. - I am therefore of the opinion that we have designated the verifiers for this meeting Mrs Černochová and Mr Mihola. I'd like to inform you that if you'll excuse your absence... Mrs Hubáčková card number 74. The following Members of the Government have asked to apologise for their failure to attend: Mr Adámek - foreign travel, Vice-President Bartošek - health reasons, Mrs Bohdalová within 15 hours for work reasons, Mr Brázdil - health reasons, Mr Čihák - health reasons, Mr Číp - health reasons, Mr Fiala - family reasons, Mr Grospič - foreign travel, Mr Janulík without reason, Mr Lobkowicz - foreign trip, Mr Němcová without reason, Mr Nykl - medical reasons, Mr Ondráček - personal reasons, Mr Ploc - working reasons, Mr Pojezný until 16.00 - personal reasons, Mr Snopek - foreign trip, Mr Šarapatka - foreign trip, Mr Šidlo - personal reasons, Mr Urban without reason, Member Váhalová - foreign road, Member Volný - health reasons, Mr Zemánek - no reason. The Prime Minister apologizes from the members of the government from 16.00 - working reasons, Vice-President Bělobrádek from 17.45 - working reasons, Minister Jurečka - foreign travel, Minister Marksová - foreign travel, Minister Pelikán - working reasons, Minister Stropnickýý between 16 and 18.00 - working reasons, Minister Zaorálek - working reasons. So many apologies. [[Noise in the hall.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I beg you... Mrs Wernerová card number 75. I'm begging you to calm down. Please sit in the bench. I'm going to ask my colleague Filip to take over the meeting for me for a moment, and I'm going to take my word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-000-000.u2	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please listen calmly to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-000-000.u3	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to perform a little untraditionally right at the beginning of our meeting and to draw your attention to a person who certainly deserves it. On the occasion of the incredible jubilee of life, I would like to congratulate the chamber stenographer Dr. Jiří Novák on his 90th birthday. [[The birthday boy rises, as well as all present in the hall, followed by a long round of applause.]] Dear colleagues, although this is unbelievable, the writing of speeches in Parliament has been devoted since 1952. Right from the next day, he passed the chamber exam in shorthand. He had the honour of stenographing, starting with Antonín Zápotocký, all Czechoslovak and Czech presidents, as well as countless ministers, Members, and does so today. Thanks to his work, thousands of pages of speeches by politicians are recorded for history. Perhaps this environment is also intended for the family, because his grandfather from his mother's side, František Staněk, was a longtime MP and, finally, the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the National Assembly. Thanks to knowledge of history, philosophy, economics, foreign languages as well as pure character and intelligent humor, this noble master is a role model not only for his colleagues but also for high school students whose teachings he has spent his entire life enthusiastically. And whatever stenographers are like our dumb witnesses, who must see, hear and record everything, but do not show themselves, I considered it right to make an exception and introduce one to you. And because, as he himself says, he likes the speakers brief and factual, I would like to end this brief performance - and, Doctor, once again, wish you all the best, good health and good life. And let me give you a little present.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-000-000.u4	Thank you to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, thank you to our precious colleague and I am handing over the proceedings of the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-000-000.u5	Thank you, too. We'll proceed to the 56th meeting. First of all, I would like to inform you about the proposals on which today's grémium has been agreed. The Grémium proposes to include new points on the 56th meeting, it is a government proposal to give prior consent to the proposal for a Council decision setting out a multiannual framework for the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights for the period 2018 to 2022, the House press 1076-E, and the second point - the final report of the Chamber of Deputies' Committee of Investigation for the Examination of Major Errors, which occurred during the preparation and implementation of the D47 construction. We also propose to include points 217, which is the Treaty with New Zealand, and 229, the Treaty with Cuba, on Thursday, April 6, following the already fixed points 222, 223 and 224. These were originally fixed on Thursday 13. 4. And as the sixth point, point 221, which is the CETA agreement with Canada. At 12 April at 6 pm to include paragraph 285, which is the Prime Minister's information on the withdrawal of Great Britain from the European Union. And that's it for me. These are the changes that matched the House's grémium. Now, of course, those who want to be on the agenda will be given the floor. I have Mr Fiedler here first, but, of course, if there are priority rights, they have priority. The first report was made by Mr. Černoch. Deal? He's downloading. In that case, the priority right of the chairman of the KDU-ČSL club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-000-000.u6	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President. I would like to request a firm inclusion of the following two points. First, a parliamentary proposal by colleagues Kaňkovský and others to issue a law amending Act No. 329/2011 Coll., on the provision of benefits to persons with disabilities and on the amendment of related laws, as amended, is the House Press 935 and paragraph 28. It would be on Wednesday 5. 4:30 p.m. at 4:30 p.m. Wednesday 5. 4:30 p.m. - That's the first request. Second, this is paragraph 73, which is a government bill amending Act No. 289/1995 Coll., on forests and on amendment and addition of certain laws, forest law, as amended, it is the House press 1064. It would be on Wednesday 12. 4. after the veterinary law, which is actually planned as the first point of that afternoon. So after veterinary law 12. 4th Wednesday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-000-000.u7	12. 4. after the veterinary law. Vice-President Filip with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-000-000.u8	Thank you. Mr President, Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to put forward three points and to justify this matter briefly. This is the proposal to include the first three points for tomorrow's afternoon meeting in order not to disturb the third reading, point 126, print 738, which is the proposal of the KSČM club to address property restitutions to churches, point 132, print 781, which is the draft law on Prague Castle, and point 201, print 842, which is the proposal of the South Bohemia Region for taxation of church restitutions. I'll give you a brief reason for this assignment. I was confronted with this fact. The State Land Office, which is represented by the Office for the Representation of Property Rights of the State, has declared the legal representation of the State Authority and has hired a private attorney to represent disputes with the Cistercian Abbey in Higher Brod. This means that one state office, which we pay from our taxes, from taxpayers' money in the Czech Republic, has declared a contract to another state office, which has been set up by this Chamber of Deputies to ensure the state's property rights, and will take these funds that would remain with another state organization into private hands. I'm asking why that is, why the State Land Office did such an operation. I'll answer you. Because the Cistercian Abbey doesn't respect the so-called law. The property settlement of the churches and the extradition of the property that has been financially valued and for which the financial compensation has been paid. The Cistercian Abbey in Upper Brod lost a number of disputes. I informed you about at least two of them - when they sued a physical person, an 80-year-old lady who owned a family house for more than ten years, who had her ex-husband built, he also sued a family from Holland, who bought the same house at Lipno nad Vltavou. And the fact that they do not respect this law is evident because the Office for Property Rights of the State has already won several disputes with the Cistercian Abbey in Higher Brod and has gone all the way to the Constitutional Court, where there is a finding of the Constitutional Court of the Czech Republic by which the right to such requested property is denied. The same dispute over another property held at the District Court in Český Krumlov was dismissed by the Court of First Instance and the Cistercian Abbey appealed against this ruling by the Court of First Instance. And what a surprise it was to the lawyer of the Office for the Representation of Property Rights of the State, who represents the State Land Office when he learned only at the hearing before the Regional Court in České Budějovice, that the State Land Office had declared the full power of the Office for the Representation of Property Rights of the State, on 31 March, when the State Land Office was already a lawyer, whom the State Land Office is to hire instead of this State Office. [[hired]] And when he turned back that his power of attorney still exists, the State Land Office stepped forward asking for a recess to be represented by someone else. I ask what is the reason for the Minister of Agriculture to exchange the legal representation of the State Land Office, so that instead of the state office, which is called upon to do so and designated by law of the Czech Republic, he entrusts this legal representation to a private lawyer, when he has to go to the State Land Office to respect the current legal situation, i.e. land not issued has been valued and paid to this Cistercian Abbey, why something such as the concealment of this law and the extradition of other land which does not belong to the Abbey should take place. [[14.20 hours]] I remind you that the Abbey claimed that it was forced for its abbot to be based in Linz. I do not know, however, what happened since 1991, when the law of the former Federal Assembly was restored, which stated what property the Cistercians in Higher Brod were returning, what prevented them from moving from the Abbot from Linz to the Higher Brod. Probably nothing, but it's probably not the subject of this dispute. The object of the dispute is, therefore, that the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic discuss here at plenary proposals relating to this property, so that it does not continue to be arbitraryly challenged by the proposal, that is, the division between the assets in the financial compensation, and the one that was issued in physical form, that is, forests, ponds, fields, etc. In this respect, I therefore believe that the Minister of Agriculture has abused his office and has deliberately denounced the contract of legal representation to another state authority which this Chamber of Deputies has set up for the state's legal representation. This will also be the subject of further negotiations, because in this respect, when discussing the agenda of the meeting, I only want these proposals, which lie here for more than two years, to be discussed and to prevent them from being legally issued. I believe that this approach will convince you that, finally, after two years, there is a need to discuss the proposals relating to this unfortunate law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-000-000.u9	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Mr Vondráček, Vice-President, will perform the next priority.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-000-000.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I have a positive performance. Since we have 292 proposed points according to the invitation to this meeting, I am proposing that under § 86 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, I take back the House's Press 272, which is the amendment to Act No. 379/2005 Coll., on measures to protect against damage caused by tobacco products, alcohol and other addictive substances and on changes to related laws. We have already decided to ban smoking in restaurants in another press after a very fruitful discussion, and this law seems to be redundant, so at the same time I propose that it be decided that this item is excluded from the agenda, thereby reducing the number of points to 291, which is certainly a significant shift. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-000-000.u11	I am convinced that if you have taken back this press, we do not have to vote on its elimination. He was just pulled out. With priority rights, Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-000-000.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, fellow Members, I have to turn against this pack of lies, so I must call it, which was heard here a moment ago from the mouth of the President of the KSČM. On the one hand, he wrongly assaulted the Minister of Agriculture here and rubbed himself against the Vyšebrod Cistercians who could not return to their monastery because the Communists devastated the monastery in such a way that it is still very difficult to awaken from this deep wound. That's what I'd call chucpe!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-000-000.u13	With priority rights, Vice-President Filip.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-000-000.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm sorry I had to take advantage of my priority rights. I ask the Minister of Culture not to lie to Members of the Chamber of Deputies or citizens of the Czech Republic! The Cistercian Abbey is known that on September 30, 1938, one police officer died and two were badly injured. In 1945 to 1947, a number of war criminals were hiding, and so they were rightfully expropriated. Under the former regime, if you want to hear it, there was a post museum in this abbey, the state repaired it and maintained it. The monastery was really in very good shape. In what he is now, let this be examined by authorities other than the authorities of the state, because the Federal Assembly passed it on by enumeration law. I demand that this demagogy be abandoned by the Minister of Culture!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-000-000.u15	Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-000-000.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, colleagues, I ask the President of the Communist Party to put an end to his lying arguments. The monastery was closed by German Nazis during World War II precisely because there was a center of anti-Nazi resistance. Adolf Hitler wanted to make this monastery even a gallery of stolen paintings! That's why the Nazis closed this monastery. And the Communists shut it down again! So it's really very curious, and it needs to be true to these false arguments here too. And I, like the President, come from South Bohemia, so we know these locations well. Please and I ask that these false arguments cease to be heard here! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-000-000.u17	Chairman Kováčik.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-000-000.u18	Mr President, gentlemen and gentlemen, I would ask for peace. Relaxing the situation in that each Member and each Member has the right to propose a change to the programme. The President of the KSČM and Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Filip have proposed items that have been employed by the Chamber of Deputies for many months and maybe many years, truth, someone pleasantly, someone less pleasantly, someone less beneficial, someone less beneficial, someone who would like to see it discussed, someone who would like to not see it at all, and that is the issue. And I'm not here to interpret from this place who had it in the electoral agenda for this election period, and so far nothing, the church restitutions have been discussed, that, and we just want this topic to be discussed before the end of this parliamentary term, as many of us have promised in the electoral programme that we will somehow deal with this topic here. Everything else is just a clue that may be the purpose of the negotiation to postpone or disable. So I'm reading Minister Herman's reaction. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-000-000.u19	If there are no other applications with priority rights, then please Mr Fiedler and Mrs Černochová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-000-000.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I don't have a priority right, but I can only take one sentence to the last one. House printing 144 was enough to discuss - discuss! - and we could have forgiven this intermezzo. I am speaking with a proposal for a solid inclusion of a point, it is the House press 499, the Senate proposal for an amendment to the Enforcement Order, the territoriality of the executors. I have been here on this subject several times on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. I've had a couple of interviews. And what's happening lately, what's going on is just confirming me that the parties to the coalition should really finally live up to their coalition commitment, which they have in the government's programming statement, where the principles of territoriality are literally stated, the point that they have in the government's action programme, I have also mentioned here, where the government has adopted an action programme in recent months, where one of those points is the solution to this topic. However, as I have also mentioned here, the government itself proposes or submits that it would like to submit the amendment to the Chamber of Deputies by July 2017. Let us repeat that we all know very well that the amendment submitted in July 2017 will fall so called. under the table. [[There's a lot of noise in the room. Members are having fun and don't listen.]] This Chamber of Deputies will not discuss it. And to claim that the government wants to address this issue, a very delicate issue... I would ask for a little silence, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-000-000.u21	Colleagues and colleagues, I ask for peace! Please, the crowds that are discussing to move into the foyer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-000-000.u22	The government that has promised to address this and therefore wants to present an amendment in July 2017, do not be angry with me, colleagues from the government coalition, that is a mockery to citizens, mocking this Chamber of Deputies that we will be dealing with something in July 2017, three four months before the elections. We know that very well. The Senate proposal, House Press 499, was approved in the Senate on 13 May 2015 and delivered to the Chamber of Deputies on 29 May 2015. So it will soon be two years since this House press is here, and it is very similar to what President Kováčik said about other amendments relating to church restitutions. It is very similar, including that promise, a false promise, where there is clearly no will of the government coalition to address this issue. I know, although the letter did not arrive to me because, as an unattached Member, I am somewhat discriminated against, and despite the urgency and comments of the House's leadership, the non-inclusion of Members is simply not being circulated by all documents and information, but I know that the presidents of the various club groups have received a letter from the executor chamber, where the executors themselves are demanding that we finally discuss the press and begin to address the problem of an incredible accumulation of executions, their cumulation on individual persons, the growth of their volume, or the number of executions that cannot be enforced. Several seminars took place on this issue in the Chamber of Deputies. Previously, I think they were organized by the Constitutional Legal Committee, or I don't know exactly if they were a colleague of Černoch. I held two 22. 9. 2016 and 22. 2. this year and then a colleague Válková held the last seminar on this topic recently. Let me remind myself again and again here that the law adopted by the Slovak National Council, which deals with this issue, the Slovak National Council has adopted quite simply, quickly, without major awkwardness, today in Slovakia, I think it is starting to apply just from this month of April, when it is introduced gradually in life. The information was very interesting to me - I am stressing or admitting that I do not have it verified - however, information such that the Slovak version was actually based on the experience or proposals that have been processed here in the Czech Republic and which we are still unable to bring to life, whereas the Slovak National Council did it very quickly. Citizens also look to me with comments that perhaps in Poland, the Republic of Poland, they are also considering the increasing number of excesses of various executors, let us not throw them all in one bag to go back to the system of state executors. I won't comment. I think that the first step forward, or the first step that can be resolved and corrected, is the introduction of territoriality. [[There's still a lot of noise in the room.]] As you have also heard here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, I have intersected Minister Pelikán, and in reply there was interesting information for me that one executive office repeatedly violated the rules on how to execute executions and auctions of real estate. Prime Minister, I don't see him at the moment... [[The President points out that the Prime Minister is here.]] The Prime Minister is here. Thank you, Prime Minister. Today I read your response to my interpelations, which were in your absence. Thank you for the answers. However, I cannot agree with what has been said. It is stated here, through the President, Prime Minister, that, if errors are detected, the controls of the execution offices are automatically planned for that year. But that is not true, and the answer of Minister Pelikán, when for several years the case of that particular executive office was carried out, clearly contradicts that. Just for colleagues, for your refreshment, I would remind you that there was a proposal for a financial penalty of CZK half a million for the executive office, and the Supreme Court changed that penalty to a reminder. I wonder how big the offenses must have been when the proposal for a financial penalty was relatively small, and I have not yet received an answer, and I'm sure I'll be wondering if the executor's office in question had to return what he charged as more... unauthorized costs of execution, if he had to return. That will be very interesting information for me. [[Permanent loud noise in the hall!]] Furthermore, the Prime Minister answered my questions on the matter that the President of the Executor Chamber - the case is currently being dealt with, I do not accept the result, but the case is being dealt with, where there was some confusion, which she eventually admitted herself, tried to correct. And one of the arguments why it was brought only to the point is that it was only once and for the first time. After yesterday's report, I don't know if you've been watching on our public television, it's obvious that these cases happen repeatedly. And I cannot identify with the fact that if the executioner has a ban on further business, he should be allowed to be a shareholder in business companies, because the management of assets in business companies is made up for profit and the specific cases of President Fučíková clearly show that there is an enormous conflict of interest here. [[14.40 hours]] The Executive Chamber is not united in its view of the introduction of territoriality. But I would remind you that two years ago, they adopted a resolution on their council, or what authorities they have, that bound the presidium to enforce it. The reality was, let's say, diplomatically ambiguous. At this point, most executors would accept this principle, and the minority is against this. Unfortunately, the minority, as it happens, is stronger and more powerful and can push its interests through lobbyists and PR agencies. And I ask my colleagues: why does the Executive Chamber need a PR agency to improve its reputation? Is that what the executors are making the profit for? They are supposed to make a reasonable profit to cover the costs of execution and not to have a PR agency. I would be very interested to know what amounts this PR agency charges and what everything, as a result, is being paid again by the mandatory, even though they should not. Minister Pelikán isn't here, but he's obviously satisfied with this situation and he thinks it's normal. I don't. I ask: why is there such a distaste for discussing this amendment 499? I believe that the Chamber of Deputies is finally voting today to include this item on the agenda for this April meeting, because this is the last possible time for us to discuss this press and start dealing with really cumulative enforcement problems. Plus the profits the executors have. At the first seminar I held, it was clearly declared by the large executive authorities that they consider their activities to be business. It is absolutely unacceptable for me to carry out executions to be a business. It's supposed to be a delegated exercise of judicial authority. If I was talking here a moment ago about what the profits of this business are made of, as the top executives themselves say, you may have noticed in the past besides paying the PR agency, you remember - Olomouc football club, on the back of execution.cz . Well, they don't make a profit on that. Probably the costs they had shown themselves were not only adequate to what they were actually spending, and the rewards for the executor or his employees are logical, but certainly the original intention of putting this mechanism in action was not to make money sponsoring a football club or a motor sport where I saw these ads again, or when the manager of Robert Runták's largest executive office boasts that he has a collection of artistic paintings worth CZK 100 million. I note that executors shouldn't do business, I don't know how to manage an executive office, but at the head of an executor's office, they should be the manager and exercise the transferred power of justice, not the manager, and literally smash money out of people to hoard property. I consider that an absolutely unacceptable condition. I am very surprised that the Minister of Justice is okay with this situation. Why am I talking about this? I was remembering the President of the Executor Chamber, and the Executor Chamber doesn't work that way in my opinion, it doesn't have self-control and self-cleaning, in quotation marks, function and mechanism. I remembered when we spoke, I had the opportunity with the Ombudsman in Armenia, the Republic of Armenia, who told us that the police in Armenia were heavily affected by corruption - this is the phenomenon that we are dealing with widely in our society - and they did not have to make any legislative changes at all and they did not take any other measures at all, they merely switched the police president and after some time everything started to work. I remember that, this case, and I identify with it because it's mostly about the leading personality. And I think she's the president of the Executor Chamber, who, if she can't handle order in her own ranks, it's wrong, especially when she's giving herself very serious doubts about the proper functioning of her own office. Let's say a few numbers. The 12th month of 2016 was led by 4 684 000 executions. 4 684,000 executions. The amount recovered is 325 billion! 325 billion is the amount recovered. I suppose that's the amount without accessories. I admit I haven't checked this out. There are 902,000 persons in execution, and on average each of these persons has 5.3 executions. 5.3 executions per person! Colleagues and colleagues, this problem has gotten into a state of snowball, which only packs and packs and grows and is not willing to solve it. Where's he gonna go? What's going to happen? The percentage of executions recovered is about 20 to 30 percent. What does that even mean? That the 20 to 30 mandatory ones, and I wouldn't forgive myself for telling the poor who's gonna pay for all 100 percent of the executions. Is that what you think is right and acceptable? I don't think so. There are currently 85 percent of executions initiated for persons who already have three or more executions. Do you really think that if someone has three or more executions and gets a fourth, they'll be able to pay it back? Colleagues and colleagues, 85 percent of the newly initiated executions. More than the execution of ten executors has 60,000 people! I have some charts available here. You can take a look at it. [[Shows chart]] Purple cleaver, they're executions with more than three executions - 85 percent. The rest are the ones who will pay for all the others. I could show you more tables, but I'm afraid the interest of this House is not that much to deal with this issue. Some people have touched their lives. I don't want to judge whether the execution was justified or not, which I am not going to deal with at the moment, nor will I, however, the situation where families are being broken down and some people are taking their lives, I do not consider the situation with which we should accept, although I fully recognise the obligations of those debtors, if they are justified, and I have doubts that not all executions are justified. Most of them, though, maybe. I'm about to come to a conclusion. I'd like to think about one more thing. The effects of social and economic. Employers are complaining about the lack of labour these days, these months. Last week, I visited a rather important company in our region, which manufactures for Automotive, manufactures parts where it has 30% of employees with executions. 30 per cent of employees are being executed. The person with the execution is avoiding legal employment because everything he earns except the minimum he's left with is going away. [[14.50 hours]] The employer has made it clear to me that he is paying for this in terms of productivity. And then, if this is accumulated, we run into the growth ceiling, because the person with the execution doesn't care if he works the same way as the person who doesn't want the bonus, have profit shares, have extraordinary rewards. The person with the execution doesn't care because he gets his minimum, and if there are any imaginary rewards, it doesn't matter to him. Our state is losing social security contributions, health insurance. Our finance minister is here chasing down some small businessman to banish the crowns, but many and many millions, if not billions, are missing in this area. Prisoners' recession is 70 percent. Why am I talking about prisoners? Because 60 to 80 percent of the prisoners are being executed. If he terminates his sentence and takes up civilian life, in 70 percent of the cases they return because they have no choice but to re-establish criminal activity in order to make a living. Colleagues and colleagues, this is a huge problem and we should finally begin to address it, especially when the parties to the government coalition have committed themselves to this in the government's programming statement, in the government's action plan, and everyone is talking about it as they want. I would like to comment on the proposal made by Minister Pelikán, who was also mentioned here at the House plenary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-000-000.u23	I am afraid it is difficult to comment on other proposals. At this stage, you should make a motion to amend the agenda and justify it. Of course, I don't want to restrict you, just to ask you to consider that there are 17 applications for the agenda. You're not limited, I'm just appealing to you to consider that 17 more colleagues are registered after you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-000-000.u24	I'm coming to an end, Mr President, I'll cut it short. The proposal mentioned here by Minister Pelikán is basically aimed at solidifying the current situation, when big executives become even bigger, they will have even bigger business, and the little ones will die in the fold. How can a bailiff with 60,000 executions control his employees? He was in a different position. He was supposed to be in the administration, not the manager. I consider the proposal made by Minister Pelikán to be very bad. Conclusion. I appeal to you, my colleagues, and I thank the KSČM MP and the Dawn MP who supported my proposal to include this item on the agenda of the meeting, and I believe that other parliamentary clubs will join and finally you will - I am speaking in particular to the members of the government - what you have committed yourself to, what you promised that we will address this issue. I'm not saying that I want to destroy someone or that I want to make a major difference, but the problem, based on the arguments I've sent you, requires a solution. And it was already too late. Please and I ask and appeal to you to finally release the 499 House Press on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-000-000.u25	Thank you, too. You put the alternatives where you want to put it in writing, but it might be worth reading them on the microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-000-000.u26	So, I've given four alternative suggestions on how to place this point. Be 5. 4. as the first point of the block of first reading, or a week later 12. 4. as a second point after possible second readings, i.e. after point 57, printing 881, or 26 April as the first point of the block of first reading, i.e. after third readings, or last variant 26 April as the fifth point of the block of first reading after already fixed points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-000-000.u27	Yes, thank you. Mrs Černochová, after her, Mrs Havlová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-000-000.u28	Thank you, Mr President, good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Let me also suggest the inclusion of other points, respectively. Preference of some points to the agenda for this meeting, namely point No. 139, which is House Press 1021. It is a proposal from a group of Members, among whom I am also mentioned, to issue a constitutional law amending constitutional law No. 110/1998 Coll., on Security of the Czech Republic, as amended by the Constitutional Act No. 300/2000 Coll., first reading. Unfortunately, to my displeasure and unkind surprise, this press is included in the agenda of the meeting on 26 April. The proposal was signed by a number of Members across the political spectrum. Just to clarify those of you who don't know what the proposal is: it is the amendment to the Constitution, in which the right to hold arms should be newly anchored. I often listen to my colleagues' comments, once again across the political spectrum, who are all positive about this proposal. And I would very much hate for this proposal to really turn into an election theme. Because if you want to discuss this point almost in May, it is little real that we could have changed this standard so that it could have made it to the elections. For this reason, I propose that this point, which, as I say, should be signed by a number of members of the government coalition, but also by some of us from the opposition, and we also consider it as a result of what happened two weeks ago in the European Parliament, when the European Parliament has agreed a standard that will result in the disarming of the members of the European Union, and this standard will, of course, have an impact on our legislation. I think if Home Secretary Chovanec were here, he might agree with me. This amendment to the Constitution needs to be discussed as soon as possible. Because I firmly believe that in the Ministry of the Interior they already have a lawsuit prepared for this standard for the European Court of Justice, I mean what the European Parliament has voted on. And I think it would be very helpful to discuss the lawsuit when it comes to the European Court of Justice if we had this right to hold arms in our Constitution. For this reason, I propose this as the first point today after the fixed points. First point tomorrow after the third reading, first point on Friday 7. 4:00 in the morning. Or another week on the same dates, that is, Tuesday after the fixed points next week, Wednesday after the third readings. Friday's Big Friday, so I'm not suggesting Friday's next week. Another of my proposals - and again I am unpleasantly surprised that the current government coalition does not have this in its priorities, although I was very pleased with yesterday's interview by Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek, who actually confirms what I propose in Law No. 222, in the Act on Defence of the Czech Republic. And I beg you for a firm classification of this standard. It's point number one. 184, it is the House press 1041, it is the proposal of Members Jana Černochová, Petr Fiala, Petr Bendl and others to issue a law amending Act No. 222/1999 Coll., on Security of Defence of the Czech Republic, as amended. Yes, I am trying to propose this proposal for approval under Section 90 of the Rules of Procedure at first reading, for the reason that, within all the last summits of the North Atlantic Alliance, but also as a result of what happened yesterday in St Petersburg or what we are witnessing every week in a big city, so that the Czech Republic will actually respect the things that concern our commitments to the Washington Convention. [[15.00 hours]] You know that the US administration, after the elections that took place at the end of last year, made it clear that it would be hard for the Member States of the North Atlantic Alliance to require this commitment to be fulfilled. Nor did it escape your attention that, at the last visit of Secretary of Defense, Mattis, a clear task was given to the relevant governments of the North Atlantic Alliance, and that these governments were to present a plan by the end of 2017 to raise their defence spending so that they would not continue to be stowaways. I don't know if the Prime Minister or the Secretary of Defense, maybe. another minister assures that something like this is happening, but I read the government's press honestly, I follow the program of the government of the Czech Republic, and I have never seen anything like it. On the contrary, as I say, I read yesterday's interview with Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek, and I think that if one party in this coalition has the same opinion as presented in this proposal that it should try to get other members of this coalition to do something really to defend our country and achieve our commitments in the future. For this reason, I propose to discuss this point number 184, House Press 1041, - if my proposal to include a point concerning the Constitution passes, to make it easier for the President of the House, as the second point after my proposal, in all the terms that I mentioned a little while ago in the presentation of recital 179. And my last request to you, colleagues, is a request for a solid inclusion of paragraph 164, House press 956, a proposal by Members of Jana Černochová, Ivan Gabal, Jan Hamáček, David Kádner, Martin Stropnickýý and Marek Ženíšek to issue a constitutional law amending constitutional law No. 1/1993 Coll., Constitution of the Czech Republic, as amended constitutional laws. Once again, Mr President of the Chamber of Deputies, I would like to propose this point if they go through my previous points, as point number three, in those terms that I have presented here. I would really like to ask all of you at the end - on the one hand, I suggest that these points be voted on individually, so if some of you have a problem with, for example, my last point, with paragraph 164, with the transmission of soldiers, I understand that this is your political opinion. I particularly look at my colleagues on my left. But that doesn't change the fact that the Czech Republic should try to allow faster broadcasting, faster deployment of our soldiers and rescue operations within our Constitution. Therefore, please do not block representatives of the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia from discussing this press further. I hope, Mr President of the Chamber of Deputies, that I have tabled these proposals in such a way that you are orienting yourself. In case you don't, I'll restock.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-000-000.u29	Yes. I'm just trying to figure this out. We just need to get one thing straight. If your first draft fails, the next one will be voted first. And if it doesn't pass, the next one will be the first point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-000-000.u30	That is exactly the way it is, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-000-000.u31	So it's the only detail. I hope everyone understands that. And I would like to point out that only this proposal is fifteen votes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-000-000.u32	I'm sorry. But I think you all understand or feel it or most of you feel it like I do, that these proposals are very important to the Czech Republic. Whether they are weapons or a law on securing the defence of the Czech Republic, or also an amendment to the constitutional law on faster sending soldiers. You know, I don't have the custom of the House often asking for priority points here, but we really need these standards, and if we don't discuss them in these terms, it's clear to all of us that, unfortunately, they're going to fall under the table in this parliamentary term, and I don't think we can afford that in terms of the security of our country.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-000-000.u33	Yes, thank you. And, please, Mrs Havlová, Mr Vilímec will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-000-000.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that the agenda of this meeting include a new item entitled Information Minister of Industry and Trade on Consumer Protection in the Energy Act. I'd like to place it at a fixed point on Wednesday afternoon 5. 4. It should be noted in the introduction that, in addition to general standards such as the Consumer Protection Act and the Civil Code, the Energy Act protects consumers in energy sectors. The amendment to the Energy Act, which went through the legislative process in 2015, and which we strongly protested here, should include, in addition to the technical adaptations, specific amendments strengthening consumer protection. Anyway, it didn't happen. Some of the paragraphs are still modified to allow double interpretation or even negative for consumers. The first major deficiency is the fact that the amendment to the Energy Act failed to reach provisions that would allow the conclusion of contracts for combined electricity or gas supply services in writing. Citizens of consumers thus experience daily calls made by dishonest traders, such as: The contract is being tampered with by telephone consent. Thanks to psychological tactics and consumer confusion, they manage to have even recordings of such calls as proof of the conclusion of a contract, which is then problematic to challenge. That's so-called. Bastards focus on seniors, I don't even have to mention. In connection with the change of supplier, the validity of the power of attorney is also problematic. This was to be limited to six months. This has also failed, and some traders, again, of course, the dishonest ones, may continue to abuse this situation, even without limit, if such a restriction on the power of attorney itself is lacking. The provisions of the Energy Act relating to the right to information about the concluded contract are also problematic. The attempt to clarify this provision, including the communication of the type of contract, whether for a fixed period or not and when the contractual relationship can be terminated, was in the so-called the billing decree dropped from the table by the Legislative Council of the Government as going beyond the law. Consumers so often have to look at contracts they haven't seen in years, specific data about the end of the contract. However, this is not a win either, because nonsensical conditions often apply to termination of a contractual relationship, e.g. the time limit within which the consumer must communicate his intention not to continue in a contractual relationship. Consumers are literally captured by some unfair traders. Either there will be automatic prolongation or they will withdraw from the contract after a period of time and are in danger of being sanctioned. Last but not least, under the agreement of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, he was to anchor in the amendment to the Energy Act of the Ombudsman for the energy sector. Originally, this institute, which should ensure out-of-court dispute resolution, should be enshrined in the Consumer Protection Act. However, the Ministry of Industry and Trade did not want this option and the Energy Ombudsman was to be transferred to the Energy Act. It didn't happen. Ladies and gentlemen, this government's mandate is about to end, but it has done nothing in the field of consumer protection in the Energy Act. I would like to take advantage of the fact that we have a new Minister of Industry and Trade, and I would like him to tell the citizens openly how he intends to remedy this issue. Thank you for your attention and I believe that, in order to protect our consumers' citizens, you will support the inclusion of this point at the House's meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-000-000.u35	Thank you. Please, Mr Vilímec, after him, Mr Okamura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-000-000.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me read the proposal for a solid inclusion of paragraph 24 of the draft meeting. This is the second reading of the House of Press 403, the parliamentary proposal tabled by Mr Vladislav Vilímc, Jana Černochová, Radek Vondráček, Jiří Junk and Jana Hnyková, the draft amendment to the Act on the mitigation of certain property injustices to citizens of the Czech Republic for real estate that they have left in the territory of the Podkarpatské Rusi, either for this Friday, April 7th as the first point after the already fixed points and possible other points from the third reading block, or for the next Tuesday, April 12th, after the already fixed points. Ladies and gentlemen, I note that the discussion of this bill in committees has already been completed in June last year. So we are approaching slowly ten months from the moment the two committees - the budgetary and constitutional committees - discussed this press. The Constitutional Committee adopted an amendment. None of the committees rejected this proposal. In the second reading, one more proposal will probably be read. I believe that it is necessary for us to deal with this press during this parliamentary term. The original law, which was also passed in 2009, on the basis of a proposal from Members, was then the main figures of this discussion by Mrs Hana Orgoníková from the Czech Social Democratic Party and from the Civic Democratic Party Eva Dundáčková, which was also two Members from a different political spectrum. I have already made many proposals to discuss this House's press at second reading. Even now, for several times, I appeal to you, fellow Members, to support the firm inclusion of this press. Indeed, there is a gradual decline in potential beneficiaries, some have already died in the meantime, and there is a need to decide on possible adjustments to the law, which in some cases contains certain illogicalities, at least in those matters which need to be clearly changed. This is, above all, the case where the beneficiary whose claim for compensation has been positively decided fails to live to transfer the money to the cash account. That's when the claim expires. I find that completely unacceptable. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I also believe that discussing this press at second reading will not require that much time. Thank you for your attention and helpfulness in examining this proposal of mine.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-000-000.u37	Thank you. Mr Okamura, I beg you, Mr Zahradník.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-000-000.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you once again that the end of the parliamentary term is near, and the government of the ČSSD, the ANO and KDU-ČSL movement should finally stop tricking citizens and should embark on a government statement, a point that concerns the promise of a government coalition and coalition government that the government will enforce the law on a general referendum. I therefore ask for a firm inclusion of the bill on the referendum, press 559, on the agenda, for tomorrow after the already fixed points. Since it is only half a year before the elections, it is indeed the last chance to pass this law. I propose here the referendum law repeatedly all the time. Government Members are constantly rejecting the proposals of our Freedom and Direct Democracy movement, the SPD. I would like to remind you that when we think about unfulfilled government promises, and there are many of them, it is not just an unfulfilled promise to the citizens of this country, but also an unfulfilled commitment by the coalition parties to each other. However, I understand that there is another option here, and that the government's declaration of coalition parties has only baked on the eye for form, for media and citizens, knowing that, in practice, the promises and commitments contained therein will be ignored. In that case, I understand and it will be good to let citizens know that coalition parties' promises and commitments can be relied on as firmly as their government statement. However, I wish all of us, the citizens of this country and our Republic, that one day the Constitution will be filled with diction, and the parliament that emerged from the forthcoming elections will finally accept the amendment of the Constitution, which will introduce democracy in the Czech Republic. As far as unfulfilled government promises are concerned, you haven't done pension reform, so the elderly are living. You haven't solved the execution system or the loan shark. You have not solved support for families with children, so young working families are still afraid to have more children. You have also basically bureaucratized your business. During your reign, security has deteriorated significantly, so soldiers and policemen with machine guns are walking the streets. People are increasingly concerned about the worsening availability of health care and also the results of Czech schoolchildren are worsening in international comparison. Yes, let's pour some pure wine. After three years of ČSSD government, YES and KDU-ČSL in their wallets, there is no more to the people than it was during the previous reigns of Miroslav Kalousek and ODS.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-000-000.u39	Mr. Zahradník, please. Before arriving at the microphone, I will read my apologies: Mr Komárek apologizes today from 15.45 to 17.30 for reasons of work, Mr Tejc from 14.30 to 15.05 for reasons of work, Mr Schwarzenberg between 15 and 19 on the grounds of business travel, Mr Novotný all day for health reasons, Mrs Válková today from 14 to 14.30 for personal reasons, I have already read Mr Novotný's apology. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. After you will be prepared by Mr. Mr. Kolovratník.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-000-000.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have applied for the floor in the context of the discussion of the draft programme because we have once again on the agenda of our amendment to Law 114, on the conservation of nature and landscape, to be discussed by the President. You found a brochure on your desks that we have distributed to you with the permission of the President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-000-000.u41	Ambassador, I don't want to limit you to any of your previous speakers. I'm just pointing out that if you want to get off, you have to make a motion to change the agenda of the meeting. Please note that this press is the first, which means if you want to change its classification, you can get out. If you want to comment on some material that's distributed on the bench, I'm afraid that's not possible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-000-000.u42	Excuse me, President of the Chamber of Deputies. I propose that we translate this item, which is the second item in the order for today's meeting and has the number one in our agenda, to next Tuesday.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-000-000.u43	I'm sorry. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-000-000.u44	That is, on 11 April, at 14 o'clock, respectively, after the beginning of the meeting and after the discussion of these procedural points, which cannot be predicted at what time. First item in the hearing next Tuesday. I am justifying my proposal with two arguments. The first argument is this material itself. While you were approached by the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic at the last hearing of the law, with their views and brochures of the Šumava municipality, the Association of Municipalities of the National Park of Šumava, you are now allowed to address the association of independent experts, scientists, environmentalists who are associated in the Life Movement. This Movement Life at its conference discussed climate change, changes related to the impact of the amendment of the Nature Conservation Act on Šumava, the Šumava Nature. The brochure has about 100, 112 pages and reading it will take some time. We would like every Member, every Member, to take time to read, to get to know these arguments, which are in favour of the Šumava nature, of course, but also for the benefit of man. [[15.20 hours]] The second argument that I would like to support my motion to move a point to next Tuesday is that, while the discussion of this amendment returned to the Senate was accompanied by dozens, perhaps hundreds of e-mails that each Member, each Member, received from environmental activists or people affected by these activists, we can see that the group of people we can call a silent majority is slowly beginning to appear. They are slowly beginning to realise the full impact of this law, they are starting to write letters to Members, they are also starting to call the Members by telephone. So there are fewer, that is to be said. These people are not so skilled in internet service, they are not so experienced in showing their intentions and, of course, they also do not have the strict methodological guidance that the Rainbow Movement provides activists with. Still, it would be good if they had a chance to show their will, their opinion so that they could write to you, call you, send you e-mails. Therefore, my request to move this point, to give these people time, so that they can still have their views on the Members before such a serious vote as will be the vote on the amendment of Law 114 returned to the President of the Republic of our House at this meeting. So the proposal is to move to Tuesday 11 April as the first point after discussing procedural proposals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-000-000.u45	Thank you. Of course, that's how you were able to perform. I'm sorry I stepped into your speech. So it's point one, we're moving it to 11. 4. as the first item of the hearing, provided, of course, that the Chamber of Deputies has agreed to do so. I beg Mr Kolovratník and Mrs Pekarová Adamová after him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-000-000.u46	Colleagues and colleagues, good afternoon, I will be much more brief than my opponents. I am speaking on behalf of the Election Commission and I am asking only for the elimination of one ballot point, namely the motion for amendments to the composition of the Chamber of Deputies. Please remove this item from the agenda of this meeting. This is for a simple reason - because we have not received any proposal from the Commission. And I would like to take advantage of the fact that I have the floor at this time, and I am declaring once again the deadline for submitting a nomination proposal to the Czech News Agency today by 6:00 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-000-000.u47	Thank you, too. This is item 264. Isn't that right? Thank you. I beg Mrs Pekarová Adamová and Mrs Fiedler after her with a second application.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-000-000.u48	Hello, Mr President, dear colleagues. I will also be very brief. I would like to ask you to submit item number 125, which is House Press No 730, which I, together with other colleagues, present concerning the determination of maternity allowance, cash assistance in maternity. I have asked for this several times, I have justified it several times too, so I will not repeat myself, but I believe that in order to make this change even during this parliamentary term, it is necessary for it to be a turn. I would therefore ask that we include this point as the first point for next week on Tuesday, i.e. firmly after the already fixed points, to be precise. So thank you in advance for supporting my proposal. I believe that families and especially young mothers deserve this. So thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-000-000.u49	Madame. Let me get this straight. You have the first fixed item written in that written application, so as the first point of action? Because now we have four fixed points, i.e. in front of them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-000-000.u50	To make the best possible match, I'm gonna ask after the fixed points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-000-000.u51	So after the fixed points. Yes, thank you. Mr. Fiedler, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-000-000.u52	Thanks for the word, it's really gonna be shorter this time. I am speaking with a proposal to include a point called The Recognition of the Genocide of the Armenian People of the Ottoman Empire. A small change from what I have mentioned, because what you are currently watching, as Turkey today, as it calls the various states or peoples of Europe fascist, does not leave me completely calm, especially when I was in Armenia, I had the opportunity to get to know the way the Armenian side sees this issue. I think it is time for us to say no to how Turkey shows itself, what an ultimatum it exposes, and how it forgets how it was done about a hundred years ago against the millions of Armén who have been murdered. This item has already been lectured here by the KSČM MEP, I think, proposed, I repeat it now, and I think that the situation that is currently on this gives even stronger reasons to think about it. I remind you that many other countries have already done this, I suspect France, Germany, and I do not see the least reason why we should not clearly say that we will not accept such a huge genocide and consider it a genocide on the people of another nation. May I ask, Mr President, the terms I have proposed?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-000-000.u53	I think I'll read it from here. It's 6. 4:00 p.m., 6:00 p.m. 4. after completion of written interventions. That's the same thing because it's 6. The 4th written interpelation ends at 11.00.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-000-000.u54	So one term.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-000-000.u55	So 6. 4:00 p.m. Thank you. Mr. Plíšek, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-000-000.u56	Mr President, my dear colleagues, allow me, for a group of Members, Martin Plíšek, Jan Chvojka, Marek Benda and Radek Vondráček, to propose that we place firmly on Wednesday 26 April as the first item after the third readings item 27, which is a proposal for these Members to issue a law amending the Law on Advocacy, which is the House Press 853. I will just add that the guarantee committee has discussed this House's press consensually, proposing amendments on which there is a clear consensus, and nothing prevents us from reading the second reading of this House's press, which has been submitted by a group of Members across the political spectrum and with which the government has also agreed to discuss it at second reading. So I propose Wednesday, April 26, as the first point after the third reading. It's point 27, print 853. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-000-000.u57	Thank you and please Mrs Nováková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-000-000.u58	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask the honourable Chamber of Deputies to agree to discuss the amendment to the School Act in April, which was submitted to the Government in July 2016. This is not an opposition proposal, but it is a few dozen Members who have jointly submitted this amendment, and they are members of the ČSSD, YES, Dawn, KDU-ČSL, ODS and TOP 09. Ladies and gentlemen, when this term is over, we will be able to say that we have approved two important laws concerning education and education. Both school law with inclusion and all other things as well as a very breakthrough career order. If this Friday is approved, the Chamber of Deputies will leave some work behind in this regard. [[15.30 hours]] But there are also children in schools and schools not only educate them but also educate them. And in a situation in which the Czech Republic, in which the EU is and slowly the whole world, is becoming extremely important that a person who wants to be somewhat liberal, wants to approach everyone else with respect, so this person must first of all be aware of his own identity. And the cultural identity is in the aforementioned amendment to the School Act. It is about making the preamble or general educational objectives, the beginning of the school law, comply with the Constitution of the Czech Republic, which says that we should protect, guard and develop inherited values. And we would like, all of us, co-chairmen of the amendment, to do this also in general educational goals, that, therefore, in our schools, European culture is being passed on, that our children should be aware that they belong to a culture, which is the best step to approach different cultures with reason, with tolerance and respect. And another thing that is contained in this novel, I turn to it, we take great care of our teachers, or we want to take care of them, we want them to grow professionally, to receive better financial appreciation, but there are also children. And even children should know that they have some responsibilities, that it is necessary for them to be held accountable and to carry out their duties - both personal, work, but also civil. And that's the second part of the school bill amendment. I would like to ask you, Honourable House, to agree that the first reading of this amendment to the School Act can take place tomorrow as the fifth afternoon point, or fifth point of the afternoon meeting during the first reading. In the event that this would not be possible, please place this point as the first point in the first reading on 12 April. I didn't put that in, I'll fill it in. So the first proposal - that tomorrow at the afternoon meeting be the fifth point in the first reading, or, if it is not possible for this point to be on 12 April - is point 146 of the proposed programme, the House Press 858 - so that this House Press is discussed at first reading as the first point in the first reading on 12 April. That's the alternative. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-000-000.u59	Good afternoon, dear fellow Members, dear fellow Members. Thank you, and now with priority right, the President of the Chamber of Deputies, Jan Hamáček. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-000-000.u60	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'll be very brief. I propose that paragraph 159, House press 920, which is Mr Tejc's proposal and others, which amends Law No. 89/2012 Sb., which is the Civil Code, and Act No. 90/2012 Coll., on Companies and Commercial Corporations, ranked on Wednesday 26. 4. after paragraph 177. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-000-000.u61	After point 177. Thank you. Another duly registered member is Mr Václav Zemek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-000-000.u62	Thank you for the floor. Beautiful afternoon. I suggest we disable item number 12 from the agenda of this meeting, it's House press number 408. This is about trading military material. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-000-000.u63	Disable. Thank you. Another enrollment is Mrs Věra Kovářová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-000-000.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, let me propose on the agenda the inclusion of a point under the title Trouble in drawing European money on the expansion of high-speed Internet on Thursday 6. 4. as the fourth point after the fixed ones, I mean overall. Why I consider this to be important may be unnecessary to explain, but I would rather repeat it. It's 14 billion. CZK that we can use to expand the high-speed internet. This has not yet been achieved. On the part of this government, a number of deadlines were not fulfilled. The last promise was that the challenge would be announced by the end of March this year. This has happened, and the call was launched on 31 March, but there are errors that will need to be removed. On this issue of the fact that only one provider can receive a subsidy in each defined area, which would record to large companies at the expense of smaller, local ones, Hospodářské noviny and iDNES.cz have already pointed out , which further warns against the real threat of unexhaustible funds for the development of the Internet, and thus also for rural development. By the way, she's got a challenge of 1.5 billion. Crowns, not all 14 billion. You're 2.5 billion. Are they written off yet? So they don't count? Or will there be an effort to reprogram them? I think that, given what is happening with European money being spent on the fast Internet, we cannot pretend that we do not see the problems. Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I have been on this subject for a long time, and I have brought the difficulties to the attention of Prime Minister Sobotka in a number of interventions. He was wondering about this challenge, and I hope it's no wonder now that he knows that the pumping isn't going smoothly. I also intervened with Minister Mládek and also turned to Minister Šlechtová. I can say with certainty that interpelation is not enough. This is a problem which we must address directly to the point within which the House will be able to discuss it with the Prime Minister, with the Minister of Industry and Trade and with the Minister of Regional Development and will bring about consequences. Yes, I think it is necessary to conclude this debate by adopting a resolution in which the Chamber of Deputies will make it clear to the Government that it is unhappy with the way in which European money is drawn to expand the high-speed Internet. I'm getting ahead of myself. The first step, of course, is to place a point on the agenda of the meeting, which I am asking you to do. I repeat, it's 14 billion. CZK from European funds, whose use in this case is, in my opinion, meaningful and which we really should not let slip away between our fingers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-000-000.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Mrs. Kovářová. Mr Jan Skopeček is another duly signed up for the agenda. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-000-000.u66	Thank you very much. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I have a proposal to place a point that's a little strange. It's an explanation for Prime Minister Sobotka's tweet of 25. 3. 2017. As you will understand, I would like to quote the tweet itself: "After experience with two wars, Munich, Nazi totalitarianism, life behind the Iron Curtain, with the wild 90s, it is good that we are part of the European Union." I consider it unacceptable to compare the Nazi past with the 1990s, which, in my view, was an unprecedented example of the freedom and growth of our country's economic performance and the building of democracy in the Czech Republic. I don't think it's possible to compare these two periods in one sentence, in just a tweet, or put them in context. I understand that the Prime Minister may have zealous collaborators who write the tweet, but I think that after a mature consideration when he finds out that such a tweet appears on his profile, he should delete it. However, the tweet has been on the profile for several days, and although I called on the Prime Minister to delete the tweet through electronic communication, it continues to appear on his profile. [[15.40 hours]] Let me just remind you that in the 1990s gross domestic product increased from 600 billion to 2 trillion crowns. The nominal average wage has risen from 3,000 to 12,000. Crowns. The balance of the state budget in the 1990s was a total of CZK minus CZK 75 billion, which is roughly the government's annual deficit. And so did life expectancy for about three years. That's the wild '90s. I think it's really possible to have different opinions in the '90s. It is possible to confront the various steps of the transformation of the Czech Republic in the 1990s. However, really putting into one sentence and in one context the Nazi past, communist totalitarianism, Munich and the 1990s is beyond the line and it is not worth the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic. Therefore, I ask that this point be placed at this meeting and the Prime Minister has a chance to explain how this tweet thought, because I do not believe that he himself could compare the horrors of the Nazi past with the 1990s. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-000-000.u67	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador, please, what exactly is the name of that point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-000-000.u68	That point is to be called the explanation of Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka's tweet of 25. 3. 2017.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-000-000.u69	And you only want to put him on the agenda. You have no fixed date... There. Mrs Alena Nohavová is another member of the agenda. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-000-000.u70	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I propose to pre-classify paragraph 185, House press 1042, which is proposed to discuss in accordance with Section 90, on Wednesday, April 12, following the already fixed points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-000-000.u71	Wednesday morning. [[Mrs Nohavová: In the morning, yes.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-000-000.u72	It's a simple amendment to the Public Health Insurance Act. It's actually a vaccination of seniors over 65 years of age against pneumococcal disease. There are currently two vaccines available for this age group, one of which is fully covered and the other with a supplement. The amendment deals with both vaccines being free of charge, of course for this age group. And on the novel, there's a consensus across the political spectrum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-000-000.u73	Thank you, Madame. Mr Matěj Fichtner is the last registered member. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-000-000.u74	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I was beginning to worry that he wouldn't get to me. Allow me, on behalf of the group of appellants, pursuant to § 86 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies to withdraw the draft amendment to the Lotteries Act, which is registered as the Parliamentary Press 169, and therefore to propose that it be removed from the next agenda of the meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-000-000.u75	We're not voting on that. In case you're all in agreement, we'll take that under advisement. There. I will call our colleagues from the lobby, and we will vote on the draft agenda, on the proposals, as proposed. First, we will proceed to the vote on the proposal from the Gremium. The Grémium proposes to include new points in the 56th meeting - a government proposal to give prior consent to the proposal for a Council decision establishing a multiannual framework for the EU Agency for Fundamental Rights for the period 2018 to 2022, a House press of 1076, and the final Report of the Chamber of Deputies' Committee of Investigation for the Examination of Serious Emergences, which became part of the preparation and implementation of the D47 construction. In addition, the Grémium proposes to include paragraphs 222, 223 and 224, points 217, 988, 229, 1044, originally included on Thursday, 13 April, after points 222, 223 and 224. 4. And as the sixth to include paragraph 221, the House's press is 1000. Furthermore, on Wednesday, April 12, at 6 pm, to include paragraph 285, Information from the Prime Minister on the withdrawal of Great Britain from the EU. The inclusion of this item will be valid only if Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka is present on this day. These were proposals from the Gremium that I am going to vote on. Initiating vote on proposals from the Gremium. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Thank you. It's vote number two. 167 Members and Members are registered, for 148, against none. The motion was accepted. There. Now, let's go. Mr Mihola proposes to include paragraph 28 and paragraph 73 on 5. 4... 14... So point 28 suggests that we put it in 5. 4:30 p.m. Isn't that right? Every single point, Mr. Chairman? Yes. So point 28 to mark 5. 4:30 p.m. I've started the vote. Anyone in favor, raise your hand, press the button. Who's against it? It's vote number three. 167 Members and Members are registered, for 71, against 67. The motion was not accepted. Furthermore, President Mihola proposes to include paragraph 73 on 12. 4. after paragraph 57. Point 73 mark 12. 4. after paragraph 57. I am opening the vote on this proposal. All in favor. Who's against it? It's vote number four. 167 Members and Members are registered, for 49, against 80. Nor has this proposal been adopted. Vice-President Filip proposes paragraph 126, 132 and paragraph 201 on Wednesday 5. 4. the first to third point of the afternoon meeting at 14.30. I am opening the vote on this proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's vote number five. 168 Members and Members are registered, for 38, against 109. The motion was not accepted. Vice-President Vondráček takes back the anti-smoking law - paragraph 272. Mr Fiedler wants item 188, Senate proposal, amendment to the Code of Civil Procedure, to include - the number of the House press is 499 - in four alternatives that he wants to vote on separately. [[15.50 hours]] First alternative, item 188, House press 499, mark 5. 4. as the first point of the block of first reading. I am opening the vote on this proposal. Who's in? Who's against it? It's vote number six. 169 Members and Members are registered, for 39, against 81. The motion was not accepted. Another alternative is the inclusion of 12. 4. as a second point after possible second readings, this is after paragraph 57, House printing 881. Initiating vote. Who's up for the 12. 4. Let him raise his hand, press the button. Who's against it? It's vote number seven. 169 Members and Members are registered for 43 against 67. The motion was not accepted. Another alternative is 26. 4. as the first point of the block of first reading after third readings. I have begun the vote on this proposal. Anyone in favor, raise your hand, press the button. Who's against it? It's vote number eight. 169 Members and Members are registered, for 42, against 70. The motion was not accepted. The last alternative to including this point is 26. 4. as the fifth point after the block of first reading after already fixed points. I have begun the vote on this proposal. Anyone in favor, raise your hand, press the button. Who's against it? It's vote number nine. 170 Members and Members are registered, for 39, against 78. Nor has this proposal been adopted. Now we've got a nut to crack. Mrs Jana Černochová first requests the inclusion of point 139, House press 1021, amendment to the Constitution, in the following five alternatives: As the first point today after the fixed points. I am opening the vote on this proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's vote number 10. 170 Members and Members are registered, for 35, against 75. The motion was not accepted. The second alternative is the first point tomorrow after the third reading. I've started the vote. Who is in favour of this point 139, House printing 1021, being placed tomorrow as the first point after the third reading, let him raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's vote number 11. 170 Members and Members are registered, for 34, against 69. The motion was not accepted. Alternative C - first point on Friday at 9 o'clock. Initiating vote. Whoever's up for Friday 9 a.m., raise his hand, press the button. Who's against it? It's vote number 12. 170 Members and Members are registered, for 35, against 64. Nor has this proposal been adopted. In addition, the proposal for Tuesday 11. 4. after fixed points. I started the vote on inclusion on Tuesday 11. 4. after fixed points. Anyone in favor, raise your hand, press the button. Who's against it? It's vote number 13. 170 Members and Members are registered, for 36, against 70. Nor has this proposal been adopted. The last alternative is Wednesday 12. 4th after 3rd readings. I am opening the vote on this proposal. Anyone in favor, raise your hand, press the button. Who's against it? It's vote number 14. 170 Members and Members are registered, for 36, against 70. Nor has this proposal been adopted. Mrs Černochová also places item 184 in five alternatives. So, paragraph 184 - first we will vote on the inclusion of this point today after the fixed points. Initiating vote. Anyone in favor, raise your hand, press the button. Who's against it? It's vote number 15. 170 Members and Members are registered, for 32, versus 71. The motion was not accepted. Another proposal is the inclusion of paragraph 184 tomorrow after third readings. I am opening the vote on this proposal. Anyone in favor, raise your hand, press the button. Tomorrow after the third reading. Who's against it? It's vote number 16. 170 Members and Members are registered, for 40, against 64. The motion was not accepted. Furthermore, paragraph 184 of the honourable Member proposes to include the first item on Friday at 9 o'clock. I have begun the vote on this proposal. Anyone in favor, raise your hand, press the button. Who's against it? It's vote number 17. 170 Members and Members are registered, for 30, against 72. The motion was not accepted. The next proposal is to include paragraph 184 on Tuesday at 11. 4. on the basis of the fixed points on which I have taken the vote. Anyone in favor, raise your hand, press the button. Who's against it? It's vote number 18. 170 Members and Members are registered, for 40, against 65. Nor has this proposal been adopted. And the last vote on paragraph 184 is Wednesday 12. 4. after the third reading, which I started voting on. Who's up for point 184 on Wednesday 12. 4. after the third reading, let him raise his hand, press the button. Who's against it? It's vote number 19. 170 Members and Members are registered, for 39, against 65. The motion was not accepted. Another proposal by Mrs Černochová is paragraph 164. He also suggests five variants. This means today after the fixed points. I am opening the vote on the inclusion of paragraph 164 today after the fixed points. Anyone in favor, raise your hand, press the button. Who's against it? It's vote number 20. 170 Members and Members are registered, for 53, against 75. The motion was not accepted. Second alternative point 164 tomorrow after third readings. I shall begin the vote on the inclusion of paragraph 164 tomorrow after the third reading. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's vote number 21. 170 Members and Members are registered, for 57, against 66. Nor has this proposal been adopted. Another alternative is to include point 164 on Friday at 9 a.m. Initiating vote. Whoever's up for Friday at 9:00 in the morning, raise your hand, press the button. Who's against it? It's vote number 22. 170 Members and Members are registered, for 52, against 63. The motion was not accepted. The next proposal is the inclusion of paragraph 164 on Tuesday 11. 4. after fixed points. I have begun the vote on this proposal. Anyone in favor, raise your hand, press the button. Who's against it? It's the number 23 vote. 170 Members and Members are registered, for 57, against 67. The motion was not accepted. And the last vote on point 164 is a proposal for Wednesday 12. 4th after 3rd readings. I have begun the vote on this proposal. Who's for Wednesday 12. 4. after the third reading, let him raise his hand, press the button. Who's against it? It's vote number 24. 170 Members and Members are registered for 61, versus 65. The motion was not accepted. These were Mrs Černochová's proposals. In addition, Mrs Havlová suggests that the Minister of Industry and Trade for Consumer Protection in the Energy Act be included as a new point on Wednesday 5. 4. after fixed points. I am opening the vote on this proposal. Anyone in favor, raise your hand, press the button. Who's against it? It's the number 25 vote. 170 Members and Members are registered, for 42, against 72. The motion was not accepted. [[16.00 hours]] In addition, Mr Vilímec proposes the inclusion of point 24 in two alternatives, first 7. 4. after fixed points. Initiating vote on the inclusion of paragraph 24. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a 26 vote, 170 Members and Members registered, for 58, against 70. The motion was not accepted. The second alternative is the inclusion of point 24 to 12. 4. after fixed points. I have begun the vote on this proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a 27 vote, 170 Members and Members are registered, for 62, against 64. The motion was not accepted. Furthermore, Mr Okamura proposes item 62 to be included tomorrow after the fixed points. I am opening the vote on this proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is vote 28, registered 170 Members and Members, for 24, against 101. The motion was not accepted. Mr Zahradník proposes to move item 1 to 11. 4th as the first point of action. I am opening the vote on this proposal. Who's up for moving the first point to 11. 4. as the first point of action, let him raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the 29th vote, 170 Members and Members, for 23, against 100. The motion was not accepted. Mr Kolovratník proposes to eliminate the point of change in the institutions of the Chamber of Deputies. It's point 264. I am opening the vote on this proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a 30 vote, 170 Members and Members registered, for 145, against 4. The motion was accepted. Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová proposes to include point 125 on Tuesday 11. 4. as the first point after fixed points. I am opening the vote on this proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the 31st vote, 170 Members and Members, for 60, against 80. The motion was not accepted. Mr Fiedler proposes a new point of recognition for the genocide of the Armenian people in the Ottoman Empire. He's suggesting it to six. 4:00 p.m. I am opening the vote on this proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a 32 vote, 169 Members and Members are registered, for 75, against 42. The motion was not accepted. Mr Martin Plíšek proposes to include point 27, which is the proposal of Members Martin Plíšek, Jan Chvojka, Marek Benda and Radek Vondráček to issue a law amending Act No. 85/1996 Coll., on advocacy, as the first point after the third reading 26. 4. I am opening the vote on this proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's a 33 vote, 170 Members and Members signed up for 125, against 3. The motion was accepted. Mrs Nina Nováková proposes to include press 858, paragraph 146, the amendment to the School Act, in two options. Tomorrow as the fifth point of the afternoon. I am opening the vote on this proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a 34 vote, 170 Members and Members registered, for 53, against 74. The motion was not accepted. In the second alternative, Mrs Nováková proposes the inclusion of the amendment to the Education Act, paragraph 146, to 12. 4. as the first point of first reading. I am opening the vote on this proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a vote of 35, 170 Members and Members signed up for 62, against 83. The motion was not accepted. President Jan Hamáček proposes the inclusion of paragraph 159, House press 920, Civil Code, on Wednesday 26. 4. after paragraph 177. I am opening the vote on this proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's a 36 vote, 70 vote, 54 vote. [[170 Members of Parliament are enrolled]] The motion was not accepted. Mr Václav Zemek proposes to remove item number 12, House press 408, which is a government bill amending Act No. 38/1994 Coll., on Foreign Trade in Military Materials. He's suggesting we take out the second reading. It would probably be logical to rule out third reading. If the Member agrees with this, I add paragraph 255 to that, that is the third reading of this bill. I will vote on the elimination of these two points, second and third readings - unless there is an objection to my progress. Initiating vote on elimination of second and third readings, that is points 12 and 255, from the agenda. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a 37 vote, 170 Members and Members registered, for 146, against 4. The motion was accepted. The next proposal is Mrs Věra Kovářová's proposal, which wants to include a new point entitled Trouble in drawing European money on the expansion of high-speed Internet. He wants to include it on Thursday 6. 4. as the fourth point after fixed points. I am opening the vote on this proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a 38 vote, 170 Members and Members registered, for 80, against 63. The motion was not accepted. Mr Jan Skopeček proposes to include on the agenda an explanation of the tweet of Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka from 27. 3. 2017. I am opening the vote on this proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a 39 vote registered with 170 Members, for 37, against 73, therefore the Prime Minister will not explain the tweet. [[16.10 hours]] Mrs Alena Nohavová proposes to include paragraph 185, House press 1042, amendment to the Public Health Insurance Act, on Wednesday morning 12. 4. after fixed points. I am opening the vote on this proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is vote number 40, 170 Members and Members registered, for 70, against 73. The motion was not accepted. Mr Matěj Fichtner takes back the amendment to the Lottery Act. We're not voting on that. This has dealt with all the proposals and we will vote on the agenda of the meeting as a whole with all the proposals. Initiating vote on the draft agenda. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the 41st vote, 170 Members and Members are registered, for 98, against 37. The motion was accepted. That's how we dealt with the meeting program. President Hamáček apologizes today by the end of the day for working reasons. One more note. The first point of today's meeting is
