ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-004-245.u1	245. Proposal by Members Věra Kovářová, Jan Farský and others for the law amending Act No. 361/2000 Coll., on Road Traffic and Amendments to Certain Acts (the Road Traffic Act), as amended, and Act No. 634/2004 Sb., on administrative fees, as amended /house print 807/ - third reading I ask that Mrs Věra Kovářová and the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, Mr Jan Klán, take the position at the rapporteur's table. The amendments are set out in the 807/5 Houses of Press, which were delivered to you on 3 March t. r. The resolution of the Guarantee Committee was then delivered as the 807/6 House Press. The plaintiff is interested in speaking. Please, plaintiff.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-004-245.u2	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a proposal for an amendment to the Act on Traffic on the Roads before us this time in the third reading. Let me introduce you to the most important thing that preceded today and what is important for today's vote. Well, first of all. The basis of the proposal is currently a comprehensive amendment based on the results of negotiations between the Ministry of Transport, representatives of the Union of Towns and Municipalities and, last but not least, as representatives of the petitioners. I adopted this amendment and was subsequently adopted by the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. Like the original draft, this comprehensive amendment has a simple objective - to make life easier for applicants for a driving licence. In particular, those applicants who study or travel for work, or for other reasons, stay out of their place of residence. Let me give you an example from my e-mail. A student from Moravia wrote to me a while ago - I quote: "I have a permanent residence in Znojemsko, but I stay in Prague for a long time because of my work at my doctorate. This year my driving licence issued at the Znojmo Municipal Authority will expire. However, its renewal cannot be carried out through another city office without a change in permanent residence. It is also not possible to have a completed driver's licence sent to another city office as opposed to the ID card. Therefore, in order to exchange my driving licence, I have to take two days of vacation and travel twice 200 kilometers there and back with a cost of CZK 900 only for a fare, which is responsible for a student like me, for example, for a weekly food budget." Again, I stress that this amendment gives these people a helping hand when it allows them to apply for a driving licence, not in a community with extended scope in a place of residence, but in any community with extended scope. The issue of driving licences will also be facilitated. In addition, as submitters, we strive to ensure that, where the Authority already has a photograph of an applicant fulfilling certain parameters, it is not obliged to require it from the applicant again. The proposal also assumes that photos can be taken on the spot. That, I think, is very helpful and sensible. Two. Several amendments were applied to this compromise at second reading. I would like to express my support now for my colleague Farský's proposal, who seeks to achieve the immediate effectiveness of the proposal, which I believe is not only necessary from the point of view of the public, but also manageable by the Ministry of Transport with a little goodwill. In conclusion, please allow me to reiterate my conviction that by adopting this proposal, we can approach what the public administration should look like in the 21st century, and I therefore beg you to take this step together today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-004-245.u3	Thank you, Mrs. plaintiff. I'll remind you, 12 o'clock. Forty-five hours, we have an election point. I am opening the debate, which was the first to be heard by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-004-245.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not be able to delay, just to sum up some amendments. Only one de facto is a little clashing, it is Mr Bendl's amendment, which will certainly come out after me and will in some way be there for his amendment, which, of course, seems to have nothing to do with road traffic. We, as a committee, voted for this in some way. Then I'll introduce you to the draft procedure. However, I draw my attention to the fact that if Mr Bendl's amendment passes, I will unfortunately not support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-004-245.u5	Thank you. Mr Petr Bendl is also enrolled in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-004-245.u6	Have a good day. I'm sorry, I really don't want to delay, but because it's a media-so-disputed topic without someone in the media dealing with the actual operational and what the changeling is actually about is that it's being presented to people, that perhaps there should be more billboards here, etc., that it's necessary not to change the situation, because the situation today is probably great and excellent and it suits everyone, so I can't keep quiet about it, all the more so, that I've been provoked to it more or less in the long term. [[12.40 hours]] First, the sticker. I took the job and consulted the House with legislation on whether or not it is an adhesive, and given that it is a law that concerns communication, it is not so-called from another world, so House legislation confirms that it is not a clean sticker. I am not alone in discussing this amendment in the past. He was discussing...
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-004-245.u7	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador. I'm asking my colleagues to keep their voices down and transfer their calls to the front. Please continue when it's quiet here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-004-245.u8	He discussed various committees, economics, the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, which ultimately did not adopt an opinion on this amendment, neither refused nor recommended this amendment. I myself wonder why they are actually operating a system in Austria, Slovakia, a system that says that it should actually be with the greater powers of the community, whether they will be billboards, or not billboards, because it's kind of a media thing here, even though this paragraph concerns a number of other things, the definition of built-up territory and the like, as possible, where I've stepped on it, I'm thinking to myself. Not that I'm not like the male part of this world egocentric, but that I appear on the headline of a major journal with some criticism that I may want billboards and so on, signed by a renowned journalist who I respect, but not explained what the problem is. Who's it worth waging this pseudomedia war? Who actually wants the ad authorisation system inside the community not to be just one? So that municipalities can't decide or influence municipalities more or less? So that other and other authorities would decide, in a very complicated way? And I'm gonna prove it to you on the materials that came from the Ministry of Transport, and I'm really sorry that there isn't a Minister of Transport here, I almost think he's not here on purpose, but also on the materials that come from the Ministry of Transport, and on the materials that I requested from the Ministry of Regional Development, because a lot of people are just afraid of this issue because he's interfering... [[Silence because of the noise in the O.R. The President is ringing.]] ...probably into large financial groups, which is why I'm being dragged in this media. What's going on? We have two ad authorisation systems. One concerns the territory outside the municipality's intraviles and it should end at 1. 9. 2017 on the basis of the adopted amendment to the Road Act in 2012, and if anyone felt that it was us who might want to support billboards, or I as a citizen's democrat, then they can also look at the time when the billboards on motorways were banned, and that it is now the duty of the Ministry of Transport to ensure that there are no billboards outside the interiors of municipalities. It was at the time of Nečasův' government, at a time when you may remember that a certain American company threatened the Czech Republic with arbitration and so on. Well, I'm saying for myself, I'm not gonna let you threaten me like that. The fact that someone signed a very advantageous contract at the Ministry of Transport in the early 1990s with someone for hundreds of billboards in the Czech Republic for an indefinite period and that they want to threaten the Czech Republic today, or threaten the Czech Republic with arbitration in the past, makes me feel that we should not hunch about it and pretend that nothing like this is happening. What is happening in the media world is a reflection and I think there are some reasons where I actually stepped on the amendment, that it is not something that Mr Petr Bendl or any Member of you could influence whether or not this community decides whether or not it wants a billboard on its territory. I know a lot of mayors who don't want billboards on their territory, and the current system doesn't allow them to influence it because other administrative authorities decide. I can also demonstrate this by the opinion of the Ministry of Regional Development, which says that there is really legal chaos and that it is difficult to judge what regime the system is actually under. In order to understand how this works, those of you who may not be confronted directly with it, I must say that inside the village from the mark to the sign indicating the entrance to the village that tells us you're changing speed from 90 or 70, or I don't know what number to 50 kilometers per hour, there are two authorisation systems.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-004-245.u9	I'm very sorry, Mr. Ambassador. I have to interrupt you, unfortunately, because it's 12:45 p.m., and we've fixed another point for this hour, so I'm interrupting this point, renegotiating paragraph 245. Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Initiating point
