ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, before we begin our negotiations on the request of 62 Members to convene a meeting of the Chamber of Deputies on the mining of lithium by Australian miners in the Czech Republic, we must first decide on the following matter. According to Article 53 (1) (a) of the EC Treaty, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. The Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies shall not be held on Monday unless otherwise decided by the House. I received a request from 62 Members on Monday 9 October of this year and pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure Act I was obliged to convene this meeting no later than 10 days after receipt of the request. In assessing the specific date for the meeting, I took particular account of the fact that at least five days have passed between the Members' notification of the meeting and its opening, as provided for in Section 51 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 6 of that law. At the same time, I also took note of the fact that there are only a few days left before the elections, and this meeting should not be held in my opinion immediately before the elections. For these reasons, I have decided to convene a meeting for today, i.e. Monday, October 16th. Having regard to Article 53 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Therefore, we must first decide whether a meeting of the House will take place on Monday, 16 October 2017. As there is no voting device in this room, we will vote by raising our hand and the results of this vote will be collected by the scrutinists designated by the Head of the Chamber of Deputies. For your information, these are scrutinists and scrutinists: Hana Celiznová, Eva Dostálová, Petr Dvořáček, Michaela Fořtová, Monika Jirkalová, Radka Kohoutová, Alena Malá, Petra Novotná, Pavlína Odehnalová, Helena Prokopová, Jana Řehořová, Olga Šmejkalová, Kateřina Urbanová, Miroslava Zelenková and Barbora Zeťová. I ask if any of the Members object to the persons of the scrutinizers? It's not like that. I'll ask the technician if it would be possible to amplify the sound in the hall, because there are complaints that I can't hear enough. I'll add to my voice, too. Two more intel. Please don't use the microphones on your desks. They're disconnected. And just as in the main Chamber, we will speak from the counter. And I beg you, given that we are going to add it manually so that during the vote, you remain in your seats so that the vote does not change our favour. Let's give it a try. I would like to make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees pursuant to § 53 para. 3 of Law No. 90/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, that the 61st meeting of the Chamber of Deputies will take place on Monday, 16 October 2017. We shall therefore begin the vote. Firstly, I ask that the number of Members present be determined. I ask all Members present to raise their hand and hold on until the census is completed. [[During the census of the votes to the hall come other Members, the situation is unclear.]] Colleagues and colleagues, that's exactly the situation we assumed for the club leadership. I will ask you once again to find out thevor, because seven other Members have arrived and therefore it would obviously not suit us. [[Other Members are still moving around the hall.]] Quiet in the hall, please. I ask the Members to take their seats. [[13.10 hours]] Once again, please note the number of Members present. Please raise your hands. And please add up one more time. [[Counting in progress.]] The number of Members present is 149. The vote for this vote is 75. I will ask who agrees with the motion for a resolution that I have tabled, please raise your hand. [[The scrutinists are counting the voters.]] Who's against it? I don't see anyone. That means I'm going to have to add up from here, and I'm asking for the result. The result of vote number 1: 149, for 145, against no one. This proposal has been adopted, so I am of the opinion that we have agreed that the meeting will take place on Monday.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-000-000.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 61st meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome to all of you. Before I go any further, please the Minister of Culture, who asked me to perform.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-000-000.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I would like to address you with one request. On 16 October 1941 the transport of Žid from Prague to Lodz started a number of transports of our Jewish fellow citizens to concentration camps. This concerned more than 80,000 inhabitants, of whom the vast majority did not survive and never returned to their homes. I would like to address you with a request that we honor these fellow citizens with a moment of silence. Perhaps this memento can be a kind of challenge to mutual respect and decency even when discussing the subject of today's meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-000-000.u4	Thank you and please rise. [[The present rise.]] Thank you. I called this meeting pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure, at the request of 62 Members. The invitation was given to you on Monday 9 October of this year through the parliamentary clubs and at the same time distributed on Tuesday 10 October of this year. Whereas for technical reasons The Chamber of Deputies cannot act in the Chamber of Deputies number 4, we should first decide on the motion for a resolution on the detailed rules of the Chamber of Deputies' meeting at the 61st meeting. This proposal has been delivered to you as House document 6750 and has also been distributed to you here in the hall. We will therefore proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution before you, which is a resolution laying down more detailed rules for the sitting of the Chamber of Deputies at the 61st meeting. I ask that the number of Members present be determined. [[It's happening.]] The number of Members present is 156, and the vote is 79. Now I ask those who agree to the motion for a resolution to raise their hand. [[The votes add up.]] I'll ask who's against it. I don't see anybody, so I'm saying no one's gonna vote against anybody. I'm asking for a result. I'm saying that in vote number two, 156 were present, 156 were present, no one was. This proposal was adopted and we therefore agreed with the resolution. [[13.20 hours]] And now we will proceed to the designation of the verifiers of this meeting. I suggest we designate Mrs Gabriela Pecková and Mrs Marta Semelová. I'll ask if there's another suggestion. It's not like that. We will take the vote. I ask all Members to remain in their seats. Once again, I would like to ask you to identify the number of Members in the Chamber. Please raise your hands. [[There's a census going on.]] The number of persons present for this vote is 158, the quota is 80. I ask who is in favour of identifying Mrs Pecková and Mrs Semelová's verifiers. [[There's a vote count going on.]] Who's against it? There's no one against it, so please count the votes for it. . [[Countdown in progress]] In this number three vote, 158 were present, for 158, against no one. I note that we have designated Ms Pecková and Mrs Semelová as the verifiers for the 61st meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Mr Adam Vojtěch - health reasons, Mrs Bebarová Rujbrová - foreign travel, Mr Gabrhel - health reasons, Mrs Golasowská - without a reason, Mr Grebeníček - personal reasons, Mr Heger from 16.30 to 23.45 working reasons, Mr Horáček - working reasons, Mr Skalický - working reasons, Mrs Kailová - medical reasons, Mr Kostřica - working reasons, Mr Lobkowicz - working reasons, Mrs Nováková - working reasons, Mr Novotný - working reasons, Mr Pavera - working reasons, Mr Rykala - working reasons, Mr Rykala - medical reasons, Mr Skacký - working reasons, Mr Urban - without giving reason, Mr Vácha - working reasons, Mr Vilímec - working reasons, Mr Vílemec - without giving reason, Member - Volný medical reasons, Mr Zemánek - working Zlatuška, Mr Záček - working grounds, Member - working grounds, Mr Zkamánek - working grounds, Member. Still Mr Rais between 16 and 18 working reasons, Mr Karamazov until 14.30 and Mr Běhounek, together with Mrs Fischerová, apologize for the late arrival due to the impenetrable D1. [[Laughs in the hall.]] Deputy Prime Minister Bělobrádek apologizes from the members of the government from 15.30 for work reasons, Minister Marksová for work reasons, Minister Pilný - foreign travel and Minister Štech for work reasons. Technically still. Applications for the debate, as some of you have already found, are available at the table on my left hand if the programme is approved. And now we're going to set up the 61st meeting, whose proposal is on the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application, so it is not possible to propose amendment or addition of the agenda, nor can the approved programme be extended. However, before we proceed to the vote, I have here a whole series of applications with priority rights, and as is a good practice, the applicant's representative will be the first to speak and this is the chair of the KSČM MEP's colleague Pavel Kováčik, to whom I will give the floor. After him, I have the application of Minister Havlíček, Minister Zaorálek, Chovanec, Vice-President Filip, Prime Minister Sobotka, Minister Chvojka, Mr Kučera, Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek and Vice-President Bartošek, and we are taking on more. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor. And I beg my fellow Members, for peace in the hall, so that the appellant, or a representative of a group of Members, can justify this meeting. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-000-000.u5	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, my dear government, my colleagues, allow me to begin my brief speech, rather a brief speech, to try to ask you to understand, all of you to whom we, the 62 of us signed under the list of requests to convene this meeting, could cause some difficulty, whether during the campaign or, for example, in the preparation of this meeting, which is taking place for the first time, at least as I remember, in the spare spaces of the Chamber of Deputies and in a highly improvised environment. Nevertheless, I believe that it will be possible to maintain the substance and dignity of this action. I know that many of you may laugh, four days before the elections trying to hold on to materiality and dignity, but still 62 of us have concluded that we need this meeting to take place, because, after having heard in the media the information on the signing of the memorandum on lithium mining in the sovereign territory of the Czech Republic, a storm of views has been raised by citizens who have bombarded us very often with questions and suggestions that it is not possible for a short time before the elections to sign such material without the Chamber of Deputies as the Supreme Legislative Body or as part of the Supreme Legislative Body to express itself on this subject. We have tried to disprove these views to the public by saying that the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, the mandate of this parliamentary term, the mandate of Members and Members lasts until its full expiry, and also until its full expiry, we are not only able but also willing to fulfil this mandate. [[13.30 hours]] Let us therefore consider today's meeting as fulfillment of one of the duties of a Member, a Member, a Member's mandate to defend the interests of the Czech Republic and its citizens. At this point, I would like to thank all the Members and Members of those clubs who have concluded that the subject is so serious that it stands to call the Chamber of Deputies and to fulfil the mandate. I would like to thank Members and Members both for the YES movement and for some of the social democracy, and for the earlier Dawn and other successors of Mr Okamura, Mr Babiš, Mr Faltýnek, but also of course I would like to thank Members and Members of the KSČM Club, who, without receiving this befel, were asked to try to ensure as much cooperation as possible when calling this meeting, so we could do so, so that last Monday, the day of the latest possible deadline for submitting the request, we could also give this request to the President. I would also like to say that I thank the staff of the Chamber of Deputies, who did not wait until now, so they were really doing their best to prepare this meeting. They have my deep respect, the whole office, all the officials, including other service facilities or protective services, because these are things that have not yet been tried, and so now it is possible to try out how the Chamber of Deputies can operate under non-standard conditions. But that's not the main motive. I would now briefly read to you from many of the reactions and comments that appear in the press and other media, on social networks. You may understand why the KSČM parliamentary club has tried to do such a thing, and so far it seems that successfully, to convene this meeting so that we can agree on what to do next with the problem. The Memorandum of Understanding on lithium mining and processing in the Czech Republic signed by the State with the company European Metals Holdings, signed by the Minister of Industry and Trade Jiří Havlíček, can only be a small visible part of giant fraud. It's like the tip of an iceberg whose nine tenths are usually underwater. For the Czech public budgets, however, it can have the same devastating impact as the glacier for the Titanic. The memorandum was signed in violation of Act No. 219/2000 Coll., on the property of the Czech Republic and its appearance in legal relations. But the government refused to cancel it last week. If they do not do so within the framework of their supervisory powers towards the government or the Chamber of Deputies, which has just gathered for this reason, then the Australian-American company will be opened up to the opportunity to extract huge money from the Czech state. Even in the volume of several state budgets, meant the Czech Republic. A number of legislation regulates the management of state property. Three of them can be identified as the most important of them from the point of view of the lithium case: Act No. 219/2000 Coll., on the property of the Czech Republic and its appearance in legal relations, Act No. 218/2000 Coll., on budgetary rules, and after all Act No. 201/2002 Coll., on the Office for State Representation in Property Affairs. In point 3 of that so-called Havlíčkův's memorandum was committed to the entry of the Czech Republic into the EMH Cinovec project against the Australian-American company. The Act on the Property of the Czech Republic and its representation in legal relations allows the Minister to conclude contracts for the future, since this, regardless of the name of the memorandum, is a contract for the future, as it does legal acts with similar impact, which is the case with Havlíčkův's memorandum, but it is necessary to approve the exemption in accordance with § 40 of the Act. The State's capital entry takes the form of the purchase of securities. According to Article 12 (2) (a) of the basic Regulation, the Commission has to assess whether the aid is compatible with the internal market and whether the aid is compatible with the internal market. The State may acquire securities only with the prior consent of the Government. It is further stipulated in Section 28 that the State may participate in the business only in the case of companies which are public limited liability companies, namely European Metals Holdings. It is a British equivalent of a limited liability company, as it also bears witness to the abbreviation Ltd. The most important, however, is the form in which it should have been involved in capital entry. According to the information contained in the Ministry of Industry and Trade material, with which this office sought to obtain support for trade unions and employers in tripartite, it was to be a property deposit in the form of transfer of land over lithium deposits in the area of Tinovka. However, any minister, including the Minister of Industry and Trade, under Section 22 of the State Property Act, may sign the transfer of the land only to 200 square metres. I'm sure it isn't. In order to transfer a larger plot of land or land, it needs the prior approval of the Minister of Finance. I'm not gonna read and recite the whole article. I want to allow all the arguments that are here to fall. I just want to prove that this thing is far more tricky than the Minister tried to impose on us and then the entire government. It's also far more tricky than it's trying to suggest to us individual government parties. I didn't, I didn't, I didn't know about it and all that, that's the other guy's thing. There's a bunch of pages here. I won't read them. I just want to conclude my introductory words - because my word is only an introductory one - with the main speech our President of the Central Committee will come - I just want to say that there are several motions for a resolution at the moment. We have prepared for you a motion for a resolution which is very simple and which basically sums up, in addition to the fact that we want the Government's response to the questions that our Members will present during the debate, summarizes the basic approach of the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia to the question of not only the issue of lithium mining, which is now a current case, but in a broader perspective, the view of the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia on how, after a number of things from this circle have already been irreversibly staggered, to preserve the remaining national wealth that remains for future generations or for the generation of our children and our children. So we want the memorandum to be null and void, given the uncertainty of the subject of the memorandum, that is null and void from the very beginning. It's null and void for two reasons - I'm not going to discuss it any more. President Filip will discuss in detail. But we also want the government, because it is a matter of government, to start immediately, whether it be this government or the next, and this one must start immediately, the next one may follow, the law which, under Article 7 of Constitutional Law No. 1/1993 Coll., Constitution of the Czech Republic, and Article 11 para. 2 that the extraction and processing of lithium, rubidium, tungsten, or other ores and raw materials may only be held by the State and disposed of by undertakings owned by the State, self-governing regions and municipalities. It is the property necessary to ensure the needs of the entire company, the development of the national economy and it is in the public interest. Finally, the last point of our motion for a resolution is that the government should also propose a new law on the so-called law. the end-user benefits for cases where strategic and other raw materials will be processed by private legal entities. The point is that, as before, and now we have a fresh memory of the media-intensive area of water, water management, so that it doesn't turn out as always: that there will be costs for us and somewhere else revenue will be used. We want the situation to change with this step and that the Czech citizens, Czech society, Czech companies, Czech communities and cities should finally benefit from the proceeds of the wealth of the Czech Republic. Colleagues and colleagues, Mrs and gentlemen, I would like to ask at this point that, at some point, we should be able to agree, because there is more to these motions for a resolution, that a resolution should come out of this meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, which will prevent, or at least create conditions to prevent, such a situation that we need to meet again and question some steps again, to worry again that there will be further burglarisation, to further twitching, to another megatunel for what remains in the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention and please support the motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-000-000.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For your information, I have 15 applications with priority rights. That's for you to know when there might be a vote on the agenda. Please the Minister of Industry, the Minister of Foreign Affairs will prepare himself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-000-000.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable citizens of the Czech Republic, I would like to comment on this case, on this completely constructed and artificial case, which has flooded the public space and the media in recent days and which is personally very damaging to me. At this point, I would like to tell you and the citizens of the Czech Republic clearly once again that this is a naughty attack on me, on me governed by the Ministry and social democracy by Mr Babiš, his movement and communists. I would like to reject again and clearly at this point, but also to refute the misinformation and lies that have already appeared in the public and in the media for several days in connection with the topic of potential future lithium extraction in the Czech Republic. The only and real aim of this artificially created case is to scandalise me, social democracy, and to distract Mr Babiš from the real problems of Mr Babiš, whether it is his case the Cape Nest, in which Mr Babiš is criminally prosecuted on suspicion of committing a subsidy fraud, or the decision of the Constitutional Court in Slovakia, which last week decided whether Mr Babiš was a collaborator of the StB or was not. It's disgusting, disgusting, and I firmly believe that everyone who doubted it is looking at the whole lithium theater differently today. It is also characteristic, as Babiš, Filip and Okamura understand in this pseudocause as well. Is that just a coincidence? I don't know. Perhaps it is the preparation for a joint future governance after the upcoming elections. Anyway, this insidious attack and attempts to scandalize me clearly show how close these parties are to each other, they are nothing at all. Lying, ignoring applicable laws, perverting facts and throwing dirt at political opponents. I have tried to approach the issue of lithium and strategic raw materials factually, openly and without clouding the facts all the time since I joined the Minister's office. My only goal has always been, is and will be to defend the interests of our country, the interests of the Czech Republic and its citizens. Unlike Mr. Babiš or the Communists, I have no party press to present his outrageous lies, nonsense and half-truths on a mass scale. What I appreciate, on the other hand, is that unlike Mr. Babiš and his kind, I don't lie. I'm not changing my purposeful mind as I'm right now, and I've been acting completely consistent all along. I use the same factual and factual arguments. In contrast to this, we have been witnessed throughout this disgusting case by the ANO movement as well as the fellow Minister of the Environment of a number of opinional majors, that everyone who follows this whole story must admit that, unfortunately, Mr Brabec is fulfilling - unfortunately - only the role of an improper puppet that his party boss is taking as needed. I respected my colleague Brabec until the outbreak of this case, and I had a collegial relationship with him. But what he has done in recent days is incomprehensible, humanly completely unacceptable to me, and it is hard for me to accept it personally. Let's take a look at the opinional ceremony regarding Mr Brabec's letter of 26 September this year. It is a letter that I received from my colleague in response to my letter, in which I informed him of the intention to close the memorandum, I introduced him to his final text and I invited him to join him with my signature. Today, my colleague Brabec further excuses himself. He claims he didn't write the letter and that his clerk made a mistake. But was it really like this? Didn't the whole supposedly innocent story of the letter from Minister Brabec happen to be any different? From the date of signature, i.e. from 26 September until Wednesday 11 October, Minister Brabec defended his letter and commented on it. For example, on the series Events, comments on October 9th, which was on Czech Television from 22 pm. But he never, ever in those 15 days, publicly said it wasn't his letter, and he wasn't worth the contents of it. Suddenly, on Wednesday, 11 October afternoon, a report appears in the media that a certain official from his ministry accidentally sent the letter, that the Minister did not agree with the text of the letter and that it was all completely different. Why didn't the Minister start saying that on Wednesday afternoon? After 15 days? Only two answers are possible to this question. Either my colleague Brabec has a really big mess in his resort, he doesn't know what his subordinates are doing, and he doesn't know what he's signing. If that were the case - and I really do not believe it - this is an extremely serious message to the citizens of the Czech Republic about how the YES movement wants to manage the state as a company. But just as serious, if not more serious, is the other option. I am convinced that the whole story of the letter from Minister Brabec took place in a completely different way. Let me introduce you to this story briefly, and judge for yourself whether this possibility is more credible or not. Mr. Chairman of the ANO Babiš ANO recorded it in the media, or he learned it directly from Minister Brabec that on 2 October I closed the memorandum on lithium with European Metals Holdings. He said to himself: Well, that could be a great story to cover the case of the Capi Nest or the decision of the Constitutional Court in Slovakia, because the very essence of the problem is almost no one understands, but everyone will understand the simple media slogan "the white-day burglar." If we get the Australian firm involved, no one will doubt that it's a rip-off, that someone here wants to steal the mineral wealth of the state. This is how beautiful the story can be told to the citizens of the Czech Republic. But the problem is with Brabec. Brabec, damn it, sent that Havlíček a letter saying it was the right procedure. Literally: The Memorandum is one of the right steps opening up the space for cooperation in the extraction of lithium ores, the modification of this raw material as well as the location of processing and final production capacities beneficial not only for foreign business entities but also for the Czech Republic. That's totally fucking wrong! We need to somehow remove Brabce from this story, whatever it takes, or it's gonna fall apart like a house of cards. So it was necessary to get a clerk in a hurry to sprinkle ashes on his head and take the blame for the letter. Let's get down on him! That's what Mr. Babiš and his subjects do very well. For example, this shows the example of FAU. We'll promise him something for it, and it'll be okay. Poor Mr. Principal Holý! I really feel very sorry for him. A decent man, a respected geologist, and Minister Brabec made him a scapegoat for his party boss. Anyway, as long as Brabec has nothing to do with the letter, and we can continue to feed this whole pseudocase, preferably until the election. Yes, it's ridiculous and embarrassing at the same time. It shows how far you're willing to go for your boss. [[13.50 hours]] Another idea of Mr. Babiš and the Communists was to link the lithium case to the OKD case at all costs. That'll sell well! No one understands, but we need to get Bakala involved. That's why my colleagues invented this whole intertwined man and their ties that they want to fool the citizens of our country and stand in the way of the enemy of the state of Bakal. Of course, that'll give the story a good deal of credit. But these, ladies and gentlemen, are the aesthetic methods, which, it seems, are no stranger to Agent Bureš. You guys make me want to throw up. [[A round of applause for some Members and banging on the bench in the hall, especially from the social democracies.]] The shareholder structure of Geomet and EMH parent company is available on Geomet's website, so it makes no sense to repeat it here again. The alleged connection with Mr. Bakala has not been confirmed. It's just another bunch of nonsense and fables that the Communists and their friend Babiš are trying to confuse us and all the citizens of our country. The alleged connection sounds exactly like if I said that my grandmother went to see the stork farm with the kids, and someone might assume that she's connected to her fortune. Ridiculous, gentlemen, really ridiculous. What is important to this story is the facts and laws of our country, the Czech Republic. Because if we strictly stick to the facts and what the laws in force tell us, this whole fictional story will look completely different. So what was the real story? We need to look into our history and summarize the facts. Since the early 1990s, the state has completely resigned to systematic exploration of mineral resources in our territory. That's a simple fact, and everyone will confirm it. Likewise, in recent years he has disposed of all his mining activities, former mining companies either ceased or transformed, or privatised. The state is basically left with only uranium mining on Lower Corner, I note, for understandable reasons that have recently been completed. The state-owned company Diamo is therefore dedicated and will focus mainly on eliminating the consequences of former mining activities in the future. Thus, the state in the past has abandoned its exploration of mineral wealth, its potential in terms of strategic and today's perspective of promising raw materials, and it still does not have enough detailed information. At the same time, the state has never defined its interest anywhere to change this, or even to try again to carry out some mining activity. The second and absolutely crucial moment of this whole case is the issue of survey licenses by Geomet s.r.o., to all four research territories on Cínovec. I would remind you that the Ministry of the Environment issues a survey licence every time after asking about the MIT whether the project is in line with the current raw material policy of the Czech Republic. I have noted a statement from my colleague Brabec that we should have changed the raw materials policy. Yes, I agree with that, I'm sure that's true, but no one can blame the current Minister Jiří Havlíček. The first Czech raw material policy was approved by the Government in December 1999. However, this document did not contain passages about strategic raw materials, there is no comma about lithium and other interesting minerals from today's point of view. There's been a lot of experiments since then. I can name for example. In 2011, Minister Kocourek, in 2012, Minister Kuba tried to change raw materials policy, but there was always a solution to the problem with the environmental limits of brown coal mining in northern Bohemia, and so all these attempts unfortunately failed. The problem was solved only by the current government, when the decision on limits separated from the forthcoming new raw material policy, which was finally taken into account by the government on 3 February last year, and after the SEA process finally approved on 14 June this year. I note that until this point, raw material policy was still in force in 1999, where there was no comma on lithium or other strategic raw materials. As far as reconnaissance licences are concerned. Research licences were issued or extended by the Ministry of the Environment between 2010 and 2017. The first licence for the Tinovec 1 bearing was issued by the Ministry of Environment 20. 7. 2010 was extended by 10. 7. 2014. The second licence for the Tinovec 2 bearing was issued on 24 November 2011, extended 31. 8. 2015. Third on the bearing Tinovec 3 then on 23 September 2016. And the fourth one on the Tinovec 4 bearing, then on April 18th of this year. Here, let me stop for a moment. I informed you about this at the press conference that preceded this House meeting. Minister Brabec argued to the media that this was a standard process that the Ministry of the Environment could not have acted differently. I would like to say clearly at this point that the Ministry of the Environment under Mr Brabc could and should have done otherwise. The Ministry of the Environment has an obligation under the Geological Act, namely § 4a para. 3, notify the receipt of an application for the establishment of an exploratory territory in the Commercial Bulletin, where it must be published for 30 days in order to be able to submit a possible competitive request. In the case of the Tinovec 1 bearing, i.e. in 2010, the Ministry of Environment did so. But why didn't the Ministry also do that in the case of tinovec 2, 3 and 4 bearings? It is evident that on all four bearings were in the past carried out for state money exploration wells, so it was by law the obligation of the Ministry of the Environment to publish these intentions in the Commercial Bulletin. I ask, then, why did the Ministry of the Environment and Minister Brabec allow such a non-discriminatory method of assigning research licences at all? So someone else can't sign up? E.g. State entity Diamo? If Babiš, Communists and others are screaming today that Havlíček sold Czech lithium to the Australians, then he is clearly lying! The steps taken by the Ministry of the Environment in this matter were absolutely decisive and non-refundable in terms of the laws in force as regards the question which the company may obtain a subsequent mining permit. This is an absolutely crucial moment in this entire disgusting case, and no one is asking at all. But that's what we need to talk about. According to the applicable Mining Act § 24 para. 3 - I quote literally: "The priority in obtaining prior consent to the determination of the period space is the organisation for which the survey of the exclusive bearing has been carried out, i.e. the contracting authority." End of quote. If today thanks to the Ministry of the Environment all four licenses granted are owned by Geomet, respectively. its parent company EMH, which, according to the applicable law, takes precedence over all potential candidates, including the State, to obtain prior consent to the establishment of the period. In addition, Geomet is already the rightful holder of the second stage licence on two parts of the bearing, which is the prior consent to the establishment of the period space. Today, therefore, thanks to the procedure of the Ministry of Environment and Minister Brabec, there is no legal way to really change this situation for the state. I note - without creating a risk of judicial proceedings, disputes or arbitrations that would really lead to the cessation or preservation of the entire project and the risk that a competitive project will be implemented instead of this project, e.g. in Serbia. I mean, granting reconnaissance licenses, that's the step that we should be dealing with here today in the first place. Not that Minister Havlíček is trying to save the situation and get the maximum from the project of potential lithium mining on the Cínovec for the state and the Czech economy. As regards the memorandum between the Ministry of Industry and Trade and EMH and the circumstances of its creation. I'm really sorry, I'm gonna have to drink. It's a long speech. [[It's happening.]] The negotiations with Geomet and its parent company EMH took place since May this year. Their sole aim was to obtain information about the intentions of the use of the Tinovec bearing and the possibilities of possible involvement of the Czech state in this, from the perspective of the valid laws of the Czech Republic, already underway project. We discussed with them the method of adoption of the thesis, which is contained in the new state raw materials policy, that the raw materials used in the Czech Republic should also be processed and used preferably in the Czech Republic. The result of these negotiations was the conclusion of a Ministry Memorandum of Understanding in which these possibilities of possible future cooperation and possible involvement of the Czech state or state-owned undertaking Diamo were described. Nothing more, nothing less. [[14.00 hours]] I insist that the memorandum is neither a contract nor an agreement. No rights, obligations or obligations arise from the closed memorandum. The Memorandum shall contain only the declarations and intentions of its participants. It contains typical noncommittal wordings, such as "taking note, " "its intention," willing, " "shares conviction, " and so forth. On the other hand, it does not contain typical features of a contract, such as validity, deadlines, dispute resolution, or a typical contractual language. Only the existing legal framework, i.e. the legal order of the Czech Republic, including contracts for the promotion and protection of investments and a double taxation treaty, is noted in the preamble to the memorandum. The existence of a memorandum on the fact that these contracts exist and the Czech Republic is bound by them does not change anything. I am glad that Czech Television broadcasted the comments of higher education teachers from our universities in Prague, Brno and Olomouc in Wednesday's Events, who all told the Czech public that this document is not legally binding for the Czech Republic. And in this respect, I strongly trust respected experts from the departments of international law of our universities. I'm sure many of you here will want to present other so-called legal opinions that will try to convince us otherwise. But these are processed on a political order, and I don't want anything to do with these assessments. For me, the expression of respected and mainly independent university educators is crucial. And just for your information, I add that, of course, the memorandum was prepared by our lawyers specialists on international law and the entire course of preparation of this memorandum was consulted with experts from the Ministry of Finance, specifically from the Department of International Legal Services, the Department of International Arbitration and Investment Protection. Why was this memorandum not discussed in the government? The answer is simple. Because it is typically a deposit memorandum, which does not fall under the Government's directive on the negotiation of international contracts. After all, Minister Brabec, who wrote to me on 26 September, also confirms in his letter the assertive nature of the memorandum: "The text concerns mainly the extraction and processing of minerals and subsequent industrial production, i.e. the competence of the Ministry of Industry and Trade. Therefore, I do not believe that the Ministry should be a signatory of this Memorandum." These are the words of Richard Brabec, which he claims he never wrote to me today. Let everyone make their own judgment. You will not find a single word in this key letter, a single mention that I should not sign this document. You will not find a single mention of the fact that the First Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of the Environment, at the same time the Vice-President of the ANO movement, called for the memorandum to be approved by the Government. And you will certainly find nothing there about what Mr Babiš claims in his letter that this is a scandalous and completely disadvantageous memorandum for the Czech Republic. Hypocrisy, hypocrisy, lies. That's all this case is really about. Why has the similar memorandum not been concluded with other holders of exploratory licences? This is also one of the questions that appear in public space to prove the crime of Minister Havlíček. Then what is it? It's simple. If Mr Babiš were interested in a matter of fact and not only politically, he would know, or could perhaps be taught by Minister Brabec, that the other deposits that are in this locality or in the Slavkov Forest are small in terms of lithium content and therefore with very little or almost no national economic significance. In addition, Mr Janeček cínoveckýý deponie has already been through the entire authorisation process and has issued a rightful mining permit. At this stage, the state can demand entry into their project, hardly. On the other hand, the Tinovec bearing, on which an intensive geological survey has been going on for many years, can be very important for the Czech economy from the point of view of the state. That is why it is necessary for us to deal with the holders of exploratory licences on this bearing when the State has already admitted their extradition to a private entity in the past. If the extraction itself is profitable and if the project ever reaches this stage, it will show the final feasibility study, which the holder of the survey licences will have completed in a year. To sum it up. The conclusion of the memorandum is, in the words of Minister Brabec, who, although never said it, wrote it to me, the right step to get back into the game. What form and when, it is, of course, up to the future government or governments. The governments that will come after her. However, this memorandum does not oblige us to do anything. And I want to stress that again. The fact that all my actions so far are aimed at strengthening the state's role in the exploration and extraction of strategic and other resources for the state of potentially interesting raw materials is also evidenced by the material that the government unanimously approved at its meeting last Wednesday. This material, which I have prepared with my colleagues for several months, brings after 27 years the state's disinterest a revolutionary change in its approach to its own mineral wealth and gives it space to map its strategic and prospective raw materials in detail, assess their economic potential, and then decide freely whether to acquire them alone or to leave this work to private companies. No one's ever made that move in the past. And it clearly shows that from the very beginning, I have defended the interests of the state and not any private companies. Ladies and gentlemen, in my performance, I have tried to describe in detail all the circumstances related to the potential lithium mining on tin. Once again, the facts of the whole story are crucial, not an artificially engineered ballast that someone wants to use just before the election. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable citizens of the Czech Republic, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-000-000.u8	Thank you, Minister. I ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs, after him the Minister of the Interior, after him Vice-President Filip.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-000-000.u9	Thank you. Hello, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies I'd like to respond. In his speech, Mr Kováčik said that the memoranda were being transferred. So let me start by saying that the memorandum signed between the Ministry of Industry and Australian Metals Holdings does not transfer any land. And I'm telling you this with absolute certainty. I almost wonder where similar courts are born, which are inaccurate when I say it gently. I probably suspect because I know that there is an analytical material of the Ministry of Industry in which all possible State procedures and advantages and disadvantages were considered, if the State tries to engage in the processing and other actions around lithium. So probably Mr. Kováčik got his hands on some material that was never approved and that only processed the possibilities. That's all. I'm saying this because I'm asking myself where it's coming from. And it is absolutely crucial, because Mr Kováčik here will say: the land is transferred through the memorandum...
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-000-000.u10	I ask the rapporteur to refrain from making comments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-000-000.u11	And then he says he'd like the memorandum to be zero. Such an argument resembles a Munich treaty. The Memorandum needs to be made zero. And I ask him, "What are we going to achieve?" If the memorandum was signed to catch up on time and wanted the State to create the conditions for lithium processing and the production chain to remain in the Czech Republic, then what do we really gain with this zeroity? That's what I'm asking. Look, who wanted to be interested in lithium - because I feel that 14 days from this day forward, lithium will no longer be interested - but who wanted to be interested in lithium could be interested in lithium on June 14, when the raw material concept was discussed in the government. And who was particularly interested in lithium had the opportunity on July 17th, when tripartite took place, which was attended by representatives of government, employers, employees. And there was lithium on the program. [[14.10 hours]] It is quite clear that the Minister of Industry was based on this very tripartite where even the debate on lithium took place relatively very calmly, because there was real facts on the table compared to what I see in the media, and above all, that all participants were aware that it was very difficult to estimate how it would be with lithium in the Czech Republic, and that we would know this only sometime next October, when a feasibility study will be prepared, which will answer questions about how to effectively benefit lithium in the Czech Republic, whether it would make sense in terms of yield, whether it would make sense ecologically, whether it would be environmentally accessible at all. And by October next year, my friends, we really won't know. There's a lot of risks there. That is why it was so difficult to enter this business, to evaluate how lithium will be moving, whose price is currently falling on world markets, which has quite a large number of skilled miners from Australia, Chile, China and the like, who benefit from lithium in far more favourable conditions from brine, which is three times less costly than mining from ore, as is the case in the Czech Republic. And then the main questions are that no one really knows where lithium is going tomorrow, where the car industry is going, these are all the risks that it has to do with it. And that's why it's unclear how the feasibility study ends. But that doesn't prevent us from discussing this passionate distribution of something that still runs in the woods. First of all, on July 17, the tripartite that dealt with this in detail reached a clear conclusion that no one questioned and was available to all of you. You could have met him in detail. And that conclusion was clear that the state had to move quickly, that it had to follow the law and that everything had to be done to allow space in the case of lithium and to take steps to keep the treatment of lithium and the production chain in the Czech Republic. That was actually the assignment that came from the tripartite. This is why the government has recently discussed material that is roughly called the protection of the economic interests of the Czech Republic in the matter of strategic, superstrategic and critical raw materials. And that's where you'll find all the listed ones in the world today due to new technologies, from zirconium, cobalt, but also phosphate, coking coal, uranium, and I don't know what else. This material was initiated by a process where there is an interest in the future for this strategic business to be the state enterprise Diamo, which will have future potential mining under control as well as research activities, and the state - the government will decide whether it can be done or whether it will remain under state control. This is quite a revolutionary change, because in the 1990s, mining in this country was completely privatized and these surveys were left to interested parties who were simply coming. So this was material that was recently received by the government. And because lithium is out of control because the process is already ahead of schedule and started in 2010 with what Minister Havlíček was talking about, a permit that was granted in 2010 and then repeated by the Ministry of the Environment and extended in 2014 to 2016, here is a situation other than cobalt or tungsten, here something has already started according to laws that have been in force in this country since about 1249, when similar rights for prospectors of mining were introduced by King Václav I, who is here somewhere on František, and since then it has been a system that applies not only in our country but everywhere in civilized countries around. Here, in the case of lithium, a permit was issued and, therefore, steps had to be taken on which there was agreement on tripartite in order to insure the state's interests in some way for the future. And the memorandum says only this: on both sides it is noted that there is agreement that the processing should remain in the Czech Republic and also that the production chain that would be made of it if it benefited, which is the question of building it in this country. That's all Minister Havlíček did, I think he deserves more credit for that. However, we are four days before the election and it is great to make it a stick that we will beat each other up. There's only one thing I'd like to draw your attention to. If we want to do it like this as our Furians in the famous Czech theater game, then it may turn out that the legal disputes that arise around it will lead to the fact that the company will, of course, just bail on it here. She has the right to documentation and other things for seven years, so let's just say goodbye to lithium mining. Seems to me like these robbers are really fighting over that bag of supposed gold, but the way they cut themselves, the bag is just a bunch of rotten leaves. And that's the misfortune of this thing. In 14 days it won't interest anyone, but by what we're doing today, maybe we're getting into this trouble, that if there was a chance for North Bohemia to do something with lithium that the state could have a fairly decent benefit from if it all works out, which, I repeat, is still a question, and because the process of processing and manufacturing lithium batteries is crucial to the benefit, which according to the analysis I read, the state could have up to 750 miles. Kroner, that's a lot more than mining, so if we can argue like this and use it as a stick that we're going to beat on the head, it's going to lose. I'm sorry that four days before the election, instead of talking about really important things that will be important after October 21st, we're talking about something that's just useful. Maybe it's because some people don't like topics, or because they need to distract them, but in any case, people don't deserve it. This country doesn't deserve it, because it's a level of debate that can ultimately damage the state in its consequences. So I'm asking you to respect the facts in the debate and to say only things that you have truly verified, otherwise we'll all pay for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-000-000.u12	Thank you. I ask the Minister of the Interior, after him Vice-President Filip, after him Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-000-000.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think that we will be here for a very long time today and that not only the Chamber of Deputies, journalists, but also the public are lost on this matter. We have been in favour of the debate today, so that there is a chance to put some arguments on the table against claims that are false, false, out of context, and we can think of anything for a reason. I am convinced that this is an attempt to release the fog that is supposed to cover and cover some of the problems that have been defined here. And, of course, this aims to discourage some voters who would like to vote for social democracy. I was just texting a guy. His name is Mr. Dalibor. In the end, he said that it was precisely because of this case that he would not give us a vote. That, too, is the reason and purpose of this very case. I can't even call it a pseudo-cause, it's a deliberate case. It seems that social democracy decided a few weeks before the elections to sign a major document that would rob citizens of the Czech Republic. She, my friends, is true but somewhere else. And it is necessary to ask, as colleagues from YES and KSČM ask us, also them. I'd like to ask you a few questions. I would like to know, Minister Brabč, through Mr President, why the research licenses obtained by the incriminating company during the time you were a minister have not been made public. Why didn't Diamo have a chance to sign up? Why didn't you go strictly by the law? If you look at the Czech rule of law and obligations not only for ministries, but also for municipalities, when they want to rent or sell anything, they are obliged to publish the matter on an official record so that anyone else has the right to know about it and may, if necessary, make a claim or raise any objections - why didn't your ministry, Minister, put up a statement on such a fundamental matter, followed by a binding legal act, namely the acquisition of exploratory licenses? We have analyzed this matter and, in our opinion, there has been a violation of the law and we are prepared to file a criminal report in the order of days, on the ground that the law has been violated here before this binding act. I'd be very happy if you could disprove it for us, but I don't know how to disprove it. [[14.20 hours]] We also witnessed the letter last week - not writing, signed - not signing, I stand by it - I do not stand by it. I've only had a brief analysis of how it works at the Ministry of the Interior under the so-called electronic signature, which fully replaces the signature properly. The Minister of the Interior is not presented with more variants. The Minister of the Interior shall sign only one form of the document electronically. Only the signed document is active in the electronic system, no other document, and only the variant that has the Minister's consent is sent to the processor by the Minister. I don't know how it can go to the Ministry of the Environment, but that's how standardized legal procedure works. Dear Minister Brabč, tell us, then, whether the document that has left has been signed electronically, and if so, it is legally binding. If we go deep, the clerk may have misled another ministry, and we can ask for his responsibility. I think that a certain procedure has already been initiated in relation to this official, because he has doubted and it is necessary to ask him why, and whether the confession was really true, or it was again an attempt to cover something up, something to obscure, something to sweep under the carpet. Again, in the standardised circulation of e-mail, the procedure you were talking about, and when the high-ranking officer in the Senate confessed, is simply not possible. It's not. It's not, or there's a huge mess in the Department of the Environment. The Ministry of Environment is the Ministry, which is crucial for the processing of so-called. the large EIA, is an appeal body for the authorities of the delegated state administration in the regions. And I'm asking, what are the relevance of the documents signed by the Ministry? How many lawsuits will there be when the relevance of your documents was contested, Minister? You, before you brought the court to believe that the document was signed by the Minister or not, you should have considered all the risks involved. This is not a children's game, we can't play here about the reputation of the Czech Republic in relation to third parties, it's just not possible. I know there are elections, but there must also be certain boundaries and we must always and above all look at the interest of the Czech Republic, which we represent, and its citizens. You didn't do it from our point of view. I say again, in any village, if the intention is to sell three square meters, it's on the official board. Why wasn't there an intention on the official record to issue a survey license, as prescribed by the law? For you, Mr. Colleague Brabč. Not for your predecessors, but for you. We could talk a long time about how Diamo had sold the excavated rock for 800 thousand crowns in the past to one group, which is said to be running around the market today and offering them for 3 billion, we could ask questions of the type, how is it possible that the Moravian-Silesian Region issued one battery company a permit without addressing the so-called "battery company." EIA, if this battery operation really isn't an environmental burden, but I don't want to put any more pressure on the debate. Colleagues from KSČM I would like to ask if the preparation with the YES movement for today's meeting and those questions are common. I see a lot of common signs here, and it almost feels like it's from a lawyer's workshop from Agrofert. It has the exact same markings. If you look at it and think about it, it's pretty obvious. And I would like to ask President Filip through the President when the KSČM sees this as a huge problem - and I am in favour of answering every question - so that he can tell us why the Governor of the Ústí Region does not see the problem anyway. Because, of course, this thing has been discussed many times, and I think the captains know their country. And why wasn't the commander of the Ústí Region on alert in the past, when it was clear that the Australian company was getting the research license. And the county couldn't have known about it, folks. It seems to me to be a false argument and a false debate with a single aim: to release tons and tons of fog to cover its own problems, to take a few more voters' social democracy to close water on this issue after the elections. We don't want to lock her up. That is, the first thing - a criminal notice will be filed to clarify the matter in relation to the issue of licences on the grounds that it has not been passed under the law and that the cases have not been posted as the law imposes. In addition, we are prepared for social democracy to change laws, raise fees for lithium mining and protect Czech national interests. That is precisely why Minister Havlíček signed what he signed, i.e. the memorandum, in order to prevent the damage caused elsewhere, at the Ministry of the Environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-000-000.u14	Thank you, Home Secretary. Vice-President Filip has the floor, followed by the Prime Minister. Maybe I'll read another one. Then Minister Chvojka, President Kučera, Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek, Vice-President Bartošek, President Mihola and others.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-000-000.u15	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to supplement the introductory words of the President of our parliamentary club. The President of the club said that we asked other political parties and political movements to co-sign this meeting, and it is not an action that may have been invented by someone else. KSČM does not want to fool anyone, and we certainly do not want anyone, any political party, to fool the citizens of the Czech Republic. And I would like to recommend to Minister Havlíček that instead of the structures he lectured here in his own word, he responds to the interpelations that KSČM Members had given him since October last year after the big conference organized by the Academy of Sciences to supply not only lithium but also other strategic raw materials. The fact that you, Minister, answered questions, for example. Jaroslav Borka or other Members, we discussed the fact that we convened a separate conference, an expert conference and a seminar to the Chamber of Deputies in the spring of this year, and I was surprised to find that words fell at that conference, which I could not even believe. Suddenly, we heard that we would be under some sanctions for international arbitration. We've been through some casual letters here - I hope I don't have to remember Minister Bojar, and the result of how it turned out, how we're dealing with arbitrage with Diag Human, maybe I don't need to remind you of that. I judge individual documents, not as they are written, but according to content. So don't be surprised that I don't see a memorandum legally non-binding when your Prime Minister, Minister, says that after 2025 we will be able to deal with the bearing separately. That means, at least according to the Prime Minister's words, this isn't as casual a memorandum as you've been trying to impose on us here. And let me stick to the very substantive nature of the debate. I have asked a few questions, and frankly, here I am saying that I can perhaps thank Geomet for some of the answers, who responded to them immediately by letter to me and published them in my press release. Of course, the fact that the answers cover some of the facts, which I also expected, is perhaps the business secret of the company. But I did not expect it from the government of the Czech Republic, virtually. from the Minister of Industry and Trade, but also from other ministers. You know, it seems strange to me that you who are, forgive me, Eurohujersky in such a way that you would like to transfer some European standards with hair, so suddenly you do not care that a company should only apply for public contracts with a published structure, i.e. with public owners. And you will close the memorandum, forgive me, contrary to the law on the management of the property of the Czech Republic, as imposed by the Czech rule of law, but even with a subsidiary that looks like an Australian company registered in the Virgin Islands and who orders a special company to cover up real owners. You think that's bullshit? On the contrary, we want you to uncover it. If it is said that seven percent of the owners are Czech, the company that actually owns it, then why can't we publish it? Why did they order to cover up the ownership structure? What was that supposed to do? [[14.30 hours]] We're talking about the bearing being 25 years old, and then I'm willing to say exactly what we're thinking about as a KSČM in the material structure. And that company in my communication, which I'm also going to publish here in this opening speech, says that supplies can also be there for a different period of time, for example, for a hundred years, which I assume, because in 23 or 25 years, the bearing cannot be mined. This was not even possible from 1959 to 1970, when it was mined on Cínovec, or from 1970 to 1980 on Cínovec II. But it is not clear why there is so much hype about it, why there is so much cover from your side as the government of the Czech Republic. What's your point? Whether or not you're in the middle of it? Don't be mad at me when I read some of the cottages among those investors, so it may also be that the five people who are employed in that subsidiary that has a house in Australia, and that company lives in the living room - chatting about the possibility of a big investor, some big bank, and maybe some car company. Because that's the point. They have hundreds of thousands of Australian dollars of property, it's not a company that has huge assets. And you're saying he's a strategic partner. What strategic partner do you want to bring here with five people in one living room? [[A round of applause for Members of the KSČM.]] If you really want to fool the citizens of the Czech Republic, don't. We're really not first-class kids. We are adults, some even older than you, and we have been through a lot. And we really don't care what happens to the national wealth. Yes, we believe that it is to benefit a state-owned enterprise or a public-owned enterprise, that is to say, the share of municipalities, the share of the region, the share of the state, because those municipalities will threaten it. If I read you the director's chat, and I dare quote it because Keith Coughlan says he'd like to do it as a surface extraction, but no one in the government wants to discuss it with him until after the election. But the subject isn't closed. That's what he writes to his colleagues. A colleague then posted it to the others in the chat group. This would lead to a substantial reduction in costs. The statements about nationalization, written by Mr Coughlan, are political poses to make it happen, investments overseas to stop. Look, there's a public space here. There aren't just your statements here, our interpelations, and your answers to them. There is also television, radio, newspapers, the Internet, and, among other things, in that public space, these people are discussing quite publicly. And if you think we're gonna get our eyes wiped out again with your answers, you're damn wrong. So stop, Minister Havlíček, or I will cease to respect you immediately. I thought that when you came after Minister Mládek that you would take possession of the things that are somehow suitable and beneficial for the Czech Republic, and that you would make sure that the export of the Czech Republic would increase. So far, you're defending a project that - forgive me - isn't even for a high school student to defend, because even he would find out what's going on with the property structure. And I really thank everyone who sent it to me, and I had, like, 50 e-mails that were publishing me the structure. This means that one company - forgive me - will set up a branch race to pretend to be an Australian mining company that will take over Geomet's shares through the London company. You're saying we won't miss it. What if real owners sell Geomet? You don't even have insurance in that memorandum. You don't have a word about it in that memorandum. And I'm sorry, I'm going to say the fundamental sentence in the memorandum, when it's judged by content as a contract for the future, it's fundamentally vague, and it can't be made into a contract. You know why? Because you're talking about lithium, but you're forgetting-- that's what you said here, so you know that, so it's a deliberate forgetting-- that there's rubidium, that there's tungsten, and that there's, of course, there's tin. Then why are you just talking about this thing? You're gonna leave it for free, the other ores? Are you making fools of us? You really think we're gonna fall for this? This is not a political attack on social democracy. This is just a defense of a citizen of the Czech Republic who, in 27 years of robbery, has been happening here as a big privatization and restitution, does not want to take it anymore. [[A round of applause for Members of the KSČM.]] I remember very well, and because I proposed several times the Šumava National Park Act, and I had a fight with Minister Brabc about it, and I do not agree with the current text of the protection of the natural wealth in the Šumava National Park, that there was a movement, that Šumava is above gold, which prevented gold mining in Kašperské Hora and in Mokrsko and other regions. Why did he stop it? And they weren't living-room companies with five people. That canary company was a real mining company that had branches all over the world. And you're here to tell us that five people are gonna make this place happen? Please, if you're worth anything, you'll simply order the CEO of a state enterprise to present you with what it will cost, because he has, unlike Geomet, real documents from the Czech Geological Service about where the supplies are. So let me say that in this respect, Tinovec, the bearing, from two thirds in the territory of the Czech Republic, is one third in the territory of the Federal Republic of Germany. Also the current owner of the so-called Australian - not even a subsidiary, because she has limited legal personality, she is actually a branch, if you like, of the parent company, and of course the Chinese locality was of great importance. And in the mining process, there was a light power of rich granite, in which other rocks, especially second-rounded granite, Greisens, are found, in addition to a large number of peaks on the Tinware represented mainly by mineral cinvaldite, therefore it is Tinovec, which also contain not very rich tungsten ores, casiterite, tungstenite, and that was mined. For Geomet, a joint-stock company, the survey was carried out by GET, s. r. o. For these mining and exploration works, from which samples were taken and analysed, a total of 70 million tonnes were calculated. sought-after supplies of lithium, tin, tungsten, ores mainly in the south and south-eastern part of the bearing and another 600 million tons so-called. prognosis reserves, or resources, on the whole bearing. Stocks sought from these forecasts differ only by the quantity of research work and by the unit of rock volume. In the case of searched quantities are higher and therefore the probability of deviation from the calculation of stocks is small. For forecasted supplies is due to a smaller density of wells because they didn't do them, they obviously had old maps of Czechoslovak geological survey, and therefore they didn't have to do it, but they make up the costs to the government. As far as history is concerned, I would also remind you that more than 15 million tons of complex ore containing 337 thousand tons of lithium, 23 thousand tons of tin and 1.7 thousand tons of tungsten were calculated on the Tinovec East bearing. Balance sheet stocks account for less than 3 million tons and contain nearly 10,000 tons of lithium, 7,000 tons of tin and a thousand tons of tungsten. The average couture within the entire bearing is 0.23 % lithium, 0,15 % tin and 0,01 % tungsten. From that, you can calculate the value of the bearing. [[14.40 hours]] And you want to wipe our eyes out here and send it into political form. I don't want to send it into political form. I want you to tell the truth and say if you want to entrust it to a foreign company, with stealing from citizens of the Czech Republic for revenue, or if you are able to think at least a little, as one of the poorest countries in Europe previously, Norway, when they found oil and gas deposits and determined that mining would always be given to those companies that would be in common with the state enterprises they set up. Today we are using Norway's funds, which are worldwide, and Norway can do what it wants without its participation in the European Union - forgive me - because it simply has what it wants. But it was about the fact that the supplies were not only based on the constitution of the state and all the citizens, but that they were also, in fact, legally, left in the property. And the Foreign Minister here said there was always a license and a purchase. Can you tell me, for example, how did you set the price for buying out the rubidium contained in the lithium mine? You don't even know that. And you're going to say that somebody politicized it. First, answer honestly what your intention is. Answer honestly what you want to do about it. Or if you wanted to deceive us, then stop it, because it does not deserve a citizen of the Czech Republic to have representatives in politics who constantly lie to him and wipe his eyes out by concluding a contract-no deal with some detachment race that they say is non-binding on the one hand, and on the other hand, we have to wait seven years to get back to it. So please, I'm really not some idiot who would take this. And with me, really, hundreds of people who write to me every day. You think I didn't want to go to Ostrava today for an election meeting? I did. I wanted to go there, but when I saw where you were going, what you wanted to do with it, I had to think about it, and together with the club president, actually cancel the election for all our MPs, for all the candidates, and tell them that they're just gonna sit here today because the mandate lasts, and I'm not gonna get blamed for not doing anything about it. I've heard a beautiful rumor that they're gonna tell me how communists treated uranium ore. Excellent idea. I'm all for it, so let's talk about it. Yes, but I'm not the one who made the decisions here in the past, like they're not the ones who are here. And I'm asking who, knowing what's going on here today, is willing to vote in favour of leaving it to someone - pardonfully - half-wit. Explain why the money went down for the scrap metal. What good is it, where are you going? How is it that in August, Mr Špidla's chief of advisors knew more than the Members knew in your answers? Does that mean you didn't want to write the answers in truth? Where were you headed? You know, I was convinced that there are things in politics that have to be followed, and there are things that every political party simply keeps to itself to choose a strategic direction. But I wasn't ready for you to want to turn me into a dumb schoolboy who wouldn't like it. And I'm not really gonna take it, because I've learned enough about what you promised and what you've done. You don't want to remind me of your pre-election vows to the Social Democrats, but neither do you, the rest of you, how you're gonna deal with it. I've heard a lot of promises, and I knew very well that you wouldn't want to keep some promises because you were closing coalitions that didn't fit in. And I will allow myself to be really relevant, to respond to what Minister Zaorálek said - no, sorry, Mr. Interior Minister. What did our captain say? Do you think there's anything in the County Act that maybe the Regional Council can change the state's raw materials policy? Do you think it's really written in the law of competence so that you can sign here who wants what they want and everyone can do as they please? No, please don't try to pass on your responsibility to someone else. If you can't kidnap her, step back. That's easy. And I believe that if you want to take your responsibility, you yourself will have to declare the memorandum null and void from the very beginning. First of all, whoever signed this for the so-called Australian firm is not entitled to act for the licence holder. And you guys weren't supposed to discuss it the way you're supposed to. You're throwing dirt at yourself here, whether it was more of an environmental minister or more of a Minister of Industry and Trade. I know very well, maybe unlike some in the government, what is Law No. 2/1969 Coll., jurisdictional law. I've studied it well, I know what your duty is and how you answer. And I don't have to be told by the Home Secretary here, how it goes with him at the Ministry, and if it doesn't work like that at the Ministry of the Environment. I even know that Minister Drobil signed the first license. I have to ask who signed the extension. How we got from the so-called Explorer License to get a mining license. Don't be. There's no such thing in the upper law. And please don't say those lines that you really disparage yourself here and make public fools. Why do you think college professors are gonna take that as a done deal? That you said that because you're in a position right now? You can't be serious. Please, I'd like the press to find the chat server and explain to you what the chat room says, how they make fun of you. Is it worth it to make fools in front of several managers of foreign mining companies and non-mining companies that just look like miners? Is it worth it to be a victim of those who want to continue to owe the Czech Republic so that it can't get out of debt? I thought you were serious about this in 2014, if you wanted to delay the Republic. And I was glad that budgets led to the fact that, first, debt did not grow so fast and that it started to decline. The problem was what? That it was at the expense of investment. And I was afraid it would just be another deepening of the situation we're in. This state was not yet in debt when it was established in 1993. His debts were minimal. The state's assets were over CZK 2.5 trillion in production assets. Today, it is sold at 2 trillion crowns of those prices, and our debt is more than 1.6 trillion. So I really can't thank you for the 3.5 trillion debts you made. The motion for a resolution shall be made by the President of the Assembly. In a detailed debate, I will justify it again. I believe that instead of making excuses, you could actually have a substantive discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-000-000.u16	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Allow me to read a brief apology. She apologizes for personal reasons at 14:00, Mrs Věra Kovářová. He will now speak next with priority rights, the Prime Minister. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-000-000.u17	Thank you. Good afternoon, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen. I very much agree with what my previous speaker, President of the KSČM Vojtěch Filip, said about the need to tell the truth, nothing but the truth, that would be very good, especially from this speaking desk. Therefore, in the spirit of this commitment, I would call on President Filip to apologize for the lie he made here in his speech. Of course, there were many inaccuracies in his performances, but I only want to mention one thing. President Filip tried to inspire the appearance here, as if the state did not have access to those bearings until 2022 or 2025, was related in any way to a memorandum signed at the Ministry of Industry and Trade. President Filip knows very well as an expert on the law, after all, he himself said a little while ago that this could not be related in any way to anything that the Minister of Industry and Trade Havlíček could have signed, and it also has nothing to do with the memorandum. Any time constraints arise from decisions taken by another Ministry. The Department of Environment. Not on the basis of a memorandum, but on the basis of individual administrative acts. Under the law. This means that President Filip has tried to mislead not only this Chamber of Deputies, but also the citizens who are watching this public debate, and I would like to call on him to apologize because what he said was false. What he said was a lie. I think he should make a clear statement on this in the next debate. Ladies and gentlemen, let me, therefore, comment on the subject that is being discussed here today and mention the issues which I consider to be really serious in this context. In the 1997 movie Whispering Dog, maybe many of you know it, in this film, the President of the United States faces a sex scandal with a teenage girl two weeks before the election. This, of course, is a big problem for the President, which is why it needs to be distracted. The president's advisors in that movie The Whispering Dog will unleash a fictitious war with Albania to divert attention from this president's scandal. They're gonna make it in that movie. The media in that film is full of a false image of the United States and Albania's war. Of course, the war never happened. They did it in the movie. There was no talk of the President's scandal, there was no talk of his problems, but there was a non-existent war between the United States and Albania. I recommend we all take another look at Dirty Dog again. When you look at the movie, it might remind you of this whole history of lithium, which, of course, did not start writing the moment Minister Havlíček signed the memorandum. That history began to be written much, much, much, much earlier. And I'm definitely gonna get there during my performance. Ladies and gentlemen, they are four days before the election at the moment. At a time when this artificial case of lithium was unleashed and fabbed, there was a few weeks before the election, and Andrej Babiš's politician had a problem at the time. His criminal prosecution was officially initiated in the case of fraud with European subsidies in the case of the Capi Nest. He was criminally prosecuted not only by the chair of the ANO movement Andrej Babišš but also by his first Vice-President, Faltýnek. So the Chairman of the ANO movement has a big problem: it is announced the initiation of his prosecution and there is a need to distract the public. Certainly, from the point of view of the YES movement, it is not advisable to talk until the elections about the fact that a politician who is criminally prosecuted is at the head of the movement, and that even the statutory Vice-President of the movement is also a politician who is criminally prosecuted. In the past, it used to be that when a party or a movement was led by someone who had a problem with the law and was prosecuted, in the past, it used to be in this country that such a politician resigned and dealt with the problem outside of top policy. Since Andrej Babiš has decided to change the rules and rewrite the rules, he does not need to be told that the rules are being rewritten and the rules are changing. As I said, it is necessary to distract the public. [[Screams in the hall: Lithium!]] People and journalists could ask how it is possible that both criminally prosecuted politicians remain at the head of the ANO movement and continue to run for election. And so, honourable Members, the Dog Whisper scenario will be used. The case of lithium will be invented, which will fill the media so as not to talk about Cap's nest and the prosecution of Mr. Andrej Babiš. After a few days, the artificial and completely false case of lithium is suitable for Mr Babiš for another reason. The Slovak Constitutional Court annulled the judgments of the lower courts according to which Mr Babiš was kept in the records of the Communist State Security agents illegally. Again, according to the decision of the Slovak Constitutional Court, Mr Andrej Babiš is registered as State Security Agent Bureš. The Slovak Constitutional Court even stated that the decision of the lower-level court was based on statements of untrustworthy witnesses who were actively involved in the promotion of the Communist regime. As the Slovak Constitutional Court stated, their commitment to objectivity (?) The illegal and immoral regime raises doubts about their credibility. So many, honourable Members, citations of the Constitutional Court of the Slovak Republic. Ambassador Andrej Babiš has a second problem. Maybe even more serious than the first one to be prosecuted. He is a registered agent of communist state security, and the aesthetics who testified in his favor in court to help him will probably be useless for the next hearing in the courts in Slovakia. To sum up and underline, honourable Members, it is the Dog Whisper scenario. It's like you took the film and copied it into Czech reality. No big fantasies, no big creativity, you just use a proven scenario. The goal is simply to draw attention to a completely different place. Therefore, a false attack on the Minister of Industry and Trade Havlíček in connection with lithium mining was designed. A non-binding memorandum was used as an excuse, signed by Minister Havlíček. Legally non-binding memorandum. This meeting is part of the dogwreck script. I hate to say this because I respect this Chamber of Deputies. But honourable Members, please look around you. How dignified the House of Deputies meets a few days before the elections. Based on how strong the arguments were, the extraordinary meeting of the Chamber of Deputies was convened. I will never question the opposition's right to convene an emergency meeting. When I led the opposition in this Chamber of Deputies, I often called an extraordinary meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, if we had the strength to do so. This is an entirely legitimate instrument of opposition parties. They have every right. But the question is whether what's happening here today is an action by independent opposition parties who have decided to defamate the government for its alleged transgressions, or whether it's an action that's just part of the dogwreck script. And when I'm analyzing the previous appearances of opposition representatives, and we've had a speech here by the President of the KSČM MP, Mr Kováčik, and we had a speech here a little while ago by the President of the Communists, Mr Filip, they didn't even talk about the Ministry of the Environment. They didn't talk about the YES movement at all, and they just kept talking about Minister Havlíček and the memorandum. It means it's like it fits into that dog-wreck scenario. I do not understand why Communist leaders, if they want to defy the situation around lithium, will not see to it by 2010 or until the next years, when it was the Ministry of the Environment and the current Minister of the Environment Brabec, who issued all administrative acts concerning lithium. So why are the communists, if there are such righteous angry opposition, only talking about Havlíček, only talking about social democracy and not talking about who has actually made a decision on this matter entirely until now. And that was the Department of the Environment. [[15.00 hours]] So don't be mad at me, honourable Members, I don't think this is a dignified situation for the Chamber of Deputies, these few days before the elections to the Chamber of Deputies. And I also belong to those who would rather be in their territory in South Moravia and would rather speak to voters before the elections than sit here in the Chamber of Deputies on the basis of the script of Mr Andrej Babiš, who simply decided to distract himself from his case, from his pre-election cases, and involved the Communist Party and, of course, involved other Members here in the Chamber of Deputies who were very willing to do so. I don't want to speculate here as my previous speaker, Minister Chovanec, that these are the seeds of the future coalition and cooperation between the Communists, YES and Okamura, but maybe someone might think so, if they look at how this extraordinary meeting of the Chamber of Deputies was designed. So that's it. Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps you will play the role of someone here today who will be a useful helper to Andrej Babiš in his efforts to cover up his own problems. But the whole thing is interesting for another reason, honourable Members. Like I said, let's look at the facts. Let's get real. I have a lot of things for you here that I want to tell you that I want to introduce you to because I feel like you want to know how these things happened, and I'm gonna try to describe these things the way they really did. The Ministry of the Environment has played a major role in determining the research territory for the research of lithium for a private company for seven years. It may surprise you, honourable Members, but it is so. Not the Ministry of Industry, and certainly not Minister Havlíček, who has been there for a few months, but the Ministry of the Environment plays a major role on the basis of valid laws of the Czech Republic. Jiří Havlíček never sat at the Ministry of Environment. At the Ministry of Environment, however, for the last four years the minister from YES sits there, Mr. Richard Brabec sits there. And his ministry has already decided in connection with the survey and the previous opinion on the conquering area. It's already been decided by the Department of the Environment. And it's interesting. Mr. Babiš never criticized it. In four years, Mr Babiš, who has now suddenly become interested in lithium, I have not noticed in four years any media output that Mr Babiš, or then as Minister of Finance and Deputy Prime Minister, would have opened this issue at the government's meeting or criticized Mr Brabec for the decisions that the Ministry of the Environment issued. No one else was criticized because no one else was making any decisions about the matter. That's where the Ministry of Environment has always decided on this matter, no one else. No member of the government had the competence to engage in this matter in any way. Mr. Babiš never criticized it. He never even cared about lithium or other strategic raw materials. He didn't care. He didn't care. If he didn't care, he might be involved. After all, Mr Brabec is Vice-President of his ANO movement, and if President Babiš doesn't care about the lithium situation, he could have used, for example, the ANO leadership meetings to discuss the matter and asked Minister Brabec to take action. But nothing like this has happened in the four years of our government, because all the initiatives that change the conditions relating to the handling of precious minerals have emerged from the Ministry of Industry and Trade. And I'm gonna get to that. You know, the lie of the attack on Minister Havlíček is crucial in that while the Ministry of the Environment led by an ANO movement representative quietly, a private company was quietly swept away by the prospecting of lithium mining, by absolutely specific administrative decisions, Minister Havlíček of Social Democracy was merely trying to ensure that, if lithium mining takes place in the Czech Republic, its processing took place on the territory of the Czech Republic and it had as much positive effect on our economy. If you, honourable Members, want to address lithium at this extraordinary meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, which meets only a few days before the elections to the Chamber of Deputies, you must start where it ran and the whole initial authorisation process is still running. And the whole initial authorisation process, which relates to the future potential lithium extraction in the Czech Republic, ran at the only Ministry, at the Ministry of the Environment. And for the last four years, this ministry has been headed by a party colleague of Mr Babiš, Minister Brabec. If we are debating the use of lithium deposits in the Tinovec area, I think it is necessary to distinguish between individual specific examples and I will still get to that point. You know, I would quite like to comment now on the way in which the decision-making process has been taken so far, because I think that is really very important in the matter. That the problem of lithium didn't fall from above by the fact that Minister Havlíček signed the memorandum, but the whole thing has been solved here on the basis of specific administrative decisions since at least 2010. As for the locality of Tinovec. When it comes to bearing on tin. Tinovec is one of the largest lithium bearings in the world. The forecast supply of ore is 656 million tonnes, i.e. approximately 4% of the world's predicted lithium reserves may be on Cínovec. The forecast of stocks is not exactly the same as the profitable stocks. As a rule, heavy supplies are a little smaller. This bearing, although very significant in terms of volume, I think it is also important to say that it has relatively low lithium content in ore. On average, about two tenths of a percent. In some locations, they are more fortunate in the world because there are deposits with up to ten times higher lithium content. Other supplies directly connected to the Tinovec bearing in the range of about 200 million tons of ore are located in the territory of neighbouring Germany. This is a direct continuation of the primary Tinovec bearing in the territory of the neighbouring state. It is also good to recall that in addition to lithium, the entire primary bearing Tinovec also contains tin, tungsten, jute, niobium, rubidium, cesium and scandium. So far, technology has been developed to extract ore from lithium, tin and tungsten concentrates. As regards the survey of the German part of the Tinovec bearing, Deutsche Lithium, which is a joint venture of SolarWorld and the Canadian company Bacanora Minerals, is carried out. Each of these companies has a share of around 50% in the joint venture. Currently Deutsche Lithium is processing the EIA assessment and preparing an application for a mining permit. If the company obtains a mining permit next year, the mining could be started on the German part of the deposit in the optimal case within two years. Currently, the multinational mining giant Rio Tinto is also working on opening a bearing in Serbia by the Jadar River. The deposits of lithium on this bearing are slightly smaller than in the Czech Republic, but their advantage is greater cavity, because the average lithium content is about seven tenths of a percent. [[15.10 hours]] So let me comment on the current position of the Czech Republic in relation to lithium mining. The current position of the Czech Republic is fundamentally determined by the applicable laws, which is above all the upper law and the geological law, and by the existing legal steps, because the state with the miners is not in a business relationship, but in relation to a given law. The decisions leading to the authorisation of extraction shall take place under administrative law. In short, the previous decisions issued by the Ministry of Environment have predestined Geomet's current legal position in all respects. This means that this legal position was not determined by the memorandum, but it predestined the decisions issued by the Ministry of Environment between 2010 and 2017. Since there's a huge amount of misinformation in our country, I would like to inform you in more detail about the process of the authorisation process as it was going on. We will therefore begin by submitting four requests to the Ministry of the Environment in accordance with the applicable law for the determination of the exploration area for the Tinovec bearing. The request for the establishment of the research territory of Tinovec was submitted on 1 October 2009. The request for the establishment of the research territory of Tinovec II was submitted on 14 February 2011. The request for the establishment of the exploratory territory of Tinovec III was submitted on 21 June 2016. A request for the establishment of the research territory of Tinovec IV was made on 13 February 2017. All requests for the determination of the exploration area for the Tinovec bearing were submitted at the territorial department of the Ministry of Environment, which is located in Ústí nad Labem. This territorial department also assessed all applications and issued relevant decisions on this matter. The first decision to establish the research territory of Cinovec for Geomet was issued by the Department of the Ministry of Environment 20. 7. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the decision that was made in 2010. [[He's showing the document.]] It is published on the headpaper of the Ministry of Environment. It's a decision signed by an official who works at the Ministry of the Environment. The second decision on the establishment of the research territory of Cinovec II for Geomet was issued by the Department of the Ministry of Environment in Ústí nad Labem on 24 November 2011 with effect until 31 July 2014. The third decision on the establishment of the research territory of Cinovec III for Geomet was issued by the Department of the Ministry of Environment on 23 September 2016 with effect from 31 September 2016. 10. 2021. The fourth decision on the determination of the research territory of Cinovec IV for Geomet was issued on 18 April 2017 by the Regional Department of the Ministry of Environment in Ústí nad Labem with effect from 2022. Since the deadlines laid down in the first decisions on the establishment of the exploratory territory proved to be too short to carry out a sufficiently detailed survey, Geomet requested, in accordance with the Act, an extension of the establishment of the exploratory territories of Tinovec. The request was lodged 8. 4. 2014. a Cínovec II, the application was submitted on 18 August 2015. Both applications were re-submitted to the Department of the Ministry of Environment in Ústí nad Labem, which also assessed all applications and issued an appropriate decision on this matter. Decision to extend the validity of the establishment of the research territory of Tinovec for Geomet up to 30. 7. 2019 was issued on 10 July 2014. Decision to extend the validity of the establishment of the research territory of Tinovec II for Geomet until 31. 12. 2020 was issued on 31 August 2015 by the Regional Department of the Ministry of Environment in Ústí nad Labem. Consequently, following the results of the geological survey, Geomet submitted in accordance with Article 24 (2) of the basic Regulation. 2 of the Mining Act the first two requests for prior consent to submit a proposal for the establishment of a period space. All these requests for the determination of the survey area for the Tinovec bearing were submitted at the Regional Department of the Ministry of Environment. The relevant decisions have been issued here again. Ladies and gentlemen, I have quoted in such detail the various decisions of the Ministry of the Environment in order to make it clear how it is decided by us in these matters. Because, of course, the lay public has no idea how the relevant authorisation process is running under the relevant laws. And I think it is necessary to realize - and I have all the decisions that have been made by the Department of the Ministry of the Environment - that all the decisions have been made at the Ministry of the Environment. And if, in the future, there are any arbitrages in connection with mining, not mining, with anything, then what is the basis is the decision taken by the Ministry of the Environment. Until now, the Ministry of Industry and Trade has not issued any decisions concerning authorisation, non-approval of lithium mining, exploration territory, anything else. The memorandum adopted is legally non-binding. It's impossible to rely on any claim. If, in theory, anyone would base their claims on anything, they can only rely on the decision law adopted in administrative proceedings at the Ministry of the Environment. And in the last four years, this ministry was led by Minister Brabec of the ANO movement. So these things in the finals, as a result, fall within his purview. I really do not understand why there is an attack on the memorandum signed by Minister Havlíček, who is not legally binding, whose sole aim was to improve the position of the state and ensure that lithium, when it is already theoretically exploited here in our country, is also processed in order for the Czech Republic to have something of it, so why is there attention and there is an attack and no one is dealing with the real decisions that have been taken at the Ministry of the Environment. So, honourable Members, I think that the debate we are having today on lithium should return to the substance of the matter. As for the memorandum. A memorandum signed by the Minister of Industry and Trade. The Memorandum creates prerequisites for the use of raw materials in our country. It is actually the first example of a strategic change that our government has decided to take. If the projects expressed in the memorandum are implemented, the Czech Republic will move to a far more favourable position in the international division of work, by developing a modern perspective field in the territory of the Czech Republic, which will be related to the production of batteries and which will be related to the processing of lithium. It is precisely the fact that the Ministry of the Environment did not include in its previous consents and decisions the condition of maximum use of lithium in the territory of the Czech Republic, which was not written in any of the decisions of the Ministry of the Environment, that was one of the main reasons for signing the memorandum - just an effort to achieve the processing of lithium in the territory of the Czech Republic. The Ministry of Industry, according to the law of competence, has the possibility to implement such memoranda as well as, after all, every ministry. In government practice, this is a commonly used instrument and the various types of memoranda that are signed by ministries are indeed a large number. [[15.20 hours]] I have asked government legislation to comment on the extent to which the memorandum signed by Minister Havlíček can be binding. I think that this is an essential matter, as those questions have been raised in the debate, and so allow me to introduce you to the opinion of the Legislative Department of the Office of the Government on this matter. One. In general, a memorandum is a statement which contains only the intentions and declarations of its participants. It shall not give rise to any rights or obligations for the parties which have entered into them and shall not contain obligations. Typically non-binding wordings are used for the memorandum, e.g. Takes note, intends, is willing, shares conviction, agrees etc. The non-binding memorandum also does not contain time limits, since the setting of fixed time limits may indicate the obligation to be fulfilled within the time limit. The Memorandum also does not have the prescribed procedure. In view of its non-binding nature, consideration or approval by the Government or Parliament is not required. The above characteristics of the memorandum, of course, distinguish it from a classical contract which, on the contrary, establishes the rights and obligations of the Contracting Parties and which expresses the moment from which the parties are bound by such a contract. Such a contract, here with an international element, therefore also contains typically contractual terms as it must, is entitled to, is obliged, committed, promises. It shall typically contain provisions on dispute resolution and enforcement of such provisions. None of this is included in the above memorandum concluded by the Ministry of Industry and Trade and the company. None of this is contained. I quote from the opinion of the Legislative Department of the Office of the Government. In the memorandum of wording used, they do not have a binding character, even in the English version, which is authentic in this case. The Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Industry and Trade and that company in the field of lithium mining and processing in the Czech Republic contains only the goodwill of the Ministry of Industry and Trade to cooperate in the possible extraction of lithium in the search for future possibilities for its processing. The memorandum also contains a statement that future relations will be governed by the laws and regulations of the Czech Republic, as well as by the treaties by which the Czech Republic is bound. However, these relations must also be governed by the abovementioned legislation and international treaties without being included in the memorandum. The Memorandum merely points to this fact. Therefore, if an investment protection agreement has historically been signed between the Czech Republic and Australia, the memorandum merely states that such an agreement exists. This does not mean that this Treaty would start to exist on the basis of the reference contained in the Memorandum. I would also like to say that the above memorandum does not bind and cannot bind the Czech Republic to decide in any other administrative proceedings which will be held on this matter for the benefit of a particular entity. Therefore, it can be concluded that, in the case of authorisation of any lithium extraction and processing in relation to Geomet, if it is carried out under national law, it is not possible for this company to contradict this practice in any way. For the sake of completeness, I would also like to state that the potential risk could be such a fundamental change in legislation which would be contrary to legitimate expectations. Ladies and gentlemen, I have quoted here the opinion of the Legislative Department of the Office of the Government, but I must also say that the vast majority of the legal authority that has been questioned in the public debate over the past days and weeks, when absurd discussions are being held about whether the memorandum is binding or not, has expressed itself in the sense that the memorandum is not binding. The Memorandum shall not be authentic. However, administrative decisions made on the soil of the Ministry of Environment are binding in view of the wording of the law. So if someone in the lithium case committed to the Czech Republic, it was the Ministry of the Environment, and in no way signed a memorandum at the level of the Ministry of Industry and Trade. The last thing I would like to mention is access to the state's raw materials policy at all. In recent years, really, the state's raw materials policy has not allowed the government to intervene in this matter. I quoted it here, the Ministry of the Environment decided mechanically on the basis of the requests it received and created the legal situation we are in today. I asked Minister Havlíček, after his arrival, that the Ministry of Industry and Trade should start to address the issue of rare minerals in the Czech Republic, including lithium. That was April of this year. I asked Minister Havlíček to analyse, in cooperation with the state undertaking Diamo, whether the state could be more active in the future as regards the exploration of these bearings, because I obtained the impression from publicly available information that the State was unfortunately not active in this matter. I initiated negotiations on the basis of the state-owned company Diamo, based on the geological service that is subject to the Ministry of the Environment, I asked these institutions to look at the possibility of changing the situation in the Czech Republic. That was in the spring of this year. I am very glad that Minister Havlíček took over this matter. And I must say that after a number of years, he was the first Minister of Industry and Trade who didn't close his eyes on the problem. He prepared a strategic document that was recently discussed and approved by the government. This strategic document is groundbreaking. And I would very much like to introduce you, honourable Members, to this document. For the record, I would just like to say that the government did not accept the document on the basis of the calls of the Chamber of Deputies, it did not accept it on the basis of this current case. The document was prepared for the last few months on the basis of the assignment I gave to Minister Havlíček when he joined the Ministry. This document now takes on the role of the state enterprise Diamo. The state-owned company Diamo will be motivated and encouraged by the government to actively participate in the exploration of mineral resources in the Czech Republic if this concerns strategic or superstrategic raw materials. A change in raw material policy is initiated, which should be prepared in the coming months and which should allow it to be a state-owned undertaking, Diamo, if it decides to be the first on the tape to explore sites where these strategic or superstrategic raw materials could be located. This will, of course, require strengthening the economic support of the state-owned undertaking Diamo, but I believe that such an activity is appropriate. Part of this strategic document is to set up future parameters of raw materials policy so that the government has a greater impact on who benefits what in the Czech Republic. This means that we are going against the existing system, which is largely automatic, which can, to a large extent, also look alibistic, simply because it is proceeding on the basis of the Mining Act without examining who is submitting the request, what economic effects will be for the Czech Republic. The government has approved a change in this strategy. There is a task for the Minister of Industry, for the Minister of the Environment, to work very intensively in the coming months to change the state's raw materials policy so as to give clear guarantees and parametric changes that will mean that the State is changing its policy. By this time neither Diamo nor the geology service were actively used by the state. By this time, in my opinion, the potential was wasted here, for example. Diamo has a state enterprise. [[15.30 hours]] From the moment the government prepared these strategic documents, it opens up space for us to systematically and systematically approach the use of mineral resources in the Czech Republic. If further legislative amendments are to be adopted in the next period of the Chamber of Deputies, I think we can use the analysis which has been prepared by Minister Havlíček and which, in my opinion, describe very well the pitfalls of the existing rules of the Mining Act. I think it will be very possible to apply these analyses in the preparation of any other legislation. Likewise, the State has in its hand an instrument which is to set the fees for the mineral earned, and even here, depending on the prices of lithium, either the government or the government, in cooperation with Parliament, can proceed to increase this fee. And that will be a purely political decision that can be taken either by amending the law in the next parliamentary term or, if necessary, by amending the government's regulation under the current Mining Act, as is the case if the existing Mining Act makes it possible. There is an approved rule that says fees change every five years. If Parliament had decided to shorten this deadline, the government could have changed its fees much sooner than in five years. And in my opinion, that would be useful. honourable Members, I have mentioned at least the essential facts concerning the question of lithium mining, respectively. future lithium mining in the Czech Republic. I want to stress that our attention should not only be paid to the authorisation process in this particular matter, but also to the authorisation system, as set up in the upper law in general, so that the government will have a greater impact on these processes in the future on the basis of raw materials policy and on its strategic decisions. I also consider it very important not to forget what was the main thing when it came to signing the memorandum signed by the Minister of Industry and Trade Jiří Havlíček. It is not just about who and when lithium will benefit in the Czech Republic. It is not only about how high we will charge from this extracted lithium, but it is also about the production chain that allows us to process lithium in the Czech Republic. Studies have been published to describe possible economic impacts and benefits for the Czech Republic. It is possible to maximize these profits if the extracted lithium is processed here in the Czech Republic if there are plants that will produce lithium batteries. This means that the government's policy must focus not only on the authorisation process, on the rules of the Mining Act, on setting the amount of fees, but also on achieving the processing of lithium in the Czech Republic, in order to employ our people to keep taxes on this processing in order for the Czech Republic to participate in the entire technological chain. I consider this important, among other things, because of the automotive industry. I think you know that the government has dealt with the Association of the Car Industry and we signed a memorandum with it. This memorandum has not been scandalized, perhaps so far. But in any case, it is a memorandum where the government has agreed with the automotive industry that we will create the conditions for the automotive industry to cope with the major technological changes ahead of it. And it's clear that one of the big challenges is electromobility. And it is clear that if electric cars are to be produced in the future, it would be ideal for us to also produce batteries that can be used in these electric cars. So I'm reminding you of this because it was an essential part of the Ministry of Industry and Trade's efforts to ensure that lithium is not only mined in the Czech Republic, but also processed here. And I would ask not only to narrow the question to mining, but let us also speak very openly about what tools we will use for the processing of lithium here in the Czech Republic so that it has a maximum and positive effect for our citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that all relevant information has been provided both in the speeches of Minister Havlíček and in my speech. If, of course, you would like any further information relevant to this matter, I would like to refer to an important government material called the Report on the need to safeguard the economic interests of the State in the field of the use of critical European Union superstrategic raw materials and some other raw materials. This is a material that has been approved by the government that defines the necessary changes that will take place and will take place in the framework of our raw material policy. I believe that all the necessary additional information available is publicly provided in this material. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-000-000.u18	Thank you, too. Now I will read a few apologies briefly. Mr Matěj Fichtner apologizes for health reasons for today's meeting. He also apologizes for the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies between 15 and 19 o'clock for working reasons, Mr Karel Schwarzenberg. Mr Josef Uhlík also apologizes for the whole day without giving any reason. Furthermore, Mr Ivan Gabal apologizes from today's House meeting from 15.30 to 18.30. She also apologizes to Mrs Helena Válková from 15.30 to 18.30 for work reasons. And now I ask that Minister Jan Chvojka take the floor. I would also like to say that, of course, I respect all the holders of the priority right that they can speak freely about anything in their statements, but I appeal to the speakers who will come to make a real comment. And we're dealing with lithium mining, not other things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-000-000.u19	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Since we're here today to help with the election campaign of communists, anonists, and yet untoned Tomio Okamura, let me also say a few words on the subject of lithium. In my opinion, the lithium case is an artificially created story and is begat by the marketing department of the ANO movement, which read the press release of the Ministry of Industry and Trade on 2 October, where it is informed about the conclusion of the memorandum. A brief quote of this press release issued a few hours after signing the memorandum. "The memorandum expresses the common will of both parties to ensure that in the future the lithium obtained from the Tinovec bearing is further modified and processed to the maximum possible final form on the Czech territory for the benefit of the Czech Republic. We fully respect the right of exploration license granted by the Ministry of the Environment, but our main objective is to ensure that lithium is not only obtained, but above all further processed and finished within the Czech Republic. Therefore, with the rightful holders of exploratory licences, we have already begun talks about this requirement in advance. I am very pleased that EMH respects our position, said after signing the Minister of Industry and Trade Jiří Havlíček." End of literal quote. The clever heads who care about political PR and who can read have decided that it would be precisely the opposite, that they would present it as either the theft in broad daylight, the megatonel of Social Democrats, or OKD number two. Unfortunately, the role of helpers is played by Communists from the left and Okamurův's house from the right. It is to say that, in particular, the Communists have taken up their roles with unprecedented passion. So closely with large capital, they last cooperated in the Bolshevik revolution in Russia, when German capitalists smuggled their leader Lenin from Finland into Russia for the money. I was most impressed with the screams about OKD number two. It was Andrej Babiš, who put it directly in connection with the fall of OKD when he imported the alleged interconnection of companies around OKD and lithium. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, I must say that I really don't like OKD. The way I feel about the subject is that when I have an election campaign and people ask me that question, I answer: I wasn't there at the time. When we lost the majority, I was 16. And I know that this is something that bothers Czech society. And I'm sorry about the 44,000 apartments Mr. Bakala took from us. [[15.40 hours]] So I had nothing to do with OKD. When I heard it was OKD number two, I was very angry with my colleague Havlíček and I tried to see if it was really so whether there was any connection within OKD. Let's get bored for a while and the companies that question Mr. Babiš in his letter, briefly go through and see how scandalous revelations really revealed. European Metals Holdings, with which the memorandum was signed via its (?) British daughter, owns the Czech geological company Geomet, which is interested in extracting lithium on Cínovec. European Metals Holdings is an Australian-British company that is registered on the Australian and London stock exchange and is therefore subject to very strict regulation of both markets. But beware, the ANO guys have found out that several companies and funds hold her shares. One of them is the British company Cadence Minerals, which has 20.38 percent of shares in EMH. But they are also other Stakeholders such as Computershare Company Nominees Ltd., which has 26,47 % or ARMCO Barriers Pty Ltd. with 9,76 % or J P Morgan Nominees Australia Ltd. with 6,55 percent of shares. And, of course, there are other owners, and all of this can be easily traced from public sources. Unfortunately, in his letter, Andrej Babiš focused only on Cadence Minerals, which has a fifth share in EMH. He found it to be a British investment company based in London, which invested in mining projects in Australia, Africa, Mexico and also in the Czech Republic. Let's move on. Pisatel's letter attracted information that Cadence Minerals holds 9.3 percent of its shares in the Canadian mining company Bacanora Minerals. It mainly deals with the acquisition of lithium in northern Mexico and also launches a similar project in Germany in the locality of Zinnwald, i.e. on the German side of Cinovce. Let us stress that the link between Bacanora Minerals and Cadence Minerals makes up a package of 10 percent of the shares. Colleagues and colleagues, I'm sorry. Whoever's a little lost in this now, don't despair. We are finally getting closer to the scandalous revelation, which is why we are sitting here today. Bacanora Minerals, of course, also has shareholders, including the old US Industrial Fund M&G Investment Manager Ltd, which currently holds 10.13 percent of shares in Bacanora, as well as the British investment group BlackRock Investment Management Ltd, which has 9,89 percent of shares there. Do you understand? So this is the scandalous connection to OKD. As indicated in Andrej Babiš's letter, M&G and BlackRock are the same independent foreign investors who took over NWR Holding after Bakal. They're owners of OKD. For those who haven't figured it out yet, let me sum it up. Hurry up and do it again. We have a company called European Metals Holdings, with a 20% stake in Cadence Minerals and a 10% stake in Bacanora Minerals. And at Bacanora Minerals, ten percent of the investors have M&G and BlackRock, who took over the NWR after Bakal, which has 100 percent of the shares in OKD. So, as Lenin mentioned earlier, everything has to do with everything. But seriously, it took me less than an hour to find out that there was no connection between EMH and OKD. All publicly available and very simple. So what are these lies presented to society for? For the sake of what does a nationalist-communist front arise here? Why are the individual parts of this so-called national solidarity so closely coordinating? If EMH is opaque and suspicious, why did Minister Brabec extend her search permit in the Czech Republic several times? Why didn't this national solidarity protest, for example, as early as April 2014, when European Metals Holdings received permission from Mr Brabce to further investigate lithium? That wasn't stealing in broad daylight back then? Didn't they protest back then and talk about stealing in broad daylight? Does anyone understand that? What can I say in conclusion? Just that there's an election campaign and that we have an election in four days. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-000-000.u20	Thank you, Minister. I'll read one apology. Mrs Jelonková's apology has also arrived from today's meeting at 16 o'clock for work reasons. Now it is Mr Kučera's turn, then Mr. Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek, who had to apologize for his work reasons, but agreed with his colleague Mihola to take his place, then Vice-President Bartošek will be prepared. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-000-000.u21	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice-President. Despite the fact that I believe that this electoral hysteria, which was instigated especially by today's criminally prosecuted Andrej Babiš and also the likely agent of StB, is an attempt to divert attention from the absolutely fundamental issue of these elections, which is the preservation of democracy and the pro-Western direction of the Czech Republic, this is, please, the topic of the elections. However, this does not change the situation that the government has completely failed to protect the state's economic interests regarding lithium mining. The mutual blame between the ministries of industry and trade and the environment for who is responsible is a textbook example of this government's inability to manage this country. Unfortunately, this incompetence is not limited to lithium mining. I would like to ask you from this place, where was then Vice Prime Minister Babiš, today the criminally prosecuted Andrej Babiš, at a time when the raw materials policy of the government was being prepared. His great theme at that time was the fees for the earned minerals. Why did he not at that time draw attention to the possibility of lithium mining or to the possibility of losing money from lithium mining? Where was the Vice Prime Minister at that time, today's criminally prosecuted Andrej Babiš? I didn't hear a word of lithium from him, although he expressed a great deal about the fees for the acquired mineral and it was his big subject. Where was Richard Brabec, the Minister of the Environment, at the time when the government's raw materials policy was being prepared and the upper law of today's Vice Prime Minister was being amended? Where was he? He kept quiet and didn't say a word. He didn't say a word of lithium, he didn't notify the Chamber of Deputies that he was extending his license to explore lithium deposits, and he didn't notify the House of Extensions that it would automatically lead to lithium mining. I must say that the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec has failed completely in this case. And today, four days before the election, it makes it a big subject, along with the criminally prosecuted Andrej Babiš. Unfortunately, I also have to say that the Minister of Industry and Trade has failed politically. The fact that he signed the memorandum a few days before the elections without properly discussing it in the Chamber of Deputies to introduce Parliament, that is, the House and the Senate, with the content of the memorandum to have a real political mandate, did not do this. The signing of the memorandum took place a few days before the election, and I take it it's a big political mistake. I would return briefly to that time, which was about two years ago, when the amendment to the Upper Law was being discussed. I would like to draw attention to the fact that at that time I proposed that the levy on the crop should be the main and essential instrument from which the State obtains the money from the acquired mineral, so that this fee should be distributed between the state budget, the municipalities and also the region where the extraction of minerals takes place, so that this money can be used primarily for the development of the region in question. [[15.50 hours]] Indeed, it is not enough that after mining, someone just comes in, "fills" a hole in the ground and locks a steel door. The region in which the mining takes place, today it is the Ústí Region, but of course it concerns all regions, it must feel positively that the mining is taking place, and the money must be positively used for the development of the region. At the time, I suggested that this fee be evenly distributed between these entities, i.e. municipality, county and state. At that time, this amendment, which I tabled together with my colleagues from TOP 09, did not pass. It was voted against by government MEPs, members of the ANO movement, members of the ČSSD and members of the People's Party. Where were these government MPs? Why didn't they notify at this time "Limit mining is coming near here, let's use this money precisely for the development of the Czech Republic, for the development of our region"? They kept silent as government MPs, the ministers kept quiet, the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec, the Minister of Industry and Trade, then Mr Mládek, and the then vice prime minister, today the criminally prosecuted Andrej Babiš. There was a time when we could actually do something about the fee for the mineral that was earned. There was a time when we could actually set charges in a very correct way so that they would benefit the Czech Republic and not just the mining company. This time, thanks to the laxity of the government coalition, the movement YES, the ČSSD and the people's party missed us. As I said before, the proposal was to keep the money mainly in the region affected by mining. Of course, it is not the only condition we say that lithium mining is beneficial for the Czech Republic. The fact that mining money will remain in the form of fees for earned minerals in the Czech Republic is, of course, a condition essential, however another condition is to process lithium, respectively. any ores that will benefit us in the future, but today, of course, it concerns lithium, so that the processing takes place primarily in the Czech Republic, so that this mineral here in our country is evaluated to have added value such that it will have another positive impact on the industry of the Czech Republic, so that the production of the final product brings investment in research, development and education. This is, please nicely, another benefit that should be mining minerals in our country. The fact that it does not, again, falls fully on the decision of this government, because it is the government of the Czech Republic, the government of the movement YES, the ČSSD and KDU-ČSL, which approve the raw materials policy of the government, first and second, approves the amount of fees for the earned mineral. Again, I would like to point out: the amount of fees for earned minerals is approved by the government of the Czech Republic, i.e. ministers from the movement YES, ČSSD and KDU-ČSL. Third condition for the extraction of lithium, respectively. Other ores in the Czech Republic were beneficial for both the state and the region, of course it is a requirement that the protection of the landscape in which the mining takes place is strictly respected. I mean not only nature, but, of course, the landscape itself, so that it does not have a negative impact on it, but rather a positive effect. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact that the government has had a number of instruments in how it has been able to enter the authorisation process of lithium mining in recent years, that it could negotiate and negotiate the establishment of a company with the state's ownership participation is, I think, quite clear today. The fact that the government didn't do it, that it overslept, that four days before the election, it made a big political case, shows really only the incompetence of this government. I would like to mention here, for example. German example of how mining is solved according to the so-called German model. For example, in Rhine-Westphalia, it is common for municipalities in the mining companies to have a share in their mining activities. In such a case, much more financial resources can be put into local budgets than only through the fees for the period space or for the extracted mineral. These are then fundamental revenues for the incomes of these municipalities. And I have to ask again why in this long time the government of the Czech Republic, virtually. responsible ministers, both the Minister of the Environment and the Minister of Industry and the Minister of Finance, did not act. How is that possible? How is it possible that today, in this place, they're offended and wondering what really happened? After all, it only points to their inability to lead this country. Indeed, the Ústí region in which lithium mining will take place is stigmatized in 40 years of communist plundering. It can only allow educated and capable people to live there to increase their standard of living in the long run. So if an old-fashioned mine is to be opened in the Ústí Region, let the region also benefit adequately from it. Our goal, please nicely, should not be to deepen dependence on raw material extraction. It's a trip to Latin America. The Czech Republic has ambitions much higher. We want to be a modern country, a country where successful people will be interested in living. If Krušnohorské lithium can do that, all the better. Ladies and gentlemen, please allow me to introduce you to the resolution that we propose, together with the TOP 09 MEP, at the end of my speech. This motion for a resolution by the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic is as follows and is part of the resolution that I have already put into the system: 1. The Chamber of Deputies notes that the government has failed to protect the economic interests of the Czech Republic regarding strategic mineral resources. 2. The Chamber of Deputies strongly recommends to the future government that it substantially revise raw materials policy and future legislation in such a way that: (a) adequate proceeds from mining have been secured for the Czech Republic; (b) a significant proportion of these revenues remained in the regions affected by the extraction; (c) the best possible protection of landscape and nature has been consistently ensured. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-000-000.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Chairman of the Mihola Club will now perform with priority rights, Mr. Vice-President of the House of Bartošek will be prepared. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-000-000.u23	Good afternoon, esteemed colleagues. There has been a lot of information here, but I'm a little sorry that we need to clarify some of the banal things here in the House of Deputies, for example. it is best to process the raw materials at home and it is best if the mining is carried out exclusively by the Czech state. This is what we learn at the second grade of primary school in geography, mining of mineral resources, the difference between developed and developing countries, and I believe that the primary school has all passed. [[16.00 hours]] But let's get back to the rather blurry nature of the matter. I will quote here the text of Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek, as has already been announced, and I will be very brief. You will certainly remember the vote on the amendment to the amendment to the Mining Act, which we rejected, where we rejected as the only MP's club to fix the fees for raised minerals for five years. Here, I'll take a little gag. If someone had a short memory, then I also have a junk, it's really good to know that the only KDU-ČSL club didn't support this amendment. [[shows]] I do not see all the other clubs, including Michal Kučera, through the President, but also Mr Kučera and Mr TOP 09 supported this amendment. So the only folks didn't support it. One of the insertions is to add that it does not actually correspond to the situation on the mineral market. Do you know how much lithium has increased in the last two years? Double. There's nothing we can do about it. So it really was a lot of nonsense. I'm going back to the text of Vice Prime Minister Whitebread. I therefore hope that you will also report this amendment to your supporters. Here we could already suspect that the amount of fees and their fixation is a trade that the Czech Republic is making with the miners according to their will. We also suggested an increase at the Coalition Council. Even the authors of the amendment, namely Mr Urban and Mr Laudát, and not only them, but also many others knew what they were doing. But we want to be constructive. KDU-ČSL is ready to amend the Mining Act and the Government's regulation on fees for earned minerals so that the Czech Republic is the real owner of mineral wealth and can use it to the benefit of all citizens, not just for the benefit of a few selected individuals. It is therefore the abolition of the five-year fixation for which the amount of fees is fixed by the Government's regulation, and a change in fees to the amount corresponding to world conditions, not to Africans, where bribes by local powerful and cheap labour enable the plundering of natural wealth. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-000-000.u24	I thank Prime Minister Mihol. Good afternoon, honourable Members. We will continue before the start of the debate with the speech of Vice-President Bartošek and Mr Andrej Babiš will be prepared. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-000-000.u25	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, allow me to congratulate you warmly. I would like to congratulate the ANO movement and its President Andrej Babiš on the fact that, after several years in Czech politics, they have been ranked among those so-called standard political parties that they have repeatedly attacked by these intrigues, machinations and actions of Minister Brabec. Because the YES movement did nothing but criticize its surroundings. Basically, we are here to preach morality to a person who has been prosecuted as president of the political movement, as well as the chairman of his club. That means these people are coming in here telling us what the world is supposed to look like. First of all, they should be swept away from their own threshold. It is also interesting that in his open letter to Minister Havlíček, Mr Andrej Babiš accuses a member of the government that he signed a memorandum - and here I quote - without discussion in the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic and without open public debate. Regardless of the questionable nature of the memorandum, allow me to express my amazement here about how suddenly the head of the ANO movement refers to the authority of the Chamber of Deputies, which he repeatedly kicked with the fact that it was a blabbermouth, that it was a waste of time, so suddenly he is suited to the fact that the Chamber of Deputies did not comment on it. So we're supposed to be a hostage in the hands of the Chairman of the ANO movement, that sometimes the House suits him, and her position, and sometimes she can despise her! You should be clear about this within the ANO movement. To be honest, I am not very interested in disputes between social democracy and the ANO movement. Here it must be noted that in the past, several former members, such as social democracy, have taken a short historical excursion without emotions. It's about the fact that the first clearance with the lithium deposit survey started when the environmental ministers were behind the ODS. For a reminder: All Geomet's requests for the determination of the exploration area for the Tinovec bearing were submitted in accordance with the relevant law to the Department of the Ministry of Environment Ústí nad Labem, which also assessed all applications and issued relevant decisions on this matter. The first decision to establish the research territory of Tinovec for Geomet was issued by the territorial department 20. 6. 2010 with effect until 31. 6. 2014. The second decision to establish the research territory of Cinovec II for Geomet was issued by the Regional Department of the Ministry of Environment Ústí nad Labem 24. 11. 2011 with effect until 31. 7. 2014. The third decision to establish the research territory of Cinovec III for Geomet was issued by the Regional Department of the Ministry of Environment Ústí nad Labem 23. 9. Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 of 25 May 2011 implementing Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the list of approved active substances (OJ L 153, 30.4.2004, p. 1). 10. 2021. And the fourth decision on the establishment of the exploratory territory was issued 18. 4. 2017 with effect from 30. 4. 2022. All these four decisions were issued by the Regional Department of the Ministry of Environment in Ústí nad Labem and during this period three ministers took turns at the Ministry of Environment. In the case of the first decision, Minister Pavel Drobil of the ODS was at the time, in the case of the second decision Tomáš Chalupa of the ODS and in the case of the third and fourth decision was Minister Richard Brabec of the ANO movement. I am interested not in political disputes, but in the real problems of the people who inhabit this country. The country that people like ministers Havlíček and Brabec want to distribute to groups with dubious backgrounds and ownership. That is why I am asking: Why did the MIT support the amendment of the Members of Urban and Laudát, which aimed at preventing the government from defending public interest, and that is, the fees must not be increased until five years later? Here I can only ask what the price of lithium was in 2015 and what it is now. What treatment of lithium in the territory of the Czech Republic is to be according to the MIT memorandum, what is to be the result? Dry cleaning only? Or production? Or making a real final product? With which company was this memorandum signed? Whether the government should by chance entrust the FAO with the examination of ownership structures and request synergies from international authorities. I represent the public of the Czech Republic with these questions and I am not just speaking for myself. However, I would like to know the answers to them, both for social democracy and for a representative of the ANO movement, although I doubt that I will have any qualified response from the debate so far. To the so much discussed memorandum, it can be said that this document signed by Minister Havlíček from the point of view of national laws is a piece of paper in quotation marks. No legal standard or generally binding legislation requires or does not foresee its negotiation, even empowers it in it. On its basis, a foreign company has no possibility to seek the establishment of a mining area or a mining licence in a national court. Moreover, the memorandum is largely a collection of general phrases. However, the problem with this document is that the Czech rule of law does not only consist of the Constitution, laws or decrees, but also of the international treaties which Parliament ratified. [[16.10 hours]] One of them is the Agreement on the Promotion and Mutual Protection of Investment between the Czech Republic and Australia, signed in Cambera on 30 September 1993, and there is a significant risk that European Metals Holdings, which, by the way, has its registered office in the British Virgin Islands, will use this document to pressure the future government to decide that the lithium ore will not benefit the state-owned company Diamo and process some Czech company, but that mining is to be entrusted to this very foreign company. The company can thus threaten international arbitration by demanding damages for a failed investment. In doing so, it can be expected that Havlíčkův's memorandum can be interpreted as encouraging investment within the meaning of Article 3. Article 3 contains a declaration on the intention of the participants to discuss and examine the possibilities for future bilateral agreements between the Czech authorities and European Metals Holdings Limited on the framework of future cooperation in the field of lithium, including the possible involvement of the Czech State as a capital participant of the European Metals Holdings Limited Cínovec project. However, the company can argue that on its basis it has spent additional resources that have been thwarted, especially when the memorandum explicitly states in its text an agreement on the promotion and protection of investments. So Minister Havlíček actually issued a blank cheque to the foreign company to blackmail the future Czech government. A check that doesn't warrant the extraction of lithium, but it's kind of a permit for the extortion of mining. But it must also be said that on the aforementioned memorandum, the Minister for the ANO Brabec ANO, when he wrote to Minister Havlíček of 26 September of this year - I quote: I believe that the memorandum is one of the right steps opening up space for cooperation in the extraction of lithium ores, the modification of this raw material and the location of processing and final production capacities beneficial not only for foreign business entities but also for the Czech Republic. And here you have to say the other side. So Minister Brabec officially supported a step that formalized cooperation in such a crucial project with a company based in tax havens. The YES movement can't say it didn't know it had no information, it didn't support it, because if you say so, you're gonna lie. It must also be said that this company registered in tax havens, where we do not know who, apart from their managers with small shares, real owners are, I see this as a risk to the Czech state. There is a risk of draining profits from the natural wealth of all citizens, which could serve, for example, pensions or the construction of motorways. These funds could thus flow to a non-discriminatory tax haven where there is zero tax on the profits of legal entities. There is no doubt that the mining of minerals in our country suffers from several serious defects that make the Czech Republic often the modern Klondajk. The future miner is hoarding the territory and the administrator will provide it with notice from which the owner of the raw material, i.e. the state, has almost nothing, although the mineral wealth is its property. Here, colleagues, I would like to recall the vote that was mentioned here, and this was the vote during the 39th meeting of the House of Commons of 20 January last year on the amendment to the amendment to the Mining Act, where KDU-ČSL rejected as the only club the fixation of fees for earned minerals for five years. I've got a lot of votes here. [[He's showing the stifle.]] You've all supported a five-year fee fixation. Compare that in your own conscience. We have prepared a motion for a resolution for KDU-ČSL, I will make a few points of this and I will read it in a detailed debate. For the reasons set out above, the KDU-ČSL Members' Club submits a motion for a resolution in which the House obliges the Government to submit an amendment to the Mining Act adapted so that - firstly, the State had the option of standardising which raw materials it considers strategic and for which the mining licence belongs only to it. Private companies would then only benefit from these strategic raw materials for payment to the State. Second, so that the level of remuneration rates can be adjusted on the basis of market price developments without limiting the time limit. KDU-ČSL has long stressed that we should implement this natural wealth as much as possible here in the Czech Republic. The most expensive is the final product and thus, for example, electric cars or batteries. In the first step it is necessary to get lithium carbonate, which is the raw material for the production of metallic lithium, which is in batteries, and then turn it into a battery, which, of course, makes the most of it. But if we sell half the product or the raw material, it would, from my point of view, virtually. From an economic point of view, it was a complete disaster for the state. Once lithium is processed after extraction, its price will rise by several orders. The highest value added does not arise in mining but in raw material treatment. There's no way we could have mined, messed up the landscape and taken the final product abroad. The KDU-ČSL, therefore, by its resolution, calls on the government to support the domestic industry to the maximum extent possible in the final processing of mineral mining products, and we have gotten rid of the fact that we are called merely montovné. Secondly, in order that the profit resulting from the extraction is accumulated in the Czech Republic, and thirdly, it changes the investment conditions for the entry of foreign capital in order to create research centres in the Czech Republic, not only for the research and use of lithium, but also for other mineral resources mined on its territory. Last but not least, in the name of KDU-ČSL, I would like to stress the necessity of setting up a state fund for the future so that the proceeds of mineral wealth are placed on a special account and used then on strategic objectives that have long-term importance for the prosperity of the Czech Republic. And finally, one more important piece of information. This extraordinary meeting was held on the initiative of ANO, KSČM and SPD, one movement led by a person suspected of several not only moral failures, and in the second place by parties that are rhetorically and ideologically suspiciously close to extremes - left or right. And the remarkable thing about this is how these two sides understand each other. It is certainly not without interest that this current case already in the spring and summer of this year was exceptionally resonated in the media, which are considered disinformational. That, too, I think, is an important argument that must be made here. Moreover, the paradox is that KSČM, a party whose ideological predecessor allowed us to steal our uranium reserves from Russians at the time, draws attention to the protection of national wealth today. Let this purposeary link YES, KSČM and SPD be a warning to all decent citizens of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-000-000.u26	That was President Bartošek. Now with priority rights, Mr Andrej Babiš and Minister Brabec will prepare. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-000-000.u27	Mr President, fellow Members, I had no idea that I would be honored to conclude this House - now I don't even know if anyone counted whether the name Babiš or lithium had been mentioned more than once. But I think it's a fair fight. It's that Babiš again and again and again, and yet it's as simple as that. I was just asking what a memorandum is. Mr. Havlíček signed it only in English in two copies, and I asked Mr. Havlíček's letter why he signed it. [[shows the documents]] I don't know what we're talking about. And if anybody's talking about it being a government matter -- no, that's another CSSD deal. I asked 16 questions, and I don't know, in the past, when I was Minister of Finance and someone wrote to me, some MP, of course I answered everyone. And instead of writing me back, Mr. Havlíček actually told Minister Brabco that it was about him. And I don't understand what this is about Mr. Brabec. Someone's been trying to tell the public all day that Brabec has a problem. No, Brabec has no problem. [[Smile in the hall.]] Brabec has no problem because the basic question is why Mr. Havlíček signed the memorandum. And I didn't get an answer. I don't understand why he signed a memorandum with this company and what the Czech Republic has to do with this company. After all, Geomet has a research license as well as four other Czech companies. [[16.20 hours]] This company, which is based - now we have just learned - in the British Virgin Islands, has nothing to do with the Czech Republic. It's a mailbox company that never mined lithium. So I was just asking Mr. Havlíček simple questions about why he signed a memorandum with this company. The company never mined, it's a mailbox company, it's still changing owners, shareholders, and it's reported a loss of $8.5 million since its founding. Yeah? So, of course, it's a company that's transparent. I thought Mr. Havlíček would answer me, because I only asked simple questions. And I ask why this mailbox company on its website says: We own 100 percent Tinovec's lithium deposit. - We own 100 percent of the lithium supply. That's what this mailbox company says. And I was just asking Mr. Havlíček why. Why this company? And he didn't answer it. I think it's a very simple question. Why this company and why 17 days before the election? Why? And that's not the only tunnel the CSSD has prepared for us. They've prepared another tunnel, and that's the division of CEZ, where the lucrative part is being prepared, the business and distribution that their friends will buy, that's the same bunch that works here, and of course we, all of us citizens and companies, are left with the production. And then they're going to dictate how much electricity is going to cost. And then it's gonna be the same as the tanning salons. The thousands of billions we lost because of the tanning products. So please wag the dog. So I don't know, Erich Best says 75 percent of the media in the Czech Republic, including the public sector, belongs to the ČSSD. We saw their speeches today. I guess an agency did that. Great speeches, of course, delayed so we wouldn't have time to perform here. I would just like to say that I started to do lithium on July 17th, when Bakalův's Hospodářské noviny - today I actually found out that on the day of the tripartite, this is a great time campaign - 17. 7. 2017 Hospodářské noviny, headline "Lithium will extract Australan, but should stay in the Czech Republic." And where, please? Where? E.on will build a battery plant in Bohemia? Definitely not. I was in Silicon Valley, and he doesn't plan to do that. So, of course, lithium can't stay here, but lithium is supposed to stay in the hands of the Czech state. And what Minister Havlíček did is just the opposite. So I paid attention to the account, and I invited Chief Diam. I was discussing with him, and I asked why Minister Havlíček didn't give it to you. Why didn't you do the research, Mr. Director? From him I learned how much supplies - $87 billion of supplies only lithium. I got six on that account. 8. on TV and I made it clear that it is scandalous, and that if any Australan here are drilling in the country, it is their problem and nowhere should be an obligation that they will benefit lithium. Our companies also drilled oil in Russia, didn't drill anything, and that's their problem, that's the risk of business. So that's how it came to be. In fact, I had no idea that what the Minister of the Czech Government could do without a government - and I repeat again, do not say here that the government has signed it, that it is a matter of government. It's not. It's a matter of the Minister for the CSSD of Mr. Havlíček. Yes? And the government has voted on it, and our ministers have made it clear that we want this memorandum to be terminated. Yes? Because, of course, this memorandum is disadvantageous for us. Maximum disadvantage. And if someone is talking about the raw materials, I would just remind everyone that when I joined the Treasury and looked for resources, I looked at the fees paid by the owners of brown coal and coal companies, which privatized the ČSSD by direct sales for less than a pound, for almost nothing. I suggested a ten-time increase, but there were protests, unionists. Of course, Mr. Mládek was against it, so in the end it only went up twice, so we got 260 million for brown coal and now we're getting about 520. But the fact that 80 billion dividends have gone out of those companies is, of course, only the result of the privatisation. So if anyone's talking about there was no raw material strategy, there was, we sold everything. Straight ahead. ČSSD, the Prime Minister was selling OKD, the Prime Minister was selling Mostecká coal. So that's the result of the privatisation. And the scandalous thing is, they actually forgot to sell lithium to their friends. So now at the last minute, they found out, and that's why, of course, they did the memorandum. So I'm just saying why Minister Havlíček won't answer these questions. I repeat once again that the company, Australian or British virginity, has nothing to do with the Czech Republic. They don't have a license. I don't know about that. Or may Mr. Havlíček say they have some other paper. I mean, that Geomet belongs to a company in the UK, and that quasi-Australian company only has an office in Australia and it's sitting in a whole other place. So it reminds me of actually - and what's important, of course, is that there's a Mr. Havlík sitting there. Mr. Havlík, who went to the same school as Mr. Bakala. Mr. Havlík, who... [[Resurrection and laughter in the hall.]] Well, look at that. He went to the same school as Mr. Bakala. And 20 years, 20 years working with him. And in that letter, I'm asking Mr. Havlíček. Yes? So it's a coincidence? Is that a coincidence? Well, I don't think it's a coincidence that someone working with Mr. Bakala is sitting there. Mr. Pavlík. He says: the rights to lithium will not be taken away from us, says the representative. [[unintelligible]] He's threatening us today. He's already got it on the web. So it's an empty box. And why empty? Well, because, folks, that's the exact same model Mr. Bakala used at the NWR. When he went to the NWR stock exchange, he said he had a huge supply of coal in Poland when he sold the shares to 600, and then they were worth a crown or five. Well, it was a dirty lie. And now he's actually the company, these people we don't even know who he is, they're just clues, so they're doing the same thing. So the only logical explanation for the memorandum is that it's supposed to help this firm enter the stock exchange quickly. Yes? In the first stage to withdraw capital market money, the reduction in mining rates may have been aimed at making the company's future shares more attractive, yes. [[16.30 hours]] So what I did not write in this letter - and I would like to ask Minister Havlíček publicly here through Mr President: The crucial question that Members should ask the Government to answer is whether there is still a publicly unpublished document linked to the EMH company, in which the state is talking about the deposit of land over the bearing. It is precisely this information that is contained in the working document of the State Strategy for the extraction and use of lithium resources from the MIT workshop, which was discussed on the floor of the Government Council for Economic and Social Agreement. Tripartite. It's a náhodička. An article in Bakal's paper, same day tripartite. Yes? So that's what I'd like to know. Because I repeat again, the memorandum wasn't supposed to be signed, and in my opinion, the memorandum isn't valid. It's not valid because there's no relationship between the Australian mailbox. There's no relationship. Geomet is the one who had a research license, and according to the law we inherited here, the preferential right to mining. But so did the companies that examined the gold here. And they tried to mine. But they failed. But no one signed any memorandum with them. And the question is, how much land does Geomet have around Tin Man? These are all things we should know, because this is the last mineral raw material left in the hands of the state, and it would be good not to actually take it away from us. Here's where the different opinions on the memorandum came from. And the Prime Minister and Mr Havlíček have said that the memorandum is not an international treaty, it is a non-binding, voluntary declaration, it does not contain any obligations, rights or other contractual provisions. This attitude, however, not only does it not correspond to the normal perception of the course of things. It is not common for high-level state officials to conclude contractual documents with foreign investors whose content would have no meaning from the outset. So if it's casual, why was he signing it? Simple question. We haven't got an answer for her all day. But above all, it does not properly take into account the Czech Republic's commitments to EMH arising from the Agreement between the Czech Republic and Australia on mutual support and protection of investment from 30. 9. 1993. Even though it specifically refers to her in the memorandum. Then why, if it's casual, why did he sign it at all? Agreement on investment protection, among other things. contains commitments of the Czech Republic to ensure proper and fair treatment of investments by EMH and not to prevent the administration, maintenance, use, use or handling of EHM investments. In relation to the duty of sound and fair treatment of foreign investments, the caselaw of international arbitration tribunals has established that this includes an obligation to protect the legitimate expectations of investors. Legitimate expectations of investors. And what does the investor expect? Well, profit, weight, profit. Yes. In assessing whether an investor has created legitimate expectations that are protected by international law, the documents and declarations of political representatives of the State shall be taken into account. The Memorandum shall contain such a document. The memorandum is addressed to a specific foreign investor and contains, inter alia: specific confirmation of the Czech Republic's willingness as a state from the point of view of international law, i.e. all state institutions, to facilitate investment in mining research, lithium processing by this investor, with this empty box. No one even knows who's behind this. It was signed by the Minister. Collaborate with it in order to maximize the possibility of further treatment of lithium in the Czech Republic. I don't know where, then, who's gonna process it. Absolute nonsense. And to work with it to ensure that all regulatory requirements are met using good practice and to cooperate on the timely resolution of all issues relating to authorisation and regulation. If, in the future, the Czech Republic would take steps that would not be consistent with the above statements, e.g. would decide, e.g. The law of the House that lithium will not be mined in the Czech Republic, or took other steps that would prevent this particular investor from mining lithium in fact and without undisputable reasons, it can be expected that the memorandum will be a document that the EMH will rely on against the Czech Republic in the event of a dispute under the Investment Protection Agreement. So it is clear that the memorandum will thus have a negative impact on the legal liability of the Czech Republic in the above sense, i.e. the Czech Republic's obligation to pay the investor the required compensation in any dispute. Guys, we lost Diag Human in Luxembourg for 14 billion. As Treasury Secretary, I was downloading our assets on the basis of a meaningless letter that someone wrote that they wanted to do business with blood plasma. And here we have a definite basis for someone to attack our budget. And I consider it scandalous and I consider it really out of a big problem, and I can say that we certainly believe that this memorandum is invalid because there is no reason and there was no relationship between the Czech Republic and this Australian company. All I have to do is laugh at the fact that social democracy is constantly talking about wagging a dog and covering it up for some kind of cause. Yes, of course the cases have been kept in place for a long time, and everyone knows about it. But I understand. I understand these cases have to be played. But what's scandalous is how social democracy leaders are actually lying. Some say no one's gonna care 14 days after the election. Well, I'll be interested. And if Mr. Havlíček doesn't answer those questions, I'll actually file a criminal complaint. And I'm going to file and sign it, unlike the criminal reports that were written on me by x different people. Today, of course, I understand, it's before the elections, it's a problem for social democracy, but I understand when Mr. Zaorálek says so. But if the Prime Minister says so, and here he criticizes and moralizes me, the person who cheated and had a black soul in 1996 and was to be expelled from the ČSSD, the man who made 400 billion. the debt, the person who privatized Mostecka with coal for the mouth, Škoda Plzeň for 300 million, the Škoda Transportation today, which is supposedly worth 90 billion to the Číňan, yes, and the person whose friend Březina advised Mrs. Valachová to distribute the money into the sport in the apartment, the social democracy, who forgot to tax church restitution, the person who was advised by one of P Morgan and it cost us 14 billion. on bad loans, yes?, the person who sold OKD below the price and devastated the entire region, who robbed people of 43,000 flats, which Mr.Přikryl into the court file according to the e-mails, the person who was chairman of the party who did not acknowledge the claim against Mr.Altner, the person who signed the first game machine with Hušák in 2003, the person who made billions of damage here. And that our traditional parties sold us almost everything, except for one exception. And that was Minister Grégr. He wasn't a cashier in the CSSD like Mr. Havlíček. And Minister Grégr sold Transgas RWE for 134 billion. Crowns. On 15 May 2002, this money landed in the account of the National Property Fund. That was Prime Minister Zeman and Mr Grégr was Minister of Industry. And Mr. Grégr sold it because of that, respectable pensioners, and now listen well, because it was an attempt, and it was clearly said that the 134 billion. will be used to establish a state pension account. Well, what didn't happen? 15. 7. Prime Minister Špidla came in, that's two months ago, with Mr. Finance Minister Sobotka, and not only didn't they set up the state account, but they spent the money. [[16.40 hours]] So this guy here wants to moralize me. The person who sent, when he sold the damage for 300 million, to his friends for the environmental burden of 11 billion to Škoda Plzeň, who lost the arbitrage for 3.5 billion and 11 billion, this person shouldn't be in politics at all. Man, the only Prime Minister of Europe who doesn't even speak English, the person who at dinner with the Secretary-General of NATO, when there are eight of us, is a disgrace. So this guy moralizes me here and talks about wagging a dog. Puppet of ČEZ, puppet of godfather Pokorný and other agencies. So please, Prime Minister, through Mr President, you really don't say anything about it anymore. Do your balance sheet, what you did as a politician. I did it, I got it on the web. Unlike you, I have cut 400 billion debt, reduced my debt by 83 billion, and I have had an surplus budget, and we have collected 640 billion taxes and extra taxes. That's why we could raise pensions, 56 billion, raise salaries, etc. I've tried from the beginning. Yes, the fees. Here in the lithium case, because Špidla is writing to some citizen that he wants. We'll get ten percent. But by the way, then the 10% turned into 0.7. So please, colleagues in social democracy, really stop lying. I understand you're upset, the preferences, it's not my fault. It would be good for you to stop lying because the basic question about Mr. Havlíček is: why did you sign the memorandum with the company? The Schránkův company. Simple question. And you can't talk your way out of it because you don't have an answer for that. Seventeen days before the election. It's a scandal, it's a robbery, and we're gonna do everything we can to make this memorandum invalid.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-000-000.u28	After the President Babiš, Minister Brabec will appear, the President of the Club Faltýnek will prepare himself. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-000-000.u29	Mr President, colleagues, you know, or hopefully in the last few years that we have worked together in the House, that I am quite a decent person. I think sometimes too much. But after what I've heard here today, after that incredible load of lies and demagogy, I have to say, I've never been here before, and forgive me for saying that word, because I don't normally use it. And if I had any doubts about anything before, I'm sure now that it really had to stand up to my colleagues in social democracy for all of this to be organized so that the memorandum would just be signed, because it had to be clear that the signature would cause such a response. It makes me very sad because it's quite sobering up from some things I didn't expect anyone to ever use humanely, but I still firmly believe that I have a logical explanation for a number of things that have fallen. First of all, allow me, after a number of really outrageous ones, and I also don't like strong words, attacks on the work of the Ministry of the Environment officials, who are obviously trying to distract attention from the nature of the problem - that's what a dog does. Ad absurdum we could say that actually if ANO, as was said here, wanted to cover some so-called. The cases you're talking about, we were probably so powerful in this, that we forced Minister Havlíček to sign the memorandum and to cover it up. If you think about it, it's crazy speculation. I would like to explain, and I think it was easy to explain the role of the Ministry of Environment in the award of the so-called. Exploring licenses, and then I'll get back to other things. First of all, officials of the Ministry of the Environment in the granting of exploratory licenses proceed according to the laws in force in this country, which applies, and it has been here for 25 years. Since 1992, the same laws have been in force, ladies and gentlemen, in this matter. Finally, I was glad that after some excited opening of the debate in the Senate, both the President of the Senate of Štěch and the Prime Minister, and I think it fell today, they recognized that the officials were deciding according to the laws in force in this state. Specifically, it's the geological law and the upper law. The granting of exploratory licences always takes place in the form of an open administrative procedure, in which anyone who fulfils the conditions laid down by law has been able to apply since 1992. These are relatively very simple. Just to remind you that in the case of lithium in those open administrative procedures, there has always been only one interested party since 2010. Colleagues can confirm this because the first licences were issued in 2010, i.e. under the ODS. In this context, it should also be stressed that the state-owned company Diamo, which has also fallen here, has never wanted to engage in a survey on lithium or any other raw material in the past, but also apparently from the Ministry of Industry and Trade, which this company has in the past, has never been forced and pushed to do so. After all, what is better evidence that the state has completely resigned from its mining and exploration activities than the fact that in 2008 Diamo sold a pile on Cínovec, a stone-stone, with land and raw material containing lithium mica - guess for how much. For CZK 860,000. So that's what I think best says, of course, and that's the only thing I agree with Minister Havlíček. And then there's one thing about raw materials policy, where I have the same opinion that Diamo's state enterprise certainly didn't rush into it, until finally under pressure. But back to licensing. If the applicant, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, fulfils the conditions imposed by law, the applicant must be granted or extended. Absolutely fundamental, and that did not come out here - and I am not surprised that it did not, because it certainly does not go to the store for colleagues from social democracy - it is that such a request may not be allowed if there is disagreement with the so-called. State raw materials policy. And here we come to the key role of the MIT in granting reconnaissance licenses. It follows perfectly logically from the division of the competence of the resorts. The Ministry of the Environment, as it follows from the name of the resort, evaluates this permit, i.e. an exploratory licence, especially from the perspective of possible environmental research effects, and the MIT then approves the licence from the perspective of the state's strategy and interest in mineral resources, i.e. also from the point of view of whether the granting of a licence to a private company on that raw material is in the interest of the State. You've heard, dear colleagues, colleagues. If you don't, I'm gonna say it one more time and slowly, 'cause it seems to me from the media, too, that somebody can't read it. In that distribution, the granting of exploratory licenses for 25 years simply works so that the two resorts there have co-accountability, when we assess the environmental impact survey and the Ministry of Industry and Trade evaluates it from the impact point of view, respectively. the effects of so-called State raw materials policies, in other words, take into account the state's strategy on raw materials management. That seems pretty logical to me. That means the boomerang that all social democracy colleagues have been throwing at the Ministry of the Environment, that it's been here for 25 years, world, wondering, upholding the law, those officials, so he's going back to the MIT. Because if someone at the MIT said "the granting of this license is not in line with the state's policy in the field of state strategy in the field of raw materials," that official at the Ministry of the Environment can't issue the permit. But such a message, such disapproval never came. And I've got all these permits here to extend the search licences, and there's always the MIT's opinion that it's in line with a valid state raw material policy. And then I ask you, dear fellow Members, how is it possible that if anyone is saying today: you, Clerk of the Ministry, you actually complied with the law, but you made a mistake, you messed it up because you were supposed to think that it wasn't in accordance with raw materials policy... The clerk at the Ministry of Industry and Trade always asks the Ministry of Industry and Trade, and it confirms that it is in line with raw materials policy. And I've got the certificates here. And it is not formal approval at all, as colleagues from social democracy try to downplay. Indeed, we have written consents and I can quote them. The state raw material policy has so far considered lithium as a commodity whose bearings are underexplored. Therefore, the MIT has always confirmed without reservation the request for the establishment or extension of the exploratory territory, last this spring. [[16.50 hours]] And why do I say that? Because if the MIT didn't want to, and I was already saying here that lithium licences should be granted to some companies or that the state should take precedence, i.e. they preferred, for example, Diamo, they could have already granted this change in the raw materials policy, which he fully has competence, which has also been admitted or communicated by my colleague Havlíček, it is clear, but it didn't until this year. He even talked about why it was like that. Here we are, President Babiš has already talked about this, but we have a very interesting experience with exploration of gold deposits. In the 1990s, the State granted a number of research areas to eight mining companies intending to survey gold deposits in the Czech Republic. I stress, according to the same law as the licenses are now being granted on lithium. Then, in 1999, the State decided that it had no further interest in gold exploration and mining. And what happened? All gold exploration licenses have gradually expired for their owners, and no one is trying to extract gold anymore. And according to the information available, none of these companies have tried to sue any expense or loss of profit on the state, even though they had a research license under the same law, colleagues, they didn't judge anything on that state. But the important difference is that no one in the state signed any memorandum with them. Thus, over the last 25 years, hundreds of oil exploration licences have been issued, natural gas, gold, lithium, all possible minerals under 25 years of the law in force since 1992, and no arbitration has been conducted on these exploration licences, let alone successful. The MIT has therefore had many years in its strategy and has an essential tool in raw materials policy to regulate applications for research on any commodity. But it didn't use it until this year. And I'm not saying it's Minister Havlíček's fault because he actually inherited the raw material policy in some form. But it is certainly the fault in this case of his predecessor and his predecessors, who have not done anything about the raw materials policy since 1999 and now blames the officials of the Ministry of the Environment for following the law. Don't you find that incredible and scandalous? Just really scandalize the officials for following the law that's been in force here for 25 years, and they always ask the other resort concerned if they can do it, if it's in line with politics, he'll approve it, and today somebody's saying it's just wrong. That they've been following the law for 25 years and it's wrong? It seems incredible to me. If I'd heard it from any of those cabins, I probably wouldn't have stopped. But when the Prime Minister of this country says it, when other ministers say it, it seems incredible to me. And it is completely paradoxical, and I have proof that at the last change in raw materials policy, and here Mr Havlíček spoke about it, in June 2017, it was the Ministry of the Environment, weighing - I repeat, the Ministry of the Environment, not the MIT - which pushed the government into the resolution on this material and according to my internal information against the will of MIT experts a number of points and tasks in order to fundamentally improve the state's position and protection of interests in the case of superstrategic raw materials. Therefore, only on the basis of our pressure and resolution did it really come from the Ministry of the Environment, this fact can be easily proved by comparing the documents that the MIT put into eKLEP, called. to the interdepartmental resort and which was finally approved. So it seems normal to you that the Ministry of Industry, which put raw material on the government, still in June 2017, had the four lines about the lithium, only, and talked about the bearings of gravel sand with the same importance as lithium deposits? Does that seem normal to you? And does it seem normal to you that the Minister of the Environment, even though he doesn't have it in his head and he has environmental protection in his mind, was commenting on this raw material policy so that he really takes into account the interests of the state? How can they blame it on the M.E. when the M.E. was doing their job? And that's all proven. And that's all proven. Materials, just government meetings. I can swear that. About your own memorandum, folks, it's been said here and there's a lot more to be said. But if we look back at the way he handled it, it's clear that he was completely unstandard. It was not submitted to the government, although the government is normally discussing similar materials. Minister Havlíček says it was not an obligation. Okay, that's his opinion. But the government is discussing a number of memoranda and possibly lower order materials, and certainly, this crucial memorandum should appear on the government. And now for the letter. The letter from Mr Havlíček did not come to comment on the Ministry of the Environment, where he called on me to co-sign. To comment on the Ministry's opinion, the e-mail came to my secretariat from the Director of the Department of Raw Materials Policy, Mr Kavina, which in itself is very unusual, that the Director of the Policy Department of one Ministry writes to the other minister. And in that e-mail, there was a letter from Mr. Havlíček saying that, in fact, the same day or very quickly, an answer was requested. Since the Ministry did not participate in the memorandum, I refused not only to sign it, but I refused to read it. And I made it clear to my clerk that we would not be involved in the signature, nor in the preparation of it. Because we weren't invited to her. And in that sense, I ordered him to prepare an answer. Unfortunately, unfortunately, and I admit that here, yes, it was just a human error, and I'm also responsible, and the official is very sorry. The clerk made a mistake by mistake, and it is quite easy to explain, and I'm happy to explain it to my colleague Chovanc, and I've already explained it to him, the clerk just accidentally sent the first uncorrected version of the letter I had returned to him before. But even in this first version, it's clearly written that I won't sign the memorandum. The moment the letter started, of course, under the pressure of social democracy, a huge affair, and the letter became confused with the signature of the memorandum, so we got into an absolutely incredible situation that, on the basis of my letter, Mr Havlíček actually says: Well, if you hadn't told me, Minister, or said, it doesn't matter, vice versa, I wouldn't have signed it. That's ridiculous! I mean, this letter, which was normally a regular mail between two ministers, and frankly, it was supposed to be a mail between two heads of department, because the head of the department from the second ministry wrote to us, so obviously I made a big deal out of the clerk, and when he found out about it in the finals, he came by himself and said, "I'm just not gonna... I covered for him in the beginning because I said we wouldn't dissect it. But then he came in and said, yes, I admit I sent the wrong version of the letter. But, folks, the point is, I didn't sign the letter, I didn't sign the memorandum, and I clearly said in that letter why I wouldn't sign the memorandum. But I also assumed that this memorandum would subsequently be presented to the government as in a number of similar cases. But now, unfortunately, I know that the hard work to get support at the last minute, the co-sign of the letter that I finally blocked, wasn't a coincidence, but it was the goal of compromising us by co-signing. And I'm very sorry. If Mr Havlíček is saying something about disappointment, I am disappointed, Mr colleague, through - now I do not know whether I can be disappointed directly or through the President, but I am disappointed directly. I am very disappointed at the game you wanted to bring us into, my colleague, through you, Mr President. Because if you had acted openly, you put that memorandum on the government, that's where everyone could have commented on it. But it's just that you guys really prepped the memorandum pretty badly, and then at the last minute, you were looking for more votes to support it. And I think that's dirty. And somebody had to push a lot to sign the memorandum before the election, and the company in question got an advantage over those who have reconnaissance licenses. Because what happened here: lithium research license has five companies, but the memorandum has only one. And as I said before, gold, oil, gas, various metals, other minerals have tens or hundreds of companies in the last 25 years, but none has a closed memorandum. [[17,00 hours]] I say clearly, my fellow Members, that there has been no rash signature of the memorandum and there is no factual or temporal reason for this. The miner or the company Geomet has a research license, as well as dozens of other companies, but at least four more years will deal with other complex approvals, which will, moreover, only decide whether or not it will be able to benefit at all. Plus, and you all know that, so far, the industrial technology of lithium extraction from lithium isn't clarified at all. So there's at least four years left to extract from the tinovec bearing. And in this context, it is necessary to ask why, for God's sake, four or two weeks before the election, such a major signature will take place? Because the fact that the company has a research license, that's been known for seven years, folks. And I think in this House or in the Senate, there was a special seminar on lithium at which this was informed and it didn't cause any commotion. And the excitement, and quite rightly, caused only the fact that two weeks before the election, the Minister of the Czech Government himself will sign this basic document, which he now claims is not binding at all and that he is completely fine, but the degree of hysteria of his colleagues from social democracy confirms that it is not quite okay. So, colleagues, colleagues, I would like to call on my colleague Havlíček and the other Social Democrats - look for the problem really where it is. And that's in the signature of the memorandum. That's the difference step. Because those research licenses have been hundreds in the last 25 years under the law that all the P.O.D.s have ruled. And don't look for the problem, please, in the Department of Environment officials who are just following a valid law. And I'm glad if the Home Secretary can file a criminal complaint, let the officials check their progress. By the way, those officials are under Mr Mana Deputy for Social Democracy, and it's good - I'm sure he'll be in charge and happy to explain the procedure of those officials. And I have no doubt about the procedure of the officials. I have no doubt he was right. But please don't scandalize the officials for following the law when you have completely wasted, meaningless two weeks before the election, signed such a crucial document. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-000-000.u30	Thank you, Minister of the Environment, Richard Brabco. We will continue with Prime Minister Faltýnek's priority right, President Stanjura will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-000-000.u31	Good afternoon, esteemed colleagues. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I have been listening carefully to the debate all this time, and I have not understood - both Minister Havlíček and the Prime Minister have actually been saying that this memorandum is actually noncommittal, nothing, so why was it signed? No one's answered that question yet. The fact that Bison & Rose has written two nice speeches to both the Minister and the Prime Minister is fine, but the basic question, Minister through the President, has still not been answered here. And I hope, no matter how long we've been here today, that for at least one basic question, why the memorandum, which you think is useless, why it was actually signed. I am sorry, I am neither a geologist nor a miner, I am stupid, we in Haná say stupid, a farmer and a Member who promised to carry out his mandate in the interests of the citizens of our republic according to his best knowledge and conscience. And people write to me. And they wrote to my colleagues. A kolega of the Soukup who checked out so he wouldn't hold it up today, so I speak partly for Zdeněk Soukup. And they called. And they said, "Please stop the social democracy that is trying to steal one of our last mineral wealth in broad daylight." This is what people write on Facebook, text messages and e-mails. In silence, without consulting the government, the Ministry of Industry and Trade has signed a memorandum that can again - and not for the first time, but hopefully the last time - come very expensive. And somebody else, but not the Czech state, is going to grease their pockets on it. You'll understand that I and my colleagues couldn't just leave it at that. All the more so, that Mr Babiš - and he was already talking about it here today - has drawn attention to the subject since the summer. But like I said, I didn't understand the subject, and I had no idea how much money was being played out here. So I got a little interested. And really 17 days before the elections, the Ministry of Industry signed with the Office of the Government, and therefore the Prime Minister, because the Office of the Prime Minister presents the Prime Minister, as I read in the correspondence, and it has already been said several times, a memorandum that many say can deprive us of the supplies of lithium worth hundreds, maybe thousands of billions, but these are all just estimates. At least, although other opinions have been expressed here, according to many lawyers who have spoken about this, there is a huge risk here, because according to some lawyers, Australian miners at the last minute received from the Minister of Industry, and thus from social democracy a blank check for privatisation of lithium mining under Tinovce. And many experts began to scream logically that in the Czech Republic the biggest asset diversion and privatization of mineral resources had been coming since 1989. And once again, social democracy is behind it, as was the case with OKD. It can simply be said that the MIT signed a memorandum of understanding with Australian society, which thus received a guarantee mandate for the depth extraction of lithium in the North Bohemian Cínovec. Where there are some of the largest lithium reserves in the world. The Prime Minister was talking about it, it's about 3%. And from this money, of course, we could pay pensions to our pensioners or our underfunded education in the future. Interestingly, the Ministry has actually published this memorandum up to the President of the Republic's call. That didn't come out today. It needs to be remembered. And we think that the state should behave with the care of a proper economy and mining should be organized by the state and should have it in its gesture, such as through the state enterprise Diamo, which could possibly create some technological consortium with a foreign company, but under favourable conditions for the Czech state. But the extraction and processing of lithium itself should remain in the hands of the state. It has already been said, Minister Brabec said that our ministers wanted to disable this memorandum from the government, they voted for it, but unfortunately we know how it turned out. This is not a step that has succeeded. Maybe that's why we're meeting here to give a position as the House. Plus, if we look at the memorandum itself, we're going to find a special phrase and structure. It contains, for example, a guarantee from the Ministry of Industry and Trade that lithium mining will not be blocked on Cínovec. This commitment is a public promise, and if there were a change of vision, the Australian consortium could even sue the Czech Republic for a failed investment. But here I am repeating what has been said several times. And of course, it is clear that they do not have to kick into the country, and if the state withdraws from the memorandum and from the contract with the miners, we can lose billions of crowns in possible arbitration. And we already know that here in our country. Specifically, this is the Diag Human case, which in the beginning also looked very innocent. [[17.10 hours]] It is true that the miner must pay 10 per cent of the mining price to the State under the law - but beware, only from the extracted unprocessed ore, whose value is, of course, low. The value is only pure lithium obtained by refining excavated ore at the processing plant and the Czech state will no longer profit from it. However, this was valid until the end of last year. But this has changed suspiciously, too. Yesterday, like some of you, I received an e-mail from Mr. Rovenský from Greenpeace in the Czech Republic, and I would like to read a little bit of this e-mail here. Dear Member, I would like to recommend your attention... and so forth. To our considerable concern this week, my colleagues and I have found that the current rate of remuneration from the acquired minerals corresponds to only 0,7 % of lithium, i.e. seven per cent, its current market prices. Until 1 January this year, when Government Decree No. 98/2016 Sb., at the same time, paid a remuneration rate of 10 %. Therefore, he voluntarily and without any public discussion gave up a significant majority of his share of profit from mining. Lithium is, like other reserved minerals, owned by the state. Under the current disadvantageous conditions for the State, among other things, an inconspicuous remark in the Annex to Government Regulation No. 98/2016 Sb. This provides for a remuneration of CZK 10,692 per tonne from the price of acquired lithium. However, it states in that note that the remuneration is determined on the basis of the pure metal content. The point is that world markets are traded lithium carbonate, which, however, contains only 19 percent of pure lithium. After recounting, the state will pay only seven thousandths of the current and ever-increasing price on international markets, which according to the agency amounts to $14,250 per tonne. Atd. Atd. According to Greenpeace, officials of the Czech Mining Authority and the Ministry of Industry and Trade bear the main responsibility for a disadvantageous adjustment. The Ministry of Industry and Trade was the author of the Government's decree. - So much for short notice from the Greenpeace agency, which, I assume, has passed on all of you. I liked the performance of Milan Chovanec here, who said in his performance, I wrote it to myself that it is definitely the government, or I don't know who he specifically spoke for, ready to raise the fees for the extracted raw materials, after about a year ago the Ministry of Industry actually reduced these fees tenfold de facto. So what's the point? The reason for this is that the Czech state will ideally have some unqualified jobs and a huge environmental burden after about 20 years of mining. Indeed, there is a risk that all profits from lithium and lithium batteries will be made by private companies linked to foreign owners. The enormous effort of social democracy to rush and quickly shift lithium mining under Tinovce into the hands of an Australian holding company is more than alarming. I can't imagine that in a civilized Western country, the government would sign any document with a foreign miner two weeks before the election. Couldn't it wait a few days or weeks? There's one more thing I'd like to touch. When our colleagues - some, of course, not all - drew attention to all of this from social democracy, they embarrassedly admitted outside the record that this was the whole problem and that it should have remained for the next government. But, of course, they kept kicking us in the media, and the machine went full-on. Because they didn't have much to grab on to, so they went to Richard Brabec, the Minister of the Environment, and one of his sentences, which his official accidentally sent. And my colleague Brabec has already talked about it quite extensively. I was quite amused when I read the Senate's thesis, where Radko Martínek, which is, I suppose, a senator for social democracy, probably didn't get the notes from the headquarters of social democracy, or wasn't at the media training because he gave the following sentences - I quote from that record: I would stand up for the Minister of the Environment, virtually. officials even more, because they actually follow the law. In his speech he asked for a change in the Mining Act, which is in the Gesture of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, calling it the theft in broad daylight and finally saying very truthfully, colon, quote: Please note that all the minerals of this country are this state and its citizens. It's not the money the firms are building. How many of these Uhlobarons and others have made billions of it, and now they spend it all over Florida, they go all over the place, and eventually it always ends the same way. In the end, if they rob it all, they're gonna throw it at the neck of the state, and you're gonna end up caring, even though you didn't have much of your own property. I think this, if this affair is of any use, it's for us to think really seriously and make this thing a definite but clear end once. It's just state property. The biggest profit of it will be worth, not any companies that profit from it and take the money to God knows where and God knows what. You can see that we agree, ladies and gentlemen, even with a social democracy politician. I think exactly what he thinks. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-000-000.u32	I thank Mr Jaroslav Faltýnek. Now Mr. Chairman of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura. Mr. Chairman Marek Černoch will be ready. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-000-000.u33	Dear Vice-President, members of the government, colleagues, we are at such an unconventional election meeting. All sides at once. I don't know how this funding board is gonna charge us. [[Laughs of the majority of Members, applause mainly from ČSSD and YES.]] Maybe they could give it to the guys who called it in. But now that we're at that election rally, it would be a shame for opposition politicians not to remind us that the government of the Czechoslovak Party, YES, has been ruling hand in hand for four years, and now four days before the election, it's like they're the biggest opponents. At the same time, they are preparing to rule together after the elections that will be held this week. But since we're here, we can ask questions. My previous speaker mentioned a change in the payment fee for extracted lithium. Down 15 times. This was decided by the government as a whole. In 2016 according to the number in the Collection. So I want to ask all the members of the government at the time how they voted, as their ministries pointed out in the commentary procedure this increase. Today everyone wants to pick it up, and it's the same people who cut it 15 times, hand in hand ČSSD, YES, KDU-ČSL. Hand in hand. I got the e-mail, too. I checked it out. That's right. Of course, we will not find out what minister voted. But I didn't notice any press conference after the government's decision to approve the order, the scandal, the robbery in broad daylight. What is it other than 15 times to cut the fees? And that is pure money that would end up in the Czech state budget. The Social Democrats are demonstrating a logical contradiction here. On the one hand, they say "we have ensured that the mined ore is processed in the Czech Republic by this memorandum" but, at the same time, in the second sentence, they say "this memorandum is non-binding." I think it's either one or the other. He can't pay for both together. If it's casual, we haven't secured anything. If we've secured something, it's not casual. I think it's very clear, simple and logical. My previous speaker said a moment ago - and also note the logic - our ministers wanted to vote to cancel the memorandum, and three sentences later he says: but the abolition of the memorandum will cost us billions. So if I merge both sentences into one sentence, I'll say, our ministers suggested we pay billions. That's not entirely logical either. Instead of asking the basic questions in this context. [[17.20 hours]] How do we really ensure that the extracted ore is processed in the Czech Republic? How do we ensure the reclamation of the territory after the mining is over? How will we ensure that the extraction itself has the least impact on the environment and the citizens of this region? Unfortunately, that's not what we're discussing today, not yesterday, not the day before yesterday, and it should be. Those are serious questions. How much will be paid for the extraction? Where will the ore be processed? How will funds be created for reclamation? And how to choose the least harmful way possible? But it's consistent with this whole week. I think it's a world escape - yesterday the Prime Minister is conducting a demonstration against his own government. [[Glee in the hall.]] I've never seen that before. They still had posters, you all saw it, and they said, "We're protesting what we've been doing here for four years." We've had enough. And let us remember that the Chamber of Deputies is accountable to the government as a whole, not the Minister of Industry or the Minister of the Environment individually, not one coalition party or the other, but the Government as a whole. And I feel like we've been at the government for three hours, either where ministers argue, who's responsible, or maybe at a coalition meeting, where coalition politicians argue, who's responsible. But it's because the election's in four days. I have read the motion for a resolution prepared by the third coalition party, about eight, ten or twelve government tasks. Why not? But they've been in that government for four years. Why haven't they put it in place long ago? When somebody's criticizing the state's raw materials policy, the government as a whole approves here. No individual ministry, no minister. But to give everyone the same - the minister is here. Firstly, I think the Minister of the Czech Government is supposed to sign the documents in the Czech language. One. Secondly, I think that such a document could and should have been discussed by the government as a whole and commissioned the Minister to sign. And thirdly, the license holder is a Czech company and it is not a memorandum with it. In order for something positive to happen to the citizens of the Czech Republic, this is not a task either for this House or for the next House, this is a task for the next government, and we must not forget this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-000-000.u34	Thank you to President Stanjur. Now, Mr Marek Černoch, Mr Kalousek, will be prepared with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-000-000.u35	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, have a good afternoon. It's been said a lot. I don't think it makes sense to repeat it. In the same way, many questions have been asked, but some I think are really important, so I will repeat them. I would definitely like to define myself - I don't shake a dog or anything else. I am not attacking Minister Havlíček or any other ministers. Just from my point of view, and I mean that I speak for our entire parliamentary club, it should be true that mineral wealth is the property of the state, it is the property of our country, it is the property of Czech citizens. And that's how it should stay. Personally, I think signing such a memorandum a few days before the election is unfortunate and it should have been dealt with in the next House, it should have been dealt with by another government coming. It didn't have to happen what happened now. Although, on the other hand, it really is before the election, so it's possible that it would have happened the same way. We ask the same question as our colleague Stanjura, who believes that the processing of raw materials in the Czech Republic should take place, it should be clear how to deal with the reclamation of the landscape after mining, and we think that it is wrong if profits leave outside the Czech Republic and do not stay with us. And that doesn't just apply to lithium. There are many more things, such as water, where for example in Prague, which takes care of water pipes, repairs them, profits go to France. Another example was gold licking in the Central Bohemia Region, where there was a risk that the landscape would remain devastated forever after this mining. We drove to the Central Bohemia Region with members of other parties, we tried to fight it, luckily this is over. Of course, the case is far and far more. I don't want to shout any populist phrases here, rather ask Minister Havlíček what is the legal form of this memorandum at all. Because here from the beginning of this discussion it has been said that there is no legal form, on the other hand, that the memorandum cannot actually be abolished. So the question is, what is the legal form, if this memorandum could be abolished, because I think that might solve the matter. But that's the question. And then one more question. Minister Chvojka here listed companies that belong to the group in some way, and there was information in the media that Arca Capital Pavola Krúpa entered the European Metals Hodings by buying shares as such a watchdog, a company that wants to prevent the second OKD. Is it true or isn't it true? Or what role will this domestic company have in this company? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-000-000.u36	I thank Mr Marek Černoch. And now Prime Minister TOP 09 Miroslav Kalousek has the floor. Minister Pelikán will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-000-000.u37	Thank you for your attention, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. To attract your attention, I will say a sentence that will certainly surprise you. I completely agree with what President Babiš said that Minister Havlíček should not really have signed the memorandum 14 days before the elections. But it is probably exactly the same as when we say that we do not know whether or not Minister Brabec had extended his research license and, in particular, he should not have sent a letter to Minister Havlíček about agreeing with the memorandum that this was a step in the right direction. If the letter has left the Ministry because Minister Brabec has a mess there and can't drive, or he has left with his knowledge, and today the clerk is covering his minister for some fat reward by not telling the truth, it doesn't matter, it's procedural detail. The important thing is that an official letter left the Ministry of the Environment, which allowed the Ministry of Industry to believe that the Minister of the Environment agreed. But I'm saying this as an entrée to tell you, excuse me, colleagues from the government, to tell you, as chairman of the opposition party, that this is not what we're going to be whistling to you. We dare say that the government has failed to defend the economic interests of the Czech Republic in the framework of raw materials policy. The fact that it failed, we didn't make it up, you say it yourself, because one ministry blames the other, who failed more and who was responsible for it. One party leader accuses the other party leader and back who is responsible for the failure of the government, but for us as a Chamber of Deputies and for us as an opposition party, the government as a whole has failed. To keep in mind the third party, the KDU-ČSL, which does not manage such a ministry, I would like to remind them that it also sat in that government and that raw materials policy is a policy of the government, and that when today it looks like they haven't been there for four years, it's smiling, alibis, maybe even folklore, but in any case it doesn't deprive them of the same responsibility that the government parties of ČSSD and YES 2011. The government simply failed to defend economic interests within the framework of raw materials policy and us as an opposition party, but above all the citizens of the Czech Republic do not care which Ministry is responsible for more. The government has simply demonstrated its incompetence and exposed the future to great economic risks, and that is one thing that we can make a clear conclusion on. And we're not even in conflict with government parties because they also say it's a failure. All they're saying is, it's his fault. No. We have to say: the government has failed. Which is an objective fact. Let me just make a little comment on the individual performances. I think it's known about me that I have quite a sense of humor, but some performances really surprised me and really made me laugh. [[17.30 hours]] When Vice-President Bartošek, he's not here right now, he said everything was ruined by the Chamber of Deputies because we were the only ones protesting the moratorium on five-year fees. Anyone who's read anything about the lithium mining problem knows so well that if tomorrow's mining permit went down and the EIA started doing it, it wouldn't be profitable until 2025. We're in 2017, so some five-year moratorium is completely irrelevant argument, but the whole O.R. went quiet and said, "Saframent, shouldn't we have supported that then?" We didn't. The price of lithium and what we will or will not have of lithium have no effect whatsoever. At the same time, I am sorry when Vice-President Bartošek announced here that the Chamber of Deputies has something to impose on the government, and now the resolution is awfully long, it is even on two papers, because one was not fit, so I would like to ask it, even though it is not here, through the President: What kind of government do you mean, Mr Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, Vice-President of the KDU-ČSL? The government where your party has been sitting for four years? The government that neglected raw materials policy for four years and failed to defend the economic interests of the Czech Republic? So, today, Monday, you want to do your homework when there's an election on Friday, and do you think that this will be resolved by Thursday on the basis of your motion for a resolution? Who the hell are you kidding? That's your responsibility. You've been sitting there for four years. And I'd just add the same to the fact that he blamed Minister Babiš for what we all know. The dog wouldn't take crust from President Babiš, neither would I. But I didn't sit with him in the government for four years. And I'm not even saying that I'm prepared to continue to rule with his movement, or even quite clearly rule it out, unlike KDU-ČSL. So again, Vice-President Bartošek, through Mr President, who are you making fun of here? It's the responsibility of all three government parties. And let me briefly comment on President Babiš's speech, since I have already given him the truth that Minister Havlíček really should not have signed it, so then followed by an incredibly incredible triad, a glorious paján to Prime Minister Sobotka. The guy who, colon - that's been repeated about 16 times, sorry I'm not able to quote that. But when I sum it up, President Babiš basically portrayed the Prime Minister as a semi-grammatical pest in the Czech Republic, but he blamed him for the things he knew when he went to the government with him. I was careful, there was nothing new. President Babiš knew all this when he said, "Yes, President Sobotka is my prime minister," even several times he said, "I could decide whether it would be Sobotka or... I was loyal." Well, for God's sake, with a man like that, how did Prime Minister Sobotka tell us how he could go to that government? And who's he kidding five days before the election now that he's doing this? I leave it entirely to the fact that it sometimes happens at parliamentary meetings that each of us is blaming ourselves, some crap or some rumor that has been heard from us. I know a party that's paid quite a lot of money for writing a book of rumors about me, and sometimes with it here, it's like they're waving. But that's a lot of gossip, please. None of them have ever been confirmed by any official institution. But the Prime Minister, "that's the man who..." and at the end of the day, the Prime Minister was supposed to walk out of the sewer and hang himself, so said the man here, who is a democratic institution, the Police of the Czech Republic, accused of criminal acts of fraud and threatened with ten years in prison. That's what the person here said, who is a democratic institution, the Institute for National Memoirs, justifiably registered as a whistleblower for communist secret security. I've been through a lot of personal firefights here, but in order to moralize us here, a communist cop and a criminal who's been at risk for ten years, I haven't had a good time. I'd be quite opposed to that. Let me just repeat what we said this morning at the press conference that we do not believe that the debate five days before the election can be factual and rational and that there can be some reasonable outcome. If the government hasn't done anything sensible in four years, it won't be able to do it from Monday to Thursday, I assure you. And that the task is therefore up to the new government and that we should - and I am calling once again on the resolution made by President Kučera - that we should state the fact that the ministers of the government and its prime minister themselves claim that the government has failed. Although they can't agree with each other who's to blame, we don't care, and the citizens, too, have failed the government. And that we should say that the rational substantive debate should be such that the government re-evaluates the raw materials policy and the relevant legislation so that the Czech Republic can ensure adequate mining revenues, that much of the proceeds remain in the region that will be burdened with mining, and that the best possible conservation of nature and landscapes where they will benefit is consistently ensured. Support, please. Not before the election, of course. You don't have to support this resolution, but I assure you, that's all we can think of today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-000-000.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Mr Kalousek, given that I am in charge of the meeting, I cannot argue with you. With a factual remark... There is no factual point, only priority rights, and I have them duly logged in. The debate is not yet open. If you're applying, Mr. Ambassador, with priority rights, I have to put you on the list. [[Mr Klašek]] Now, with priority rights, Minister Pelikán will speak. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-000-000.u39	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members, allow a few comments. I think a lot has been said here. First of all, if we're wagging a dog here. I almost felt when I listened to it, I felt like there was probably no memorandum, so I looked again at the pages of the Ministry of Industry and Trade and it's there. Ladies and gentlemen, we didn't make up the memorandum. Minister Havlíček signed it without consulting the government, and it is the only memorandum concerning this extremely important raw material source, and he must have expected to talk about it. We didn't make it up. You just signed it. What is this memorandum really? Here it said: It's binding, it's not binding. It's actually both true. The Memorandum of Understanding is something that does not exist in our legal order in our legal theory. The term is from Anglo-American law. We assess every document signed by two parties according to its actual content, so we cannot discuss in general whether the memorandum of understanding is binding or not, we can discuss whether any obligations arise from this particular document. And when we look at it, we find that there really are no concrete liabilities in favour of the Czech Republic as far as the counterparty is concerned, as far as the strange private company is concerned. This means that the Minister, as the Czech Republic, did not sign this document at all. [[17.40 hours]] On the other hand, it's a little different, because it's quite conspicuous, not particularly hidden, a reference to the international investment agreement, the BIT with Australia, and then it says that we all have the common will to benefit, and even that we all have the common will to get all the necessary permits. So, ladies and gentlemen, I used to do international arbitration when I was still a free citizen, not a minister. I've only made three or four of the 20 that we've had, and I can tell you that a memorandum like this would be a beautiful dream for a private-lawyer. This memorandum is very well used in international arbitration in case we decide to make a change in the future, that is, a change in that many times here discussed raw materials policy or conditions under which we can or cannot benefit here. And that's why I'm responding, and why I've already contacted that government, and why I suggested that we, as a government, disagree with this memorandum, because that would be the legitimate expectation of that private company, of course, that we would not. Unfortunately, the Social Democrats blocked the adoption of a resolution that would still save the whole situation. I think that if at least this House did it, it could still save a lot from international arbitration. And that's what I'd like to recommend. Otherwise, all I have to do is respond to what Mr Stanjura here said about reducing the lithium mining fee. I also received information from Greenpeace, and I also checked it out in some way, and I have to say that I am quite surprised because I also found the explanatory note that the Ministry of Industry and Trade gave us for the government's regulation, which, of course, it presented, and on the basis of which I made my decision. And here I learned that the method of fixing rates is based on the principles set out in the government amendment to the Mining Act, i.e. a double increase in the yield from the payments of the minerals obtained. Increase, double increase. And then I read a piece further that for metals, cesium, tin, lithium, etc., it was not possible to do the same because there was no benchmark base and thus the rate was set at 5% of the market price. And then I find that it was actually 0.7 percent against today's prices, the prices probably doubled over the prices they worked with, and it's interesting that they were working with the 2014 prices before the sharp increase. This reminds me of the story with OKD, but even then it was 1.4 percent. So I admit that I feel like a member of the government in this matter - which, I confess, didn't know from the title of lithium - cheated because I voted for something that the Ministry of Industry and Trade said to me that we're double raising the rate and that we're going to set it at 5%, and we actually reduced it ten times and set it at 1.4 percent that's how the Ministry of Industry and Trade works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-000-000.u40	Thank you, Minister. I'll read an apology. Today, from 18.45 to the end of the day, Vice-President Radek Vondráček apologizes for reasons of work. I now have the priority right of the Prime Minister, but I do not see him here, in which case another priority right is reported by Mr Kováčik. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-000-000.u41	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues, perhaps just a few responses from the promoter of this point, or a representative of the promoter, so as not to be of greater importance to the ongoing - I do not know how to say this, it is not yet a debate, it has not even been opened, the programme has not yet been approved, even the programme has not yet been approved, and the content here is already going to the fullest. First of all, I would like to comment on the situation here, when we are being repeatedly accused, and now I say, as the Communist Party Club of Bohemia and Moravia, of some perhaps purposeful alliance with some promises in the future with the YES movement. Once again, after some 87th time, I repeat that I thank all my colleagues who have joined in this matter with their signatures to the initiative of the KSČM. For those who still do not fully understand it, I remind you that there is a certain order, even though we do not compete, that we as communists have raised it, the subject Tomio Okamura joined and subsequently joined Mr. Andrej Babiš's subject. So much just for the record. And so there are unjustified all those naughty attacks by those who have held power together until now, government power, despite the fact that at the beginning of this year we have already stated, as is increasingly justified, that the current government coalition is exhausted, that it brings nothing new, only mutual disputes, and that is why it is worth putting an end to this marasm and making a vote in June. It would have been. Perhaps this lithium would be solved, too, by another government that would be more responsible. And because we are hearing mutual attacks - the greater the importance of the official in the party and in the government, the greater the criminal in the eyes of the other government party, and so I ask my colleagues from social democracy and the ANO movement, because the two parties are concerned, why were you together in that government for so long. Then why did you hold the government's teeth for so long? Didn't you guys know about each other who you are when you're betting like a bun on a store? The bigger the clerk, the bigger the robber. My colleague, Babiš, has repeatedly persuaded us - so that it is not only how Minister Havlíček accused us of going exclusively into social democracy - here he has repeatedly persuaded, the urbi et orbi says to the city and the world that he has already taken up the lithium case seriously in June. Yes, I'm testifying that this was the case. But I also have to add that my fellow Members from my membership club, i.e. from the KSČM club, already in January and February intersected this government, the various ministers, the Prime Minister on the case of lithium, and I'm sorry, it was like throwing games on a wall or maybe throwing pearls from a pig! So that somebody could go crazy about when he came up with the case before the other guy. I am convinced that if someone had questioned the question of the importance of interpelling so far, it now turns out that even those interpelees should take them seriously, because if they had taken the job then and answered the questions of communist Members and Members, especially those of the Ústecký and Karlovy Vary Region, which are the most involved in the case, we might have held a peaceful campaign somewhere else today and did not have to learn who called the meeting for the purpose of this meeting. [[17.50 hours]] I declare that it is precisely because these interpelations took place a long time ago, already at the beginning of this year, then the seminar and then the further interpellation, that it is not our fault that you are sitting here now, but because of those who, God knows, have already found the courage to do the initial search, then found the courage to restore them, then found the courage to sign a memorandum two weeks before the election, which does not mean anything on one side, but on the other hand is a major breakthrough. Then choose what the memorandum means. I will leave aside the fact that it is not possible to apply factual remarks here in this debate so far. And to respond now to the purposeful interpretation of Minister Zaorálek, the purposeful interpretation of my speech, is delayed, and I think everyone has taken a picture of the steno-record that I actually said here and what Minister Zaorálek interpreted here. What do I mean by zero? It also ran here several times and repeatedly. Therefore, if there are several motions for a resolution on this matter - I repeat, we propose that the memorandum, given the uncertainty of the subject, be declared null and void from the very beginning, and also, given that it was signed by an unauthorised person as a counterparty, that we ask the government to immediately start working on a law that deals with the mining and processing of lithium, rubidium and tungsten, or other ores and raw materials, only in the property of the State, can only be dealt with by undertakings owned or owned by self-governing municipalities and regions. It is the property necessary to secure the needs of the entire company, the development of the national economy and it is in the public interest. And also to propose a new law on end users benefits. That's what Mr Kalousek, respectively, was talking about. representatives from the right, oddly enough, we almost agree on this, in cases where strategic and other raw materials will be processed by private legal entities. I believe that if these major resolutions or these fundamental points of the resolution fail to pass, that I could now, in a preliminary and detailed debate, reload another motion for a resolution, which at least resulted from the current debate, the following proposal: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic declares that the memorandum signed by Minister Havlíček with European Metals Holdings is not legally binding on the Czech Republic and the appeal to the Agreement on the promotion and mutual protection of investments between the Czech Republic and Australia, signed in Camberra on 30 September 1993, and other internationally recognised agreements on investment protection, which are mentioned in the memorandum, does not concern the legal commitment of the memorandum to the Czech Republic in possible arbitration disputes. This is a motion for a resolution which, in my opinion, will clearly show who is on which side. And I think and ask that this proposal be voted on separately. Once again, the KSČM in this case is not associated with anyone, nor with social democracy, and the first Minister Sobotka, Havlíček, nor with the movement YES and Andrej Babiš, nor with Mr Kalousek, except for exceptions, we do not understand each other programmingly or anyone else. We are perhaps only associated with the citizens of the Czech Republic, at least with those citizens who are also expressing support in our efforts at these moments. This meeting would have been held anyway. I'm glad to be with the KSČM MP that we can be the player who kind of breaks the myth that there are two sides that have something to fight about. We are here as the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia and its parliamentary club, which initiated this meeting, thanking all those who have joined the initiative due to the seriousness of the problem, not because it is before the elections, not because it is what the Communists are proposing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-000-000.u42	Thank you, too. Since we have exhausted all the applications with priority rights, we should now vote on the proposal for a 61st meeting. But as it was said... [[A member of the reporter's office.]] There is a club chairman here, which means I cannot give priority rights if the club chairman is here, and he is not properly excused, because we have exhausted all the priority rights and Members who have been logged in with priority rights, on the basis of a grémium agreement, I am now declaring a two-minute recess before voting on the agenda. Thank you. [[There's a proposal for a longer break.]] Five-minute recess - well, I'm declaring a five-minute recess for Members to come to the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-000-000.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to take your seats in the Chamber, if necessary, to call on your fellow Members from the lobby, because, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I will vote on the proposal for a 61st meeting. I'll ask you to sit down. It is also for scrutinists and scrutinists to see who votes and who is present. So I'm going to ask you to take your seats. First of all, I will ask you to raise your hands so that it is possible to determine how many Members there are in the Chamber. I'll ask for a count. [[He's waiting for the result.]] The Members present are 125. [[More Members are coming into the hall.]] There will probably still be an addition to the number of Members present... The present Members and Members of the Chamber shall be 129. Kvorum is 65. I'll give you what we're going to vote on. We will vote on the proposal for the 61st meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as presented in writing. I ask who is in favour of this proposal to raise your hand. [[Counting votes.]] Who's against it? [[Counting votes.]] The result of the vote (number 4) is - for proposal 125, against 3. The proposal was therefore approved. [[18.10 hours]] We will now proceed to the only item on the show
