ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-006-054.u1	54. Government bill amending Act No. 166/1999 Coll., on Veterinary Care and on Amendments to Certain Related Acts (veterinary Law), as amended, and some Related Laws /German Printing 881/ - First Reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted will be made by the Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-006-054.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, allow me to introduce a bill amending Act No.166/1999 Coll., on Veterinary Care and amending certain related laws, veterinary law, as amended. The aim of the draft law is to ensure greater protection of the health of persons and animals and to reduce the administrative burden for breeders in cases where this is possible while maintaining the necessary animal health and animal health requirements. In particular, in order to ensure greater protection of persons and animals, the bill transfers certain obligations from livestock farmers to breeders, irrespective of whether they keep farm animals or pet animals, in order to maintain or improve the favourable health status of livestock and interest animals and wild game. It sets out the actions to which the State budget grants a contribution to their implementation, e.g. allergological test for tuberculination, sampling for laboratory testing and carrying out mandatory rabies vaccinations. In accordance with the requirements of the Czech Association of Beekeepers, it will comply with the so-called law. a bee-viewer who will be entitled to inspect the hives in the protection zones in the event of a confirmed dangerous disease of bees. The bee-breeder will be able to entrust the bee-keeping work to bee-seeers or to inspect his bees himself as before. It specifies the sale of small quantities of own products from primary production. It specifies the heading of the persons for whom the meat and the organs of domestic slaughter animals are intended, the meat and the authorities of domestic slaughter are intended for consumption by the breeder's household, in the case of meat and organs of bovine animals, or by the household of the breeder or for consumption by the nearer person, in the case of meat and organs of other animals. The age for domestic slaughter of bovine animals is increased from 24 months to 72 months, reducing domestic slaughter of bovine animals over 24 months and under 72 months to three pieces per year. It also introduces compulsory registration of shelters for stray animals so that all such establishments can be kept under veterinary supervision. It introduces the obligation to notify breeding of five or more female dogs over 12 months of age. In order to reduce the administrative burden, the draft law replaces, in particular, the obligation of the breeder to apply for the authorisation of domestic slaughter of bovine animals and farmed cervids to report such slaughter and reduces the period for notification of such slaughter to three days from the seven days to date. It also allows livestock farmers to carry out certain veterinary tasks on their holdings, such as: administration of medicines. Following the adjustment of some of the obligations imposed, and in particular in view of the current course of the legislative process, I would also like to ask for the possibility of a short hearing in the Committees of the Chamber of Deputies for 30 days, which I will also put forward in a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-006-054.u3	Thank you, Minister. I now ask the rapporteur for the first reading of Mrs Marie Pěnčíková to take the floor. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-006-054.u4	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In this first reading, we are beginning to discuss the law that you have in the system as the Parliamentary Press 881, and unfortunately since 26 July last year. This is an amendment to the veterinary law, which is already much discussed by the professional public. The aim of the proposal is, as the Minister has already quite detailed here, to ensure the protection of the health of persons and animals and to reduce the administrative burden for breeders in cases where this is possible while maintaining the necessary animal health and animal health requirements. The amendment addresses a wide range of problems, whether it be the aforementioned refinement of some animal breeders' obligations, and the modification of the sale of small quantities of own products, the obligation of beekeepers, but also the partial modification of so-called. multiplication plants. In view of the need for adjustments to a number of these problems, I strongly recommend that this press be released for second reading and I will recommend as a guarantee committee the agricultural committee and I recommend that the deadline for discussion be reduced to 30 days mentioned by the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-006-054.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I'm gonna load up some apologies. Mrs Jitka Chalánková apologizes today from 16.40 hours for work reasons. Mr Petr Adam apologizes from 17.15 am to the end of the day for personal reasons. Mrs Jana Pastuchová has been apologizing since 18 o'clock for personal reasons. Mrs Zelienková has been apologizing since 5:30 p.m. for work reasons. Mr Jaroslav Holík apologizes from 18:00 for work reasons and Mr Karel Pražák apologises from 16:00 for work reasons. I am opening a general debate to which the Chairman of the TOP 09 Miroslav Kalousek is reporting. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-006-054.u6	Thank you for the floor. I dare ask the petitioner. I understand that the answer may not be available immediately, but please see if this would be possible as part of the second reading. Given that this bill also deals with the breeding and humane slaughter of animals, whether the Minister of Agriculture here could tell us at second reading what is true about the fact that in AGRO Jevišovice they behave in a completely inhumane way and inhumanely murder crocodiles. I was concerned about the information, and I think that discussing this bill is the right moment to tell ourselves whether it's true or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-006-054.u7	Thank you to President Kalousek. I'm asking who else is reporting for the debate. Mr. Herbert Pavera. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-006-054.u8	Nice and pleasant evening, Mr President, honourable members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I would just like to say briefly that this law, which we have before us and which we are going to discuss in the coming weeks, is also an appropriate opportunity for, as my colleague Pěnčíková said, to include an amendment that would in some way make the situation worse for the multiplication plants, which here in the Czech Republic are rampant and actually produce a number of puppies as well as other animals. I believe that we will find a common ground to put in this law an amendment that will help to combat these multiplication plants. At second reading, I would like to read amendments that could address this situation, even in agreement with experts from the State Veterinary Administration, etc. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-006-054.u9	Thank you, Mr Paver. If no one else applies to the general debate, I do not see anybody, it is not so, I am ending the general debate. I'm asking the plaintiff's final words, maybe. The rapporteur. Not interested. I do not see a motion for a rebuttal or rejection of the proposed proposal. We will therefore consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The President of the Chamber of Deputies proposed by his decision to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the agricultural committee as a guarantee. I'm asking if anyone has a proposal for another guarantee committee. It's not like that. We will therefore vote on the commandment to the agricultural committee as a committee of guarantee. There's a check-out request. I'm signing you all out. Please sign up with your voting cards. We will vote on the commandment to the agricultural committee as a guarantee. Initiating vote. Whoever is for the Commandment of the Agricultural Committee as a guarantee raises his hand, pushes the button. Who's against it? It is a 366, vote registered 103 Members and Members, for 101, against none. The motion was accepted. I note that the proposal was directed to the agricultural committee as a guarantee. The President of the Chamber of Deputies did not propose to order a motion for another committee. I ask who has the motion for a commandment to the next committee for discussion. If no one has a proposal, there was a proposal here in the general debate to shorten the time limit for discussion by 30 days to 30 days, if I say so well. We will vote on this proposal. I am opening the vote on a proposal to shorten the deadline to 30 days. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a 367, registered vote for 107 Members of Parliament, for 93, against 6. The motion was accepted. I note that the bill has been ordered to the agricultural committee as a guarantee, and the time limit for the hearing has been reduced to 30 days. I'm done discussing the first reading of this bill. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. The next item is the item
