ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-08-ps2013-057-11-005-345.u1	345. Request for consent Chamber of Deputies to prosecute Josef Novotný and Jaroslav Borka On the point, we received the mandate and immunity committee resolution No 198 and 199 of 6 June 2017. We therefore have all the prerequisites to discuss this proposal. I will ask the President of the mandate and immunity committee, Mrs Miroslava Němcová, to report to us on the discussion of a request from the Police of the Czech Republic, namely the National Headquarters against organised crime, the services of criminal police and investigations, to express consent to criminal prosecution of Members. Before I give you the floor, Madam President, I will ask the rapporteur of this committee, Mr Martin Plíšek and Mr Matěj Fichtner, to be ready for their speech, or one of them may have taken the floor at the rapporteur's table. Please, Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-08-ps2013-057-11-005-345.u2	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice-President, I come before you to inform you of the discussion of the request made by the Police of the Czech Republic, the National Headquarters against organised crime, the services of criminal police and investigations, the expositure of Ústí nad Labem, which was directed to the Chamber of Deputies, the President of the Chamber of Deputies, and the police are asking for the consent of the Chamber of Deputies to prosecute Mr Josef Novotný and Mr Jaroslav Borka. On 2 May, when the request was received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies, the request was forwarded to the mandate and immunity committee by the President of the House on the same day. Its members had the opportunity to get acquainted with the submitted file material. With the agreement of the supervising prosecutor of the Supreme Prosecutor's Office in Prague, both Members also informed the Police of 25 April 2017 about the initiation of the prosecution. Member Josef Novotný, in the presence of his attorney and Member Jaroslav Borka, has personally commented on the actions identified in the police's request. Representatives of law enforcement agencies were also present at the committee meeting at the 50th. [[11.50 hours]] The mandate and immunity committee discussed the police's request at its three meetings held on 18, 25 May and 6 June. After examining whether the conditions for prosecuting two Members of the Chamber of Deputies are laid down, the mandate and immunity committee voted separately on each of the two Members. Resolution No 198 and 199 were distributed to you on the bench. As has already been said, the two rapporteurs of the mandate and immunity committee have been designated, and they are the masters of the members of Martin Plíšek and Mr Matěj Fichtner, who will take further action. Thank you for your attention at the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-08-ps2013-057-11-005-345.u3	Thank you, Madam President, for the mandate and immunity committee. And I will now first ask Mr Martin Plíšek, Mr Martin Plíšek, to speak as rapporteur on a specific case. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-08-ps2013-057-11-005-345.u4	Mr Vice-President, dear fellow Members, as the President of the mandate and immunity committee mentioned in her opening speech, at the end of the discussion of the police's request for the approval of the Chamber of Deputies to prosecute Mr Josef Novotný and Mr Jaroslav Borka, the mandate and immunity committee adopted Resolution No. 198 and 199, which were distributed to you on the bench. I will then propose a specific resolution to the Chamber of Deputies in a detailed debate, which is proposed by the mandate and immunity committee. I merely add that we discussed this request at three meetings of our committee. In addition to examining this particular case, we have also clarified with the prosecutor and the Police of the Czech Republic their procedure for the extradition of the Member, because in this case we have also received a resolution on the initiation of criminal prosecutions. That wasn't the case in the past. And we made it clear in the future, and it was agreed in committee that a resolution on the initiation of criminal prosecution should be issued only after the Chamber of Deputies has given its consent to the extradition of a Member for prosecution. That was our appeal to the D.A. and the police. My fellow rapporteur will return to this matter in his speech. I will then propose a concrete resolution from me and in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-08-ps2013-057-11-005-345.u5	I thank Mr Martin Plíšek. I would now ask the rapporteur, Matěj Fichtner, to take the floor with his report. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-08-ps2013-057-11-005-345.u6	Thank you for the floor. He's already mentioned it here, more or less, by colleague Plíšek. I think this case is pretty well-known. This concerns, at present, virtually 24 people who have been charged with the fact that two of our colleagues, which we are now discussing, are not included in this. It is therefore up to the House whether they will say or not agree to prosecute these two Members. The case concerns the ROP Northwest. I guess we all know the details, too. We discussed on the mandate and immunity committee how this case arose. It came from the fact that in the beginning, when the ROP was formed in the Northwest and when it started providing subsidies, there was a criminal report for extortion. The criminal report was somehow handled. Blackmail was meant to mean that the group of people who distributed subsidies offered entrepreneurs that they would be granted subsidies for some kind of service, or that they would not provide them if the counter-service was not implemented. This matter may even have been brought to justice. And that actually triggered the whole big investigation, which after some time, although it took a very long time, resulted in the accusation of 24 people I was talking about. So this is so reverend. We'll see if the case goes on or not. What is significant about this case from our point of view, or interesting, is that there are currently certain - I do not know whether to call it doubt, but rather, let's say, there was a debate on the mandate and immune committee on the constitutional conformity of criminal potential prosecution precisely because the police authority had drawn up a resolution on the initiation of criminal prosecutions involving our two colleagues even before the House agreed to initiate prosecution. We were debating on the mandate and immunity committee whether or not this procedure was admissible. We asked the D.A. about it. The explanations are basically twofold from the law enforcement authorities, one came in writing from Ms. Attorney General Lenka Bradáčová. I'll only read two sentences. The Attorney General also responded to the question of the press release, which came out on 4. Five, but I don't think that's really relevant. I quote: "It is therefore clear from this that the prosecutor of the prosecution in the press release correctly makes it conditional upon the consent of the House. From the point of view of criminal law, it is necessary to distinguish between the time when a resolution on the initiation of a criminal prosecution is issued, which in this case is a necessary act prior to the filing of an application for extradition to the House or to the committee responsible, and the actual initiation of a criminal prosecution pursuant to Section 160 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. By issuing a resolution, a person shall not become charged and shall not be prosecuted." That's the explanation of the Attorney General. The prosecutor of the Attorney General's Attorney General, whom we had at the meeting of the mandate and immunity committee, explained this by the fact that, from a material point of view, these two Members are not being prosecuted because specific actions are not being done against them in criminal proceedings. That means they're not being questioned as charges. They are not notified of the course of the criminal proceedings, they do not have the status of the accused, and they would only have that status if, as the prosecutor said, they were to receive a resolution on the initiation of the prosecution. I think there's more to this point than that. There really was a long debate about this on the mandate and immunity committee. It is a fact that the resolution on the initiation of a criminal prosecution has simply been assigned a number of the proceedings, it is signed, it is included in the file. That's right. And the fact is that these two Members visited the secretariat of the mandate and immunity committee and, with the consent of the State's Attorney, got acquainted with the text of the resolution on the initiation of criminal prosecution. There's a written record of it, there's an audio recording of it, so it's indisputable. From my point of view, and this is more of a personal comment, the question now is whether these two are basically being prosecuted today - from a material point of view. Of course, in such a case, it would be unconstitutional. But that's a pretty theoretical debate. And it was on the mandate and immunity committee that we agreed to debate this issue, but we will not decide it, and we will leave it at the House on the one hand, but especially at the courthouse, because the court should judge whether or not this procedure is correct. And after all, even the prosecutors have judicial control over them, because the court also decides on their proposals, so if the entire judicial system knows it's okay, then I guess it's okay. However, the fact is that this is the first time in history when the resolution on the initiation of the prosecution was made before the House's consent was given. So much for me, then. [[12.00 hours]] Perhaps as far as the negotiations on the mandate and immune committee are concerned, only additional information. The mandate and immunity committee asked the law enforcement authorities to have the whole file delivered to it, with the law enforcement authorities refusing to do so. And basically the only two documents available to us, except for the subsequent correspondence, was the request for the extradition of both Members to prosecute, and that was the resolution to initiate the prosecution, which was annexed to it. Both of these documents are based in a criminal file, along with other documents, of course, which are no longer included in the mandate and immunity committee. So much for me, then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-08-ps2013-057-11-005-345.u7	I thank the rapporteur, Matěj Fichtner. I am opening a debate in which I have no written application. I'm asking who's checking in from the scene. Fellow Member Jaroslav Borka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-08-ps2013-057-11-005-345.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice-President, I would like to make a very brief statement on this issue. Of course, what we have before us is quite a very serious accusation, which, of course, I will argue about for one simple reason, because I think that we are free in the body in which I was included, that is, the evaluation committee, quite freely expressed their views on the proposals as they were submitted to us, that is to say, the proposals of the Karlovy Vary and Ústí Region in the request for funding. I had the opportunity to study the request of the Police of the Czech Republic and the Public Prosecutor for my extradition, and here I would like to say that the first introductory sentences, when I was accused of being deliberately elected from the outset to the evaluation committee, that is to say, one of the four bodies that assessed the proposals in question, so I simply cannot agree with this and I have some further doubts which I will, of course, express in the possible proceedings. Also, before this was discussed in the Chamber of Deputies, the media presentation seemed quite disproportionate to the fact that the Chamber of Deputies had not actually adopted its position on this whole case. For these reasons, therefore, I am not asking for immunity and I am leaving the decision to the plenary, which is for you Members to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-08-ps2013-057-11-005-345.u9	I thank Mr Jaroslav Borka. Who's next in the debate? Chairman of the KSČM Club Pavel Kováčik.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-08-ps2013-057-11-005-345.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, have a good day. At this point, given that the Chamber of Deputies is half-empty and that this is a very serious decision, I would like to ask for a break at the KSČM club meeting for half an hour and ask the KSČM club to enter the club's premises now. [[There are 86 registered Members on the board, but there are many fewer physically registered Members in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-08-ps2013-057-11-005-345.u11	Okay. Thank you. Half an hour means 12:33 p.m., so I'm declaring a break for a meeting of the KSČM MP until 12:34 p.m., I'm sorry. I will read the apology of Minister Martin Stropnický at the House's afternoon meeting to attend the conference.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-08-ps2013-057-11-005-345.u12	Good afternoon, honourable Members. Time for a break at the KSČM club meeting has passed, we will continue. We are in an adjourned general debate and the rapporteur Martin Plíšek is reporting to the debate, this time only with his speech. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-08-ps2013-057-11-005-345.u13	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, although this may have been the result of the speech by the Chair of the mandate and the immune committee, possibly the rapporteurs, I would like to say for the record that the mandate and immune committee adopted two resolutions at its 50th meeting on 6 June 2017. Resolution 200: The mandate and immunity committee recommends that the Chamber of Deputies agree to prosecute Mr Josef Novotný, s. 14. 12. 1952. A resolution number 201: The mandate and immunity committee recommends that the Chamber of Deputies agree to prosecute a member of Jaroslav Borka, s. 18. 10. 1952. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-08-ps2013-057-11-005-345.u14	I thank Mr Martin Plíšek. I ask who goes on to the general debate. I don't see anyone. I'm done with the general debate. We will proceed to the debate in detail, I have no application there, so I will just ask for a repeat in one sentence that we have heard the resolution. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-08-ps2013-057-11-005-345.u15	I do not read that resolution, Mr Vice-President, just to be sure, because it was just a resolution of the mandate and immunity committee. I would like to propose that we vote on two separate motions for resolutions, the first of which would be: 'The Chamber of Deputies under Rule 27 (2) '. 4 of the Act of the Constitution of the Czech Republic and of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies agree to prosecute Mr Novotný." I just stress that the whole motion for a resolution is contained in the resolution of the mandate and immunity committee that has been distributed to you, and I do not think it is necessary to read that the facts for which the police have asked the Chamber of Deputies to issue are actually described. And the second resolution would be very similar, i.e. I will not read the references to the Constitution of the Czech Republic and the Act on Rules of Procedure, except that the Chamber of Deputies therefore gives its consent to the criminal prosecution of Mr Mgr Jaroslav Borka. So I merely mention that, of course, you have the proposal at your disposal, and this is how these two separate resolutions would be, because we should vote on them separately, these are two motions for resolutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-08-ps2013-057-11-005-345.u16	I thank Mr Martin Plíšek for his speech in a detailed debate. I ask, who else in the detailed debate? I don't see anyone, I'm ending the debate in detail. I'm asking for final words. The Chair does not want the Committee; the rapporteurs do not want it either. We will therefore vote on the motion for a resolution, individually. I'll check you all out first, of course. I'll ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. We will first vote on the motion for a resolution approving the prosecution - first Mr Paeddr Josef Novotný. We're going to decide in the 310 vote that I started, and I'm going to ask who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 310. Of the present 85 for 68, against 7. The motion was accepted. Now, the second motion for a resolution, and that is the motion for the approval of the Chamber of Deputies to prosecute Mgr Jaroslav Borka. We're going to decide in the 311 vote that I started, and I'm going to ask who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 311. Of the present 85 for 69, versus 6. This proposal has also been adopted. Thank you, Madam President, thank you to the rapporteurs for the work they have done and I finish point 345. We will continue with the point
