ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-06-ps2013-057-09-007-010.u1	10. Government bill amending Act No. 6/1993 Coll., on the Czech National Bank, as amended, and Act No. 136/2011 Coll., on the circulation of banknotes and coins and on the amendment of Act No. 6/1993 Coll., on the Czech National Bank, as amended, as amended /German press 1009/ - second reading Before I give the floor to the Minister of Finance, I would like to welcome the Governor of the Czech National Bank, Jiří Rusnok, whom I have seen. Yes, I see him coming. Please, Governor, take a seat with us. Welcome, Mr. Governor of the Czech National Bank, Jiří Rusnok. And I would now ask the Minister of Finance, Ivan Pilný, to state the bill on behalf of the government. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-06-ps2013-057-09-007-010.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, let me briefly mention the government bill amending the law on the Czech National Bank and the law on circulation of banknotes and coins. As has already been said in the first reading, the amendment brings several partial substantive changes and legislative technical corrections aimed at easier and, above all, uniform interpretation of this law. One of the most important changes in the matter is the extension of the heading of monetary policy instruments and the circle of entities with which the Czech National Bank can enter into free market trade, which is, and I would like to stress, entirely in line with international practice and the approach of the European Central Bank, whose status was an inspiration for the formulation of the provisions in the proposed draft law. Another no less significant substantive change is the addition of the Czech National Bank's authorisation to set the upper limit for selected credit indicators concerning consumer loans secured by residential real estate. This is an important instrument called. macroprudential policies that enable the Czech National Bank to fulfil one of its objectives, i.e. to take care of financial stability. This proposal is based on the recommendations of the European Systemic Risk Board, the International Monetary Fund and the practice of a number of EU Member States, and I consider it important for the Czech National Bank to have the proposed instruments as soon as possible in terms of financial stability. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, given that the proposal was prepared in the joint competence of the Ministry of Finance and the Czech National Bank, the Governor of the Czech National Bank has already been welcomed, so I also welcome it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-06-ps2013-057-09-007-010.u3	Thank you, Minister of Finance, Ivan Pilný. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a committee on guarantee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House prints 1009/1 to 1009/3. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, Mr Jaroslav Klaška, to inform us of the committee's discussion and to justify any amendments pursuant to Paragraph 93 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-06-ps2013-057-09-007-010.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Minister, Mr Governor, allow me to briefly comment on the negotiation of the amendment to the Czech National Bank Act. The committee discussed several times after the first reading, as is common with the proper discussion, and then the Committee also held a seminar on this topic, where the 16 types of changes that the amendment contains, in particular, two headings, especially the macro-prudential instruments of the Czech National Bank, which are proposed and which other major central banks already have, and then of course the issue of mortgage regulation, and thus the solution to a real estate bubble. So all this took place at the seminar, and then the Committee decided on the amendments tabled, and let me introduce you to the resolution of the Committee on Budgets of the 56th meeting of 17 May this year: Following the opening words of Deputy Minister of Finance Mrs Hrdinková, Mr Klaška's report and following the debate, the Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament that the Government's bill amending Act No. 6/1993 Coll., on the Czech National Bank, as amended, and Act No. 136/2011 Coll., on the circulation of banknotes and coins and on the amendment of Act No. 6/1993 Coll., on the Czech National Bank, as amended, approved the following amendments: 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the Point 35 is replaced by the following: 1 sentence, second number "3" is replaced by "5. - To explain this, it is a percentage of the volume of mortgages provided that will not be controlled by the Czech National Bank. 2. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Point 35 of Section 45a after paragraph 2 shall be inserted: Paragraph 1 shall not apply to consumer credit secured by residential property which is granted for the repayment of one or more consumer loans secured by the same residential property, provided that the amount of the loan granted does not exceed the sum of the balances of the consumer credit to be repaid by that loan at the time it is granted. - So that basically means that refinancing already established mortgages is excluded from the mortgage regulation scheme. [[17.20 hours]] 3. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market and does not constitute State 4. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the In addition to this point, the Commission notes that the Commission's assessment of the compatibility of the aid measures with the internal market is based on an assessment of the compatibility of the aid with the internal market and of the compatibility of the aid with the internal This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years under the general budget of the Union for the financial year. 5 The words "day 1 July 2017" shall be replaced by the words "day 15 after its publication." That is, therefore, because this amendment anticipated a possible extension of this amendment. So much for my intelligence report and the familiarisation with the budget committee resolution, which you will also find under the relevant House press. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-06-ps2013-057-09-007-010.u5	I thank the rapporteur for his intelligence report and open the debate that I have in place as the first governor to sign up - but with priority rights, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, President of the ODS, is reporting. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-06-ps2013-057-09-007-010.u6	Thank you for the floor. From the opening performances, we could get the impression that this is some kind of technical novel that doesn't really solve anything. I don't think that's true. We should debate the provisions of the law, which will make it particularly difficult for young families to have their own housing. And I don't understand the motivation of the petitioners. Firstly, according to the reports available to me, Minister, the bill was not written in cooperation with finance and the Czech National Bank, but it was written by the Czech National Bank, which I do not think is quite usual for the person concerned to write the law himself. And it's logical that the person who writes it for himself wants as many competences and powers as possible, that's, I'm saying, perfectly natural, and that's what anyone would do if they had the chance of writing the law themselves. With a more detailed speech for our club, Mr Skopeček will speak later in the debate. But the basic question is, why do you want to allow mortgages only to the rich? Why don't you make it possible for her to get her own place in the middle class and young families? Where are the young families supposed to save the required share? In fact, you condemn them to rental housing, which is simply not beneficial in many cases. In many cases there is, but in many cases there is no rental housing, and here you prefer one form of housing at the expense of another. If I heard from the Minister's mouth that the European Central Bank is the inspiration, then that kind of scares me. I do not know if we are still evaluating the activities of the European Central Bank over the last few years. I think the Czech National Bank is in a similar situation. First there's money printing, a lot of money, and then there's a rescue brake that's too much money, and we have to deal with it in some way. It's like when a pyromaniac is a volunteer firefighter, he starts a fire, and then with great fame, he comes out and says, "We have to put it out." You all understand that. Those are basic questions. It's not a technical novel. And then I would like to know - I am glad that the Governor has signed up for the debate. Non-standard monetary policy instruments. I hope I'm saying this right. The Czech National Bank wants to use them more. We should know why he wants to use them. And what are the results and international experience of these non-standard monetary policy instruments, and why are we no longer satisfied with standard monetary policy instruments? She seems to be the debate - not seemingly, she is highly professional in some areas, but has great political implications for the decision. It's not a technical novel, no way. If it were only about Czech ducats, it would be very simple that only the Czech National Bank can issue Czech ducats. I'm sure we agree on that. That's not the problem. But there are problematic passages. When I was going over the proposed amendments, many of them are trying to address the situation that I'm suggesting here that mortgage loans would become inaccessible to most families. I might also be interested in the debate at second reading in the opinion of the Governor and the Minister of Finance on the amendments. In our opinion, they are going in the right direction. Some are, I would say, stronger, better from my point of view, some are weaker, but each is better than the current state. Or do you really want to - I don't know if you're gonna be in the campaign, if you're gonna be writing on those billboards, you, the members of the government coalition who want to support this bill proposal: mortgage only for the rich. You can't reach the mortgage, you'll see. I don't think it's gonna be exactly on those posters. But the content of this bill is. We have a chance to change that, if we accept some amendments, yes, and if you don't, then if you don't, then we're gonna do it to the voters, that it's the ones that keep you from getting your own place. Because if you want to fight those who invest in real estate and who create a bubble that they talk about so often, they have a lot of resources. We can't stop them. But the normal, the young families, they're just gonna have a problem. And tell them that the first 10-15 years are supposed to be saving. It's the banks going around anyway. We see that some regulation already takes place on the mortgage market on the basis of recommendations. I think the Czech National Bank is such a strong regulator that all banks take its recommendations seriously. I think so. And look what it did to the mortgages. The prices went up. The mortgage prices went up and go up again. And I'm sure many of them won't get into it. And I think that's completely unnecessary. So either what we've been hearing in the long run, and I have no reason not to believe it, always says the governor, there's been a stress test, our banks are doing great. I think it's true. Then what are we dealing with here? Or maybe it's not entirely true, and then we have to deal with something. Well, I'd like to know how our banks are. According to all reports from various sources, they are doing well and all stress tests have been excellent for banks operating in the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-06-ps2013-057-09-007-010.u7	Thank you, Mr Zbyněk Stanjur. And in the debate we continue with the presentation of the Governor of the Czech National Bank, Jiří Rusnok. Please, Mr. Governor, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-06-ps2013-057-09-007-010.u8	Mr Vice-President, Dear Ministers, Minister, Ladies and Gentlemen, thank you for the opportunity to speak here. It is not standard that the Governor of the National Bank is performing at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies at second reading, but the discussion has been held to date and the first discussion speech I think is true that there is a need to express again the arguments that have also been made here. behind this proposal, which is, of course, a joint proposal by the Ministry of Finance and the Czech National Bank, as well as all of the financial market, and there is no need to doubt it at all. I will start with a line through Mr President for the previous speech. Czech banks are healthy, of course, but we want them to be healthy permanently. Maybe unlike you, it seems. Because if we do not take these measures today, the risk that one day they will not be healthy is very high. All the crises that have been experienced in the financial world in recent decades have had germs at the best times. Remember that so called. The big financial crisis, at which we may have already concluded, was originally created as a mortgage crisis in America, as a mortgage market crisis in the United States. Back then, everyone also claimed that everything was okay, everything was insured, and everything would continue to develop in the best light. There. [[17.30 hours]] I would like to say that for the Czech National Bank as the regulator responsible for so-called financial stability, this is because banks will be healthy even in the worse times that unfortunately always come in a cyclically evolving economy, it is extremely important to have the possibility to influence the character, parameters of newly provided mortgage loans. This is particularly true after the last global financial crisis that I mentioned, which has been particularly strong in Europe. And since then, it has been the responsibility of regulators such as the Czech National Bank in all European countries, among other things. And the benevolent provision of mortgage loans in the past was just a source of a number of problems and, in fact, financial crises. That is why regulators everywhere today are considering how to prevent such a situation from happening again, reducing the risk to the least possible degree. And it is practically unanimous to conclude that, if necessary, it is necessary to lay down certain criteria, certain edges of credit indicators before the significant signals of such crisis situations, when the regulator says "we can no longer go beyond this edge." What does the edge mean? This does not just mean that the loan is a high risk to a particular provider and consumer. This means, above all, that the provision of such loans in large numbers can lead to a threat to the stability of the entire financial system and consequently to the stability of public finances. I would like to remind you that the Czech Republic experienced a banking crisis in the 1990s and at the turn of the millennium. And its correction cost us a lot of money, a lot of percent, maybe even a few dozen percent of gross domestic product, from public finances. Likewise, in addition to about four countries of the European Union, among which we, fortunately, were among them all, in the last financial crisis, had to spend huge sums from public finances to save banks, to save the entire financial system, which, among other things, collapsed as a result of irresponsible overdrafts and households. We conduct discussions about credit indicators not only in the Czech Republic. The same legislative process is currently under way in Germany and Austria. A similar law was recently passed in Slovakia. The Slovak National Bank already has these competencies and uses them. I had the opportunity to see this last Thursday and Friday at the regular meeting of the bank councils of both central banks. It's not happening by accident. This is a response to the recommendations issued by the joint institution of the European Union, already mentioned by the Committee on Systemic Risks. The report of the International Monetary Fund mission, which was here recently about two or three weeks ago, also talks about the need to anchor such instruments in legislation. But we need those tools, regardless of whether anyone's telling us to have them and use them if necessary. We need them for our own need, we need them so that we don't get into the situations I've been talking about and, if possible, never get into. Of course, the credit indicators proposed in the amendment to the Czech National Bank Act sparked a public debate. It's a politically sensitive time, we're approaching a sharp election campaign, that's logical. On the other hand, the debate is, of course, legitimate and beneficial, and we are not defending it. However, one cannot ignore certain media pressure and pressure, I would say, on the part of a part of the market concerned. And that's not surprising either. It is a market in which approximately a trillion crowns per year revolve. And its functioning depends not only on the earnings of bankers, especially bankers, but much more on its functioning depends on the earnings of mortgage vendors, intermediaries, real estate brokers and developers. In the media and in particular on various servers of intermediary financial organizations, words are spoken about the dramatic effects of the amendment. With one or two exceptions, these comments have not been made by representatives of banks, which I would like to stress. The proposed amendment was discussed with the banks and discussed with their association and its resulting text is an accepted compromise - a compromise between the banking association and the plaintiffs. Those words about dramatic impacts are from credit intermediaries and the real estate sector. This is not a lack of information about the intentions of the Czech National Bank. It is an attempt to force pressure on the legislator, to lure those interested in buying housing by marketing communication: "Come quickly to take mortgage credit before it makes it impossible for you to do so by the CNB or almost makes it impossible. No mortgages will be available, property prices will go up and the amount of credit needed - don't look at it, it will only be more expensive and more complicated in the future." It is a business understandable marketing strategy, but it is necessary for the public to understand what is going on and should not be subject to it. It should be noted that the risk arising from the mortgage relationship is borne by the bank and the consumer, the client who receives the loan. The intermediary carries no risk. The intermediary shall bear only immediate remuneration. It is therefore no wonder that they care so much about maintaining the current unregulated state. I would therefore like to welcome the fact that the Gesture Committee, the Committee on Budgets, did not succumb to this atmosphere and, after an opinionally varied debate, eventually adopted constructive amendments. These proposals do not deform the substance of the proposed regulation, virtually. will enable the CNB to fulfil its role and objectives in the area of financial stability if adopted in this way in the law. It will also allow banks to provide mortgage loans in specific cases. The tolerance zones have been extended and have been abandoned since this regulation for refinancing mortgage loans, which is a significant part of the market. Nor does it prevent home loan providers from competing in the market, whether in refinancing or in new mortgages. I would also like to point out that the current recommendations issued by the Czech National Bank to banks, which we are trying to enforce, lay down the principle that we are much less stringent for private housing loans than for loans to buy an apartment as an investment. The upper limit of LTV, i.e. the sum of the loan to the value of the property, is 90 per cent according to today's recommendations and only 60 per cent for the investment loan. In the discussion of credit indicators, it is often said that setting the upper limit will reduce the availability of housing for young families and make it impossible for people with lower incomes to live in their own. First of all, I would like to point out that the benevolent provision of mortgage loans does not lead to an improvement in the availability of ownership housing, but ultimately vice versa. It leads to growth in demand, which will increase the price of real estate so much that people with average incomes simply cannot afford it. I understand that there are voices here that say "fast growth in property prices or apartments in selected large cities is also related to slow housing construction due to inflexible, especially construction, regulations" However, an improvement in this situation may take a number of years, as is evident from the development of construction legislation and other relevant circumstances in this matter. And in the meantime, the Czech National Bank cannot resign from its legal obligations, that is, to ensure financial stability. By the way, on 13 June, we will publish a new report on financial stability, where in concrete examples we will show how flats in different cities and the availability of loans do not pose a significant problem in most households with average income. [[17.40 hours]] Let me also briefly comment on the second part of the amendment, which is also sometimes contested, which is a section called Free Market Trade and Credit Operations. This adjustment is incorporated into the proposal in order to enable the Czech National Bank, and I stress this, in the event of non-standard or complex macroeconomic conditions, to carry out a wider range of transactions with financial market participants in monetary policy. This proposal responds to changes in the implementation of monetary policy that have taken place in recent years on a global scale following the outbreak of the global financial and economic crisis. This is essentially a major approach to Community legislation, which defines the range of transactions carried out by the European Central Bank. The crisis has shown, among other things, that the existing legal regime can, especially in turbulent times, be binding to the central bank and thus less effective for its rescue, virtually. the market maintaining operations. For example, it unnecessarily limits the maturity of CNB operations with banks to three months. It assumes that the central bank only regulates the functioning of the money market, it is only instruments with a maturity of up to one year. Since 1993, only banks have been trading partners in monetary policy operations in the CNB. By expanding the range of potential counterparties, the CNB will gain more room for monetary policy operations. This is entirely in line with the needs of effective monetary policy management in the event, as I have already said, only adverse or very adverse economic developments. However, these things need to somehow be prepared in the repertoire of the instruments and not wait until - God forbid - such a situation would break out. We're a small, open economy. There can always be such a situation from the outside. Then it is too late to change legislation and it could seriously undermine the central bank's ability to intervene in time and effectively. Madam, ladies and gentlemen, I would, if I may, be done with this statement. I would like to call once again for a very responsible assessment of this issue. I understand that this is a complex matter, to some extent naturally contradictory, but already today's legislation, recently approved by you, says that every credit provider, which means the mortgage bank, is obliged to assess the client's ability to repay the loan. If this ability to assess is not proven, respectively. it has not been sufficiently conclusively assessed, it has a serious convention for both credit providers and ultimately, of course, for specific individuals. The sum of these failures, the sum of these problems can be a great source of risk and instability for the entire society and its public finances. Thank you for the opportunity to speak and for the attention you have given me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-06-ps2013-057-09-007-010.u9	Thank you to the Governor of the Czech National Bank, Jiří Rusnok, for his performance and we will continue with the factual remark of Mr Jiří Laudát, Mr Herbert Pavera will prepare himself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-06-ps2013-057-09-007-010.u10	Thank you. I've only got two minutes, and I've got to take a lot of action against that tone you've heard here. Here, as far as I know, there's no one who had anything to do with any scams. And it was a national bank that gave a crazy license to somebody in the '90s. I don't think the governor has understood yet that he is no longer Prime Minister without approval in the House, the Zeman government, the Zeman appointed, but that he is Governor of the National Bank. I don't think we deserve this kind of behavior here. I want to hear the numbers, the facts, the data, the way the previous governors showed it, and we've always approved their materials practically automatically without much discussion. And I would be very proud to hear serious arguments instead of political Filipica instead of driving licenses to China. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-06-ps2013-057-09-007-010.u11	That was Mr Laudát's speech. Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Herbert Pavera will appear, Mr Václav Votava will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-06-ps2013-057-09-007-010.u12	Nice and pleasant evening, dear colleague, Mr President, Mr Governor. Let me present to you the amendments that are in the system listed under number 6509 to Act No. 6/1993 Coll., on the Czech National Bank. Firstly, I would like to mention the amendment relating to Section 45a (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 where in the second sentence the number 3 % is replaced by 20 %. And I'm gonna give you a reason right now. Twenty percent of the portfolio, I think, will not endanger the stability of the bank, will also ensure that citizens of the Czech Republic, who are sufficiently bonita, do not provide loans to non-bank entities with a loan-bearing character of a business that the Czech National Bank cannot regulate, although non-bank entities are subject to the regulation of the Czech National Bank. There are a number of non-banking providers that do not apply to the operation of loan providers, and this would support even more funding in so-called. The gray zone is a loan shark with criminal backgrounds and extortion practices. The payment of credit in the Czech Republic is so far at an excellent level. And if the repayment situation deteriorates, the citizens of the Czech Republic have the opportunity to sell the property and move to smaller real estate, for example. The Czech National Bank only wants to limit certain types of loans. Regulation should apply only to loans secured by residential property, i.e. mortgages, which are provided through the quality of collateral for a long period of time and at low interest rates. On the contrary, other types will not be subject to restrictions on the debt service of consumers, from any of the entities, both banking and non-banking. This will result in those who fail to comply with the conditions laid down by regulation simply taking another type of credit to purchase their housing, such as non-purpose with a shorter maturity at a significantly higher interest rate. This is very risky in terms of financial stability, because the short-term maturity of the loan and the higher interest rate will result in monthly instalments for such a loan being significantly higher than the mortgage loan. People could easily get into debt traps and be forced to sell even below the price of their housing, which could lead to distortions in the real estate market, which is exactly the opposite effect than the Czech National Bank intends. To argue about the current situation compared to other EU countries, I recommend using the 2016 macro-prudential regulatory overview developed by the European Systemic Risk Board in April 2017. The second amendment refers again to § 45a para. 1 where the sentence is added: "This does not apply in the case of consumer credit secured by residential property refinanced by one or more existing consumer credit secured by the same residential property, or if the consumer credit is repaid in the course of the sale of the property and subsequently the owner of the consumer credit takes up a consumer credit for the purchase of another property within one year'. Again justification: Refinancing of own credit must be excluded as bank clients would become hostages to the largest banks with a historically acquired portfolio of mortgage clients. If the owners of consumer loans secured by residential real estate did not comply with the conditions of the regulation, they would have to accept any conditions of the provider of such loans. The restriction on the sale of real estate is necessary because the owners of these consumer loans decide to sell the property because of moving to another place, such as the change in employment or the development of a family situation. This would gradually happen that not only would new mortgage loans be limited, but at the same time the portfolio of mortgage loans provided would be artificially reduced in favour of rents. The current portfolio of loans granted for housing is healthy and stable. The citizens of the Czech Republic are not being re-credited against other EU countries. The third amendment concerns Section 45a (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Article 4 (1) (a) and (b) (a) in which the sentence "total increase in consumer debt from consumer loans secured by the same residential property in the value of collateral, so-called the LTV indicator complements "or in the value of the purchased property, so-called LTC indicator'. The upper limit of this credit indicator shall not be less than 90 per cent. [[17.50 hours]] Reason: The extension to the LTC is proposed because table estimates do not have to take into account the actual purchase prices of the property and allows the client, using its own resources, to acquire the property even if the independent assessment is lower than the purchase price of the property. A restriction of up to 90 per cent is sufficient as, in the event of a more significant regulation, the housing market would be reduced more significantly with all the negative consequences described at the end of the amendment, which I will communicate. LTV restriction up to 90 per cent in combination e.g. with the tax paid by the buyer means that the buyer must have not 10 per cent, but 14 per cent of own resources, and if the valuation is lower than the purchase price, then of course it is even higher. A limit of less than 90 per cent would mean that even above average earning citizens would not be able to obtain their own resources for the purchase of real estate if they were not acquired in the form of inheritance or donation, e.g. family. That would basically depend on non-bank loans, or live your whole life in a rental. The average percentage of LTVs in the Czech Republic does not deviate from European averages, if we compare EU countries outside Italy, this is about 80 per cent, in Italy it is 49. Four. This applies again to § 45a para. Article 4 (1) (a) and (b) (b) which would sound new that the sentence would be replaced by "the total amount of consumer debt to its income, so-called the DTI indicator would be replaced by the sentence "total maturity of the credit; the upper limit of this credit indicator shall not be less than 30 years. Again justification: Removing DTI, that means, at this point, it is sufficient that the bank is obliged to verify the credit under the Consumer Credit Act. Each bank can set up a model based on risk management itself, which clients to lend and which ones they can't. This assessment is based on an assessment of revenue on the basis of a period of 12 months or more, age, education, gender and status, payment history, the nature of the activity of performance of income and other scoring parameters. The bank also evaluates the income mainly on the basis of a combination of the sum of the instalments, the life minimum coefficient and other reserves according to the bank's internal assessment. The introduction of the DTI parameter will undermine the sovereignty of banks that have their own scoring models, which, as shown by the low default rate, are functional in the Czech Republic. By introducing the DTI with the proposed ratio of the Czech National Bank 40 percent, which the Czech National Bank announced, most citizens who could have secured their own housing could not have done this. I'll explain again at the end of my performance. The loans will then start to be provided by non-banking organisations that assess LTV as the only criterion, because they are said to be looking at income less cautiously than banks, and which, thanks to the client's distress and high interest rates, will then become richer, as clients will get into even greater problems with the repayment of such liabilities to non-bank entities. Among other things, in the European Union, only Great Britain and Ireland limit this parameter according to the interpretation of the Czech National Bank. In most regions of the Czech Republic, the acquisition of new housing would mean an income requirement of twice to three times the average monthly income. Let me give you an example. For example, in Ostrava, where the prices of flats are around 3 million 300,000, it was enough to purchase a 26,000 loan, now it will be 49,000 according to the new one. The fifth amendment again concerns Section 45 (4) (b). (b) - the comma is replaced by a dot and point (c) is deleted. And now I would like to conclude by saying to all the points that I have said so far that the cost of paying mortgage credit, unlike sometimes disadvantageous consumer loans in the form of personal loans, credit cards, bank accounts, should be taken as a cost of housing, like rental. The mortgage cost of housing in most regions is better than the rent and, in the case of an amendment, the conditions will deteriorate. Rents against mortgage payments are actually gonna grow. If mortgage loans are regulated in the way the Czech National Bank is planning, I assume this scenario: It is a limitation of mortgage loans for ordinary families. The decline in mortgage supply increases demand for leases. Hypotenuse loans can get even cheaper and rents will grow. The costs for our citizens' families will thus increase. If a family lives in a rental, it will pay rent, it is a cost of living, a lifetime, unlike a mortgage loan that allows the property to be repaid within a productive age and a pension already has a family where almost free of charge to live. Housing loans will start to be provided through entities that are not subject to the regulation of the Czech National Bank. A new business environment for speculators and oligarchs will begin to develop. Property will not be in the hands of citizens, but the richest. The richest and different funds or developers will be sufficiently bonita for banks and will rent real estate for expensive rent to citizens instead of the citizens owning the property. If the amendment is approved, within a relatively short period of time - the Governor has also pointed out - many people will get a mortgage because of panic, even those who do not think about it. If the amendment is approved, it will be remembered of those who have managed to get housing so far, as a happy generation. Since the interest in new housing will still be similar, people need to move and change housing depending on the family, income and life situation, while property owners will sell real estate, and since someone will have to buy it, we assume that regulation will not change the volume of loans provided. What changes, however, is the composition of mortgage clients, where they will no longer be representatives of the middle and lower classes, but of speculators who will continue to lease properties for mortgage loans. Who will the novel help and who will it harm? It's a novelty for big banks, property developers, and wealthy investors who make money off of it. It's an amendment against ordinary households, against middle and lower classes that don't get new housing, they don't have their own real estate in retirement, they won't be able to refinance the existing mortgage, they won't be able to buy another property, because they won't be able to pay their original mortgage and get a new one. Basically, it's also an amendment against smaller banks and healthy competition. Thank you for your attention and I believe that even the Governor will respond to some of the comments I have made here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-06-ps2013-057-09-007-010.u13	I thank Mr Herbert Paver. Mr Václav Votava will now appear, and a colleague Miroslav Opálka will be prepared. I ask the House for peace. Mr. colleague, just a moment longer, I'll try to keep the House down. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-06-ps2013-057-09-007-010.u14	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Mr Governor, fellow Members, allow me also to express my position on this amendment to the Czech National Bank Act. It should be said that the need to adopt an amendment to the Act on the Czech National Bank has been discussed for many years. We received this proposal at the end of January of this year. It is, of course, from the workshop or in cooperation with the Czech National Bank with the Ministry of Finance, although it is true that the Czech National Bank was the one who contributed significantly to its writing. It should refer to the need for adoption with regard to European Union standards. It should be a technical standard, but unfortunately, it's not a technical standard. [[18.00 hours]] This proposal went through the first reading, yes. He also went through the Committee on Budgets, when he was interrupted several times precisely on the submission of amendments. The discussions in the Committee on Budgets also showed that it would be very good for a seminar to be held. Such a public hearing here in the Chamber of Deputies. It also took place with the participation of the Members, both with the participation of the Vice-Governor of the Czech National Bank, Mr. profesor. Tomšík, with the participation of representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the professional public, the banking sector, economists etc. It also gave rise to a number of topics and a number of comments and, in essence, those amendments that are in the system reflect what was being discussed at the public hearing. I said it wasn't a purely technical novel. If it was a purely technical amendment, it would undoubtedly pass the law smoothly. This is how it became a controversial amendment, especially to regulate the mortgage market. Otherwise, the law certainly brings a number of necessary mechanisms, no one will doubt that regarding the supervisory powers of the central bank. It's okay. He's got a lot of butes. At the same time, it brings new rules, which may have a major impact on the mortgage market and on the availability of housing in the Czech Republic, that is to be frankly said, because it gives the Czech National Bank relatively significant legal authority, and that is to regulate the mortgage market. Controlle significantly the mortgage market. There is probably no point in me reacquainting you with the parameters, the three parameters that will be in the hands of the Czech National Bank and which will command - yes, I will say command - to other banks that provide mortgage loans that they are supposed to require from clients so that they can reach out to mortgage loans. The LTV credit parameter is already being used, which is the total amount of consumer debt from loans secured by the same real estate to the value of collateral, but as a recommendation. It is not taxatically said that banks must follow this completely uncompromisingly. If the proposal passes in the submitted amendment, the Czech National Bank will be able, at any time and without any limitation, to set a minimum limit on the ratio of income to total instalments or to total debts, i.e. bindingly and uniformly for the whole market, to determine how high debt consumers can have in view of their current revenues. And of course, no bank will be able to grant a loan if the client does not meet even one of the criteria thus set, regardless of any other individual circumstances for a particular client. Yes, there are certain percentages of exceptions. That was also discussed. Some amendments are also moving towards this. The Czech National Bank will, of course, determine these credit parameters. measures of a general nature. So we decided to initiate a public hearing. I've already talked about this here. It has opened up another topic and it is necessary that what was said by the professional public really comes to light. And I don't think it's entirely true what the Governor said that the Czech banks, or banks generally providing mortgage loans, kind of agree with that altogether. I think that the colleagues who were at the public hearing or the seminar, if you will, will surely be right to say that they were critical of this too. They also expressed criticism. Yes, it must be agreed that the systemic risk to the financial stability of the market needs to be reduced. No one's questioning that. After all, that was also said at the public hearing. The Law takes into account macroeconomic instruments. At all costs, it seeks to meet market protection, meets the European Union's perfectly requirements for reporting tables, but it also forgets consumers. So there are a number of questions. I would say that the cardinal fundamental question is whether this legal measure will reduce significantly the availability of mortgage loans for housing, so whether housing availability will decrease, especially for people with lower incomes, for young families with children. And there is no need to remind that housing, good, quality housing, adequate housing is the foundation of a functioning family. And that's what we want families to have their own housing so that they can work in their own housing. And the central bank's actions should certainly not make this difficult. And I do not think that the central bank's macro-prudential policy is appropriate. I'm sure that's true. But I think that the banks themselves in the Czech Republic are certainly very cautious in this regard. This is also evidenced by behaviour during the crisis, and this is evidenced by the percentage of non-performing mortgages in the Czech Republic. It's very low. If I have good information, if I've been looking good, it's about two percent. Only two percent of the mortgages are burdened by the fact that they are not repaid or poorly repaid. There's one more thing I'd like to remind you of. We recently passed the Consumer Credit Act. I was one of those who supported him. In this law, he mentioned it as well as the Governor, we have given clear terms for the banks. Clear terms of how they're supposed to perform against the client, what the client has to submit. And how the bank needs to behave cautiously to provide the loan so that the client can be bonita in order to be able to repay it, otherwise he can't give it to him. So here in this consumer credit, there are clearly stated client requirements, as he has to prove that he will also be able to repay his mortgage. There is also a question as to whether stricter criteria for obtaining a mortgage will naturally lead people to look for financial resources to finance their housing elsewhere than in banks. Far more risky resources. And I'm not even talking about it moving into the gray zone. We don't want that. This is what we wanted to avoid in the Consumer Credit Act. Another such example may be the effects on refinancing of loans previously granted. And I am glad that the Committee on Budgets has adopted this very amendment, I support it that, in the case of refinancing, it should not be viewed as a new loan, so that it is not required, unless, of course, the credit indicators pass through, so that this does not apply to refinancing. In a detailed debate, I will sign up to the amendments that I have tabled which limit the credit parameters, because I really think that they are redundant, that three credit parameters are redundant. There are a number of questions about mortgage market regulation, and the Czech National Bank Act - which is not a technical standard at all - I am stressing this again, and where it deals with mortgage regulation, it should also be balanced both from a macro-prudential point of view, I said that nobody is questioning this, as well as from an approach to the availability of consumer housing financing. And that is what we all want, so that as many layers of our people as possible have the opportunity to have their own housing. They had a chance to have a place of their own, because that's the foundation of the family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-06-ps2013-057-09-007-010.u15	I thank Mr Václav Votav for his speech. Now with priority rights, the Minister. Minister, I will read the apologies received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies from 18:00, and Mr Karel Fiedler also apologizes to Mr Milan Šarapatka until the end of the meeting. Minister Ivan Pilný will now appear. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-06-ps2013-057-09-007-010.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I apologize to my colleagues who are enrolled in the debate, and I am speaking here with priority rights. This is because, on the one hand, there are arguments that have nothing to do with the law, and the other thing is that some arguments are beginning to repeat themselves. If you don't mind, I will stick to the diction of the law, especially the part concerning mortgage loans, and I will not comment on the activities of the Czech National Bank or the ECB in various other matters. I would just like to say that although this law arose from the initiative of the Czech National Bank and was a major participant in this law, neither the Minister of Finance nor the Minister of Finance are water carriers, so we did not bring here a text that we cannot comment on. And now, because I am a technocrat - President Stanjura has called for answers, I respect him very much because he has very precise opinions and figures available to him, but this time he has released only political herpes that we make it impossible for young families to live in. So he left and asked me to react in some way. I'm a technocrat, I'll respond with numbers. First thing. It is not true that the law we adopted limited mortgage loans and that these mortgage loans have fallen. I have here the 12th report on the development of the financial market and I note that 417.5 billion new loans have increased, which is 20.9 percent more than a year ago. Overall, the volume of outstanding mortgage loans - and now please listen - has increased to CZK 1.39 trillion. The total debt of households also increased in 2016 and already amounts to CZK 1.5 trillion. I have to say that mortgage loans are attractive, are driven by marketing and, despite the increase in prices, the volume is increasing. Furthermore, it is not true that the number of credit defaults represents 2 %, representing 4.8 %. It's not a bad number, but what's wrong is that mortgage loans and their maturity are being extended. And I ask you if you were in a situation of a young family and wanted to borrow for an apartment with a price of 5 million crowns, because prices are rising, especially in large cities, if you would enter into the risk of paying off a loan with 500,000 crowns, for example 20 years, in such a way that first you pay the interest, and then you have to earn it all the time. This isn't a rental apartment from which you can get out and go to a smaller apartment. No. If you don't pay back, the bank will just sell you the apartment. That's just a sad fact. I don't see this law and its tightening up as something that restricts young families with children, but I see it as covering the risks that will warn those who really do, as they say, stretch the loan too far to avoid doing it. I understand that banks have developed a system that they can set their own level of risk, but unfortunately, some clients don't. About the speculative loans. Of course, there are, and a lot of people are buying an apartment or a house today to rent it, it's basically an investment. Unfortunately, we are not yet able - I asked that question at the Ministry of Finance today, and I think that banks are unable to distinguish loans that are speculative in nature from loans that are directly intended for housing. Finally, I would like to say that I see this law and its tightening up in the area of mortgages - not talking about the second part of the law, which is very careful and appropriate - rather as a contribution to not exposing especially young families and people who really barely reach unnecessary risks for the loan, and I think that this is a law that is in their favour. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-06-ps2013-057-09-007-010.u17	Thank you to Minister Ivan Pilný. I will ask Mr. Marek Benda to be patient with my colleague Opálka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-06-ps2013-057-09-007-010.u18	Mr Vice-President, Mr Governor, gentlemen of Ministers, I am trying to listen carefully to this debate and I must say that at this point I do not understand one thing. The national bank's governor says he knows how to distinguish investment loans and loans that are for his own housing, that's how I heard his opening words, maybe I heard him wrong, but it said how much credit can be taken in the case of investment housing and how much can be taken in the case of his own housing. That's how I understood the speech. The Treasury Secretary here tells us that he can't tell the difference. I'd just like it to be possible to tell the House how it is. Is it possible to divide it, is it possible to determine it, or isn't it? Are there any other criteria for investment housing and for own housing, or are there no other criteria for investment housing and for own housing? I heard 90 percent, 80 percent, but maybe I'm wrong.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-06-ps2013-057-09-007-010.u19	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Did the Governor of the National Bank make a proper or factual statement? Okay, with a point of fact. My colleague Miroslav Opálka will be able to hold out. Please, Mr. Governor, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-06-ps2013-057-09-007-010.u20	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, with your permission, I will try to answer. There's a seeming contradiction, but he's not. Of course, the bank asks the client what the purpose of the loan is, trying to sort of screen it very carefully in some way, but she doesn't have an absolute chance to find out. If the client doesn't want to say this, he doesn't want to make it transparent, he just won't find out, and what the Minister of Finance says is true. In many cases, the client has no problem saying "yes, I buy an apartment as an investment," and in this case, in our recommendation, it should have at least 40 percent of the value of the property already in its own savings or in the deposit it gives to the property. These are recommendations which, of course, are difficult to enforce legally. Of course, we try to enforce them through supervision in some way, but there are always very competitive players on this market who, of course, tend to respect the recommendations less because they are trying to gain market share or have some other motivation. I want to stress one more thing. We have branches of foreign banks, where by law our possibility of supervision is very limited only to liquidity and only to rules of conduct, code of conduct, or the possibility of acting on them in the form of such a very soft recommendation is very problematic. There is also a lack of justice in the market. They're both paying for what's been said. Yes 60 per cent is a recommendation if it is an investment purchase, but the bank does not have the possibility to definitively and always find out that it is a de facto investment purchase.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-06-ps2013-057-09-007-010.u21	Thank you, Mr. Governor, for keeping time. One more factual point, Mr Štěpán Stupčuk. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-06-ps2013-057-09-007-010.u22	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask the petitioner of the bill whether he has taken into account the fact that there has already been some factual tightening and some limitation of the availability of mortgages due to tax regulation, and that is when the obligation to pay the property transfer tax from the seller to the buyer has been changed. The tax is 4%, and I'm not at all sure it's even possible to cover it with, for example, a mortgage loan these days, but I don't think so. So, of course, if we're based on the assumption that there was some set limit of about 10 or 15 per cent, when the mortgage applicant in question had to have his own funds, then of course there was a new obligation of 4 per cent of the value of the purchase price. That's one of my thoughts. I know from around here that many people find it difficult to accumulate such cash. [[18.20 hours]] And the second thing is, I see here the greatest danger caused especially by the situation where there was a record low level of interest rates. A lot of people have taken interest rates, they have a fixation on three, for five years. And of course, the question is, what will the development of interest rates over the five years be, or over the three years, whether they manage to maintain a relatively stable environment in this area of interest rates, because, let's be honest, people usually calculate these payments on the current income they have and do not count on the mortgage rate, for example, being relatively dynamic in the future. And then, of course, it causes a lot of trouble for the future.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-06-ps2013-057-09-007-010.u23	Mr. Ambassador, you've run out of time to make a point of fact. [[- Thank you.]] We continue with the proper application of Mr Miroslav Opálka. A colleague of Mr. Skopeček will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-06-ps2013-057-09-007-010.u24	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Minister, Mr Governor, colleagues, it has been said a lot. [[The government bench is completely empty, the Minister of Finance Pilný sits at the rapporteur's desk]] My performance may not go as far as the matter is concerned, but I would respond to the Minister. It's all connected to everything. First of all, I would like to point out how individual laws affect housing prices. Although the guarantee for the housing business is the MMR, I must say that we now have four bills - that is 1009 to the Czech National Bank, 1065 and 1066 to social housing, but also 1108, the civil court order, which deals with the community of owners of housing units. All these laws and, in addition, the Act on State Social Support or material need also have an impact on the final price of housing. And an apartment isn't a common commodity. And finally, housing in our society is fortunately also right. I think this law will have an impact on housing. The Minister has submitted statistics here. I do not know why he presented it, because it is still based on the text currently in force, or not on the proposal that we are discussing. But where is the guarantee that the market situation will not change? You know, if state social support pays a housing allowance based on whether it exceeds 30%, 35 percent in Prague, and it's not fixed, it certainly doesn't reduce the price of housing. On the contrary, he drives her up to the owners of the apartments and houses because they know that the state is still there for the 30% or more of the contribution. That's one thing that's crooking the market. The second thing that is crooked by the market is, of course, the issue of mortgage prices, and this reflects the price of rental housing. When you look at statistics, you find that we have a larger percentage of people paying more for rental housing than those who have a mortgage and look forward to owning housing. And what is specific to our market is that after 1990, our citizens have actually come to property housing in an unrepeatable way. If you put it all together and now you look at the proposal that - I listened carefully to the Governor, defended him logically, but on the other hand, I must say that the defense of influencing the koruna course, or reducing the course, was also theoretically explained, but I think, from my point of view, it was wrong, so I'm also vigilant here. Because I'm gonna be interested, and I'm not gonna be in the House anymore, who's gonna be paying -- well, who, that's obvious who -- the exchange rate losses that are going to arise, or they're going to be incurred when they're buying, and then they're going to be selling the currency or the currency. I want to say that the current situation with flats is that they are the driver of the economy, because the construction of flats or the modification of flats was an important segment within the national economy, and it should certainly remain that way. If there is a decline in housing, it must inevitably fall on construction and sales. And the collapse of construction is always a problem for the whole economy. Although these statistics today, when they show us growth and they don't show us the growth of construction, they're kind of weird and interesting. I am glad that unemployment is relatively low within the European Union, but of course construction employs a lot of professions as well as a lot of unqualified workers. And I think we need it. So it could damage the entire economy, and I don't want to lift my finger any higher. The problems that the amendment solves - and we've actually shortened the press to 30 days, and today, if I'm not mistaken, it's 83 days since the hearing, so we've crossed the original line, so it's a complicated material. And I hope it's not as the governor said in the media today that it's an attempt by the Chamber of Deputies to put this material under the table. I think there are changelings that come out to most, and that this material will pass. I would like to add to the fact that we should focus more on what we have already discussed, and these are consumer loans, because for mortgage loans, I think the threat of a financial bubble in the Czech Republic is not imminent, and there is always some property that remains, unlike consumer credit, when the consumption of electronics, cars and so on. The restriction of access to property housing is indisputable. And then we have to say openly that this will only be the way for the wealthy. But that wouldn't bother me so much, because Europe lives mainly on rental housing, but there will be a situation where loans to medium-income groups will grow as well. Because they're already paying more in rent somewhere than if they had their own mortgage. But since they can't reach the mortgage, they have no choice but to pay the rent. And so if the laws of the economy, supply and demand and market apply, logically, the rent must also increase, because it will be beneficial for the owners. And then there will be more pressure on social housing, and the question is, how will social housing be? So I don't want to record this law to big banks, I don't want to record it to speculators. And while I am not proposing an amendment in a detailed debate, I would like to say that I will stick very closely to voting on what amendments will go through. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-06-ps2013-057-09-007-010.u25	I thank Mr Miroslav Opálek for his speech. And we are now continuing the general debate with Mr Jan Skopeček's speech. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-06-ps2013-057-09-007-010.u26	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I am particularly pleased that we are discussing this quite in detail. I think there's a lot of rational arguments here. If you remember the first reading, the law passed here without any significant discussion, it was introduced by the author and author as a technical amendment. I think it is clear from today's discussion that no technical amendment is really involved. [[18.30 hours]] We are indeed on the Committee on Budgets, and thank you to the President, have held a seminar on the subject on which a number of people have, of course, spoken from both the academic world and the business people, as well as those intermediaries who are now considered criminals. However, I would like to say, through the President, to the Governor, that although we often disagreed with Mr Tomšík in these negotiations, we always had a fair discussion and did not even think to blame him for the fact that perhaps because we have a different view of regulation of banks, we want to cause their collapse, as has been said here at the outset. I think, Mr. Governor, I appreciate you, but it wasn't entirely appropriate to make a statement. We can simply have a different view of things, especially in economic and economic policy, without wanting to harm the economy or individual citizens. The proposal itself. I know that the part that deals with regulation of the mortgage market gets more media-friendly and more responsive, but again I would like to draw attention to the so-called. the non-traditional monetary policy instruments that the bank wants to acquire. I think that the Czech National Bank does not need them, that even with the existing monetary policy instruments at its disposal, it has managed to use an unconventional monetary policy instrument beyond the standard instruments it has used until then through a long-term weakened koruna exchange rate - and I am a great critic of this measure - and it did not need to change the law. We all know well both in economic theory and in practical economic policy that the monetary policy of the large central banks, whether it was the FED or the European Central Bank, which carried out quantitative easing, and neither economic theory at the academic level, nor practical economic policy is sure of the long-term consequences of pouring money into the economy. The fact that this is a huge systemic risk that the Czech National Bank has the law for, and the fact that it is a huge systemic risk, the quantitative easing, already shows how it reacted after this policy, for example. the profitability of pension systems in the United States and in a number of other countries, where, thanks to that relaxed monetary policy, the life savings that people saved for retirement and for part of their lives were economically active, as they recorded loss. So that's just the first of the unfortunate consequences that we can expect from quantitative easing. Many others may come, whether by hyperinflation, which would logically be the logical consequence of quantitative easing in a standard economic environment. And I just don't feel that, as the House, we should simply wave away the Czech National Bank's dramatic expansion of its powers without there being very deep academic, professional, but also political discussions. And unfortunately, it has not yet run for such a substantial standard. And I am very pleased that the Committee on Budgets has joined this, and that it is growing, as I have seen in the system, as the number of amendments is growing, so it is clear that other and other Members understand that no technical amendment, as the Czech National Bank falsely wanted to tell us at the beginning, is involved in any technical amendment. The proposed amendment to the Act on the Czech National Bank is intended to allow the regulation of three credit indicators at the same time. I don't have the exact dates, but even though I've been looking and studying the explanatory report on the law itself, I haven't found any country to regulate all three credit indicators at once. Moreover, those indicators that regulate, or look at the household income that asks for a mortgage, so they are regulated by countries such as Ireland and Great Britain, but with an absolutely different structure of the mortgage market. I cannot agree that this proposal is currently needed. When we look at the data, and if they are more accurate at the moment, I looked at it some 14 days ago, three weeks ago, when I prepared the amendment, statistics show that the share of the mortgage loan financed by housing is significantly below average in our country. 18 percent of households finance housing through a mortgage, which is really a different number than the 27 percent average of the European Union. And when the governor mentioned Slovakia, which was said to have come up with similar proposals at the moment, that share of the housing loan is at 37 percent. This is a completely different number than the number 18 in the Czech Republic and it is a completely different motivation to choose such regulatory instruments as the Czech National Bank wants us to. Low-income people, and Eurostat defines this as 60 percent median and less, have a loan for housing in our country only in 6 percent of cases. Again, compared to the European Union, where the average is double. With regard to some risk and bubble, statistics show that in the whole post-crisis development, I mean after 2010, real estate prices are growing at the same rate as income in the economy. Again, it doesn't indicate that there's some sort of dramatic inflating of a mortgage bubble that we would currently have to pierce, as they say. And I will not forgive myself for saying that, but what the Czech National Bank wants us to do and what it wants to brake has itself caused its own relaxed monetary policy and pressure on low interest rates. Clearly, low interest rates simply motivate people to save less and borrow more, that they motivate people to take interest when they are so low, to take a mortgage and to buy housing. Personally, I think taking a home loan is definitely a better way to get in debt than getting consumer credit for Christmas gifts or summer vacations. I think that giving people a chance to get their own housing and to set it up during their lives is a thing that helps the economy and not just the economy, but, in particular, the stability of society. And don't be mad at me when the Czech National Bank wants instruments in its hands to limit the mortgage market, so it is clear that the credit, mortgage capacity, the ability to touch especially low-income families and groups of people on a mortgage will simply be severely reduced. I am also glad that the partial proposals from the budget committee, although I think that this does not lead completely, so far, to a systemic amendment of the law. But for me it was completely incomprehensible that, from the beginning, as the Czech National Bank planned, mortgages that were already running should have fallen into those regulations, i.e. refinancing mortgages. Let me give you an example. Take a young couple who, at the time they both work, purchase a mortgage for five years, leave their wife for maternity leave for the fourth year, automatically reduce their income for a limited period of several years, there is a time when they could refinance the mortgage, want it, find a competitive bank where they would touch the mortgage at a lower interest rate, but because the Czech National Bank will regulate the indicator that examines household income, so this household is due to the fact that the wife or partner is on the parent's and has a lower income, so they will not qualify and will be sentenced to staying with the bank existing, even at a higher interest rate. So I think that doesn't reduce systemic risk, which is the ambition of this law, but rather that it increases systemic risk. And I did not understand why we wanted to complicate life, or why the Czech National Bank wants to complicate life not only for couples or individuals who take mortgage loans for the first time, but why it wants to complicate life for people who normally pay back mortgages today and only want to refinance. Another problem point of the amendment is, in my view, the relatively high spontaneousness of the central bank's decision-making. According to the amendment, these limits can be set completely independently and at the sole discretion of the Czech National Bank. The proposed amendment does not address the fact that greater caution in managing one indicator can be offset by a more freer approach to another indicator. By setting the upper limit without knowing the context of the individual credit case, as proposed by the amendment, there is de facto a situation where the Czech National Bank receives extremely large powers, not only how to influence the mortgage market, but how to direct the risk system in individual commercial banks. It is a model of the principle that, in my view, does not work in economic policy, which means that one size fits all, that is, one area regulation will cover all cases and fall to everyone. [[18.40 hours]] I think that life is more colorful and that even credit applicants are so specific that they should be on a commercial bank to assess themselves at their own risk, and then, of course, let the commercial bank, if the mortgage loan proves to be a credit default, bear the consequences. But I do not understand why the Czech National Bank should replace the risk management department of commercial banks. There have been a few things that have been said here, like protecting consumers from themselves, so that the poorest do not go into loans that will not be paid or put in some kind of difficult situation. I think the state is holding these people's hands too much. That this House, too, has passed so many laws over the past three years to protect citizens and people from themselves that it has no equivalent. And it's coming again. Once again, we have our fellow citizens for inferior, less thoughtful, unable to assess the risk, unable to consider whether they can take credit or not. And there's a wise state, in this case not even a commercial bank that's supposed to provide the loan, but a central bank that knows much better than those people who can afford in life what risks they're supposed to go into. In short, the Czech National Bank and the House, if it adopts this law, will consider our citizens to be a herd that is unable to make decisions on its own in life, such as how to buy and how to finance housing. I was pointing to the figures that our mortgage market isn't in some bubble, that it's not bad, that there's no dramatic downturns. I would also remind you that the ratio of non-performing loans, not only mortgage but total, for households on total loans to households is 3.2 %. So no large number of loans on the part of households that would be in default. And that number, of course, already shows today that people are able to choose the appropriate loan themselves. That number shows that today people don't take loans that they can't pay back. On the contrary, in international comparison, we are at a much lower level in these figures. The governor mentioned and compared the situation of the Czech Republic with the United States, respectively. Talking about the crisis in the United States starting on a hypo...
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-06-ps2013-057-09-007-010.u27	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador. But I'm going to ask you, colleagues, to keep your voice down so that you understand. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-06-ps2013-057-09-007-010.u28	Thank you very much. I'll repeat. The governor compared the situation or stressed the need to adopt this law, the experience of the United States, where, among other things, the economic crisis was triggered by mortgages that were currently outstanding, or a large proportion of loans in defaults held by households in the United States. But he forgot to deliver one thing. He forgot to add that, thanks to left-wing democratic president Bill Bill, Clinton were two state agencies, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which financed from other taxpayers' money, publicly subsidized mortgages on those clients who could not reach standard mortgages in US banks. Thus, in order to allow banks to grant loans to people who were known not to be bonita in that standard sense, that they would not be able to repay, so to those for those people, the United States government created two agencies through which, for taxpayers' money, they subsidized these innocent clients to take credit. Of course, this leftist, in the American sense, democratic policy failed, because the volume of the loans granted to such innocent clients was, of course, huge and stood at the birth of the financial crisis and then economic crisis. However, giving this as an example of why this law needs to be adopted in the Czech Republic is not appropriate at all and it is not appropriate. We don't have one or two Fannies in the Czech Republic. Mae or Freddie Mac, who would subsidize innocent clients to take loans they wouldn't be able to repay. Therefore, any comparison with what happened in the United States and what is in the Czech Republic is simply inadequate in this sense and in this context. I am in that sense - and one more comment. The governor said that perhaps the banks are very excited that this regulation is preparing for them. I don't think we need to be too much of an expert on the banking sector and the interest of individual banks, but if something is definitely not of interest to commercial banks, it is for the Czech National Bank to enter into their free decision-making, to whom they should or should not lend credit, in such a dramatic way. It is clear, Mr Governor, that you have relatively strong instruments for these commercial banks today, and that commercial banks, out of fear of increasing their capital adequacy, are obviously in the debate, the public debate in this very modesty, because they know that if they act dramatically against your law, you now have enough tools to so to speak. That's why, of course, we don't hear commercial banks too much to say, which is why we hear the academic sphere, which is why we hear the intermediaries. I simply think that the Czech National Bank has sufficient authority today. By way of recommendation, it already tells banks what proportion of mortgages they have or should not lend to the value of the property. And that putting this recommendation or turning it into a legal regulation is not right at all. I would just like to give Members such consideration: we often argue here and debate whether the VAT rate will fall by one percent up or down. There are great political disputes about how we set one or the other specific tax rate or any other economic policy parameter. And on the other hand, we have the Czech National Bank, which has the Bank Board, which is appointed President of the Republic and which is supposed to be in the hands of such dramatic powers, much greater than the movement of value added tax by one percentage point up or down. And with such authority, the Czech National Bank will, of course, be able to do so at one of its meetings without any political responsibility and without any public or professional discussion. So I would just like to draw the attention of the legislators and ladies to the fact that the Czech National Bank wants to take on the powers that we are dreaming of here in the Chamber of Deputies, or, after all, colleagues in the government. And if that is what the Czech National Bank really wants, in my opinion, the debate on extending powers should be preceded by a debate on the position of the Czech National Bank in the system of economic policy institutions. And whether, in the growth of those powers, there is no debate as to how members of the Bank Board may be nominated for the board, if there is no reflection in such a dramatic increase in powers to entertain it. Because that would be a logical consequence. At the moment when an institution dramatically gains greater powers, it should automatically gain greater responsibility. And it should be a political issue of how they are nominated to that bank or not nominated by its members. That means members of the Bank Board. [[18.50 hours]] I agree that monetary policy has undergone dramatic changes in both theoretical and practical terms over recent years. I agree that monitoring the mortgage market and mortgage prices, as well as other assets, is extremely important, because the main thing that complicated, among other things, the way the crisis was handled and the way the central banks behaved during the crisis, and the problem is that the Czech National Bank, whose main task is to take care of price level stability, is to stabilise price levels by measuring inflation through the so-called CPI consumer basket index. The consumer basket includes a lot of products and a lot of goods such as the current daily consumption, but it does not include such serious prices - because they are worse measured - as are prices of financial assets, but also real estate prices. And this was also a problem in the United States that the Czech national banks responded to prices, responded to the situation, but the main price or the price that caused the biggest problem in the economic crisis, that is, property price growth, so the central bank did not see or saw it with delay and did not have it in what it measures and responds to. So does the Czech National Bank, which uses the monetary policy regime of so-called inflation targeting, which targets inflation, but only the consumer basket... [[The MP has been silent for the sound of the room.]] And I think there is a big debate in front of the economic community about how to include the prices of assets, both financial and real estate, in some sensible index that monetary policy will respond to. After all, I consider the monetary policy regime for inflation targeting to be outdone. It cannot respond to bubbles in asset markets precisely because it dogmatically measures only consumer basket prices. And I consider it one of the problems why monetary policies have failed in individual countries, so I consider that it is precisely...
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-06-ps2013-057-09-007-010.u29	I apologize, Mr Member, but again, although I do not like to ask the honourable Chamber of Deputies to keep it down. In case you have something important to deal with, I'd like to ask you to go to the lobby and deal with these things. Thank you. Please, Mr. Ambassador, continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-06-ps2013-057-09-007-010.u30	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'd be happy to do it again. [[Laughter on the bench.]] I think that the monetary policy regime that the Czech National Bank is using, and this is the monetary policy regime for inflation targeting, is simply outdone. And the fact that he overcame himself has just been proven by the global economic crisis that was unleashed in the United States, to which monetary policy has failed to respond as standard and effective as central bankers who are oriented towards inflation have not been able to measure inflation overall, which would include such important assets as housing or financial assets, but only responded to a consumer basket, which is really something other than the overall price level. So I think that if we are to approve an amendment to the Czech National Bank Act and if we want to expand the powers of the Czech National Bank, it should indeed be done by the Czech National Bank - because I am sure that the individual members of the Czech National Bank may have a similar view that they really consider the inflation targeting regime to be more or less exhausted and are looking for a way to include the mirror they are looking at in addition to the consumer basket when they decide how to set monetary policy instruments to get real estate prices into the system. [[The noise in the room got stronger.]] Speaking of real estate prices, I'm sure it's important to point out that if we look at the market and the price developments, we need to... [[Another silence for the noise.]] .)
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-06-ps2013-057-09-007-010.u31	Yes, I'll renegotiate the room. Colleagues and colleagues, I'll name those of you who don't respect my request for silence. [[From the benches, they say, ……]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-06-ps2013-057-09-007-010.u32	I'm sorry, I have to do it again. No, seriously. I think that the debate on monetary policy is essential because everyone knows very well, and the governor knows very well that while fiscal policy is almost inoperative and inaction is due to mandarin spending, and the government can use it less and less for active economic policy, the importance of central banks and their monetary policies is growing on overall economic policy. And I really think - and I mean it, and not to delay my speech, but I am serious - that the monetary policy regime of inflation targeting, which the Czech National Bank has been using for many years, has exhausted itself. And I would expect central bankers to come to the Chamber of Deputies with the law, with an amendment to the Act on the Czech National Bank, that the discussion, if they want other instruments, would be preceded by discussion as to whether the inflation regime -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-06-ps2013-057-09-007-010.u33	I apologize, Mr. Ambassador, but again to my great regret - before that there was a noise from the left. The left part of the hall calmed down and now the noise was transferred to the right part of the hall. And so I ask you, colleagues, to keep your voice down, to respect what Mr. Skopeček lectures. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-06-ps2013-057-09-007-010.u34	Thank you very much and I'll do it again for the third time. I think that the presentation of this law should have preceded a very deep discussion of the way the Czech Central Bank will take in the future, because there are fewer debates in other countries with the European Central Bank, but especially with the FED. And we simply have the task of adapting monetary policy to new economic policy conditions. The important thing related to this law, and perhaps the reason for which the Czech National Bank comes with this law, is the situation on our mortgage and real estate market. I have already talked about this mortgage, and I have pointed out to the figures that it is not going anywhere when compared with other, for example, European countries. I would still like to stop at the development of real estate prices, because this is certainly another part that the Czech National Bank is afraid that the mortgage market will overheat and that there will be a bubble in the real estate market. Of course, the price of assets or the rising price of real estate is partly due to the fact that a lot of mortgages are being provided, but for the most part, let's face it, dear colleagues, the price of real estate is also rising largely because it does not stop in the Czech Republic. The number of completed flats in the Czech Republic is dramatically lower than it has been in recent years. Of course, it is not the Czech National Bank's fault, especially the regulation of construction and planning. I understand that there is no comparison between Prague and the rest of the Republic, but really, when you look at statistics, the rising price of real estate is actually largely caused by building a shortage of flats. And it is the loose monetary policy to which the Czech National Bank contributed that motivates more and more clients to take mortgage loans and buy an ever smaller number of real estates and flats, which can lead to nothing more than the price of real estate rising dramatically. And the very fact that property prices are rising leads to the fact that many especially young families and starting couples cannot afford their own new housing. He can't afford it because of the price increase. [[19.00 hours]] And the Czech National Bank comes up with another regulation that, in addition to higher property prices, will complicate life for those who demand credit in the sense that they have to prove to what extent they can finance the loan. We're really limiting here, and I'm not afraid to say it if this amendment is approved -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-06-ps2013-057-09-007-010.u35	Ambassador, I apologize for entering your speech, but it's 7:00. Today's meeting day was within 19 o'clock. I'm sorry. I'm gonna read an apology. From 6:30 pm today, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura apologizes for work reasons. But I'm afraid your next speech won't be able to continue. Not a last sentence. That means the 19th hour has arrived, and I am interrupting this item and interrupting the Chamber of Deputies meeting by 9 a.m. tomorrow morning. Thank you, and I wish you the rest of the day.
