ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-000-000.u1	Madam, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government, Minister, I am opening the 60th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome to all of you. The Organizing Committee of the Chamber of Deputies set up a proposal for a 60th meeting on 24 August and the invitation was sent to you on Friday 25 August. I'd like you all to sign up with your ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who's asking for a replacement card. Mr Kučera votes with card 79 and I vote with card 80. We would now proceed to the designation of the two verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we designate Mrs Jana Hnyková and Mr Václav Klučka. I'll ask if anyone else has a suggestion. If that is not the case, then we will vote. I am opening the vote and I ask who agrees that the verifiers be Mrs Hnyková and Mr Klučka. Who opposes this proposal? It's vote number one. It's registered 90, 79, no one. This proposal has been adopted and I note that we have appointed the verifiers of the 60th meeting to Mrs Hnyková and Mr Klučka. I would like to inform you that, before the opening of the meeting, they asked to apologise for their failure to participate in the negotiations by the following Members of the Government: Mr Adamec within 15 hours without giving any reason, Mr Číp - health reasons, Mr Gabal - foreign travel, Mr Gabrhel - health reasons, Mrs Halíková - personal reasons, Mr Holík - working reasons, Mr Horáček - working reasons, Mrs Kovářová - personal reasons, Mr Lank - working reasons, Mrs Lorencová - working reasons, Mrs Nováková - personal reasons, Mr Nykl - health reasons, Mrs Nytrová - without giving reason, Mr Okleštěk - working reasons, Mr Rykala - personal reasons, Mr Seďa from 18.30 - working reasons, Mr Šidlo - health reasons, Mr Váňa - working reasons, Mr Zemánek - working reasons, Mr Zlatuška - foreign travel. The members of the government apologize to Minister Šlechtová - foreign travel and Minister Štech - health reasons. So many apologies. We will now proceed to the establishment of the 60th meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. First of all, I will introduce you to the only proposal on which today's grémium has agreed on the 60th session, which we propose to include in the agenda a new item entitled Final Report of the Chamber of Deputies of Investigation to investigate whether there has been an infringement in connection with the possible unauthorised acquisition of files of law enforcement authorities or information from these files and whether the information thus obtained has not been used to influence political competition or destabilise the democratic rule of law. This is what we propose to include in the News, Proposals and more. Mrs Vernerová has card number 81. So much for my party on the agenda. I have three applications so far, and all three are from Mr Okamura, so I will ask him to take the floor. [[Mr. Kováčik is reporting a word in front of the benches.]] And I apologise to the honourable Member - with priority rights, the President of the club. [[Mr Kováčik prefers Members of Okamura with a gesture.]] The President gives up his priority right. In that case, Mr Okamura has the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-000-000.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, in view of the scandalous vote by Czech MEPs in the European Parliament, which, in our view, is completely contrary to the majority opinion of the Czech society, I propose the inclusion of an extraordinary item on the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies meeting entitled The Discussion of the Impact of Resolutions adopted by the European Parliament, which are called ensuring the functionality of the redistribution process and the European Union Strategy for Syria to the Czech Republic. On 18 May 2017, the European Parliament approved the resolutions with the above-mentioned names. Unfortunately, MEPs from the Czech Republic also contributed to the approval of these resolutions. What is the content of these resolutions? First of all, it must be underlined that both resolutions form one political unit with a fundamental impact on the Czech Republic. The European Parliament has made it clear to these resolutions to continue the redistribution of migrants to the Member States of the European Union on the basis of compulsory quotas. In these resolutions, the so-called 'promoting' is once again encouraged. The immigration crisis and its associated redistribution quotas, this time in conjunction with the clearly declared political intention to punish disobedient countries. Namely, the following Czech MEPs voted in favour of one or both resolutions: ANO Telička, ANO Ježek from the movement, Charamzová - ANO movement, Dlabajová - ANO movement, Poc - ČSSD, Poche - ČSSD, Zdechovskýý - KDU-ČSL, Šojdrová - KDU-ČSL, Svoboda - KDU-ČSL, Štětina - TOP 09, Niedermayer - TOP 09 and Polčák - Stan - the mayor movement. Sadly, the ČSSD, YES and KDU-ČSL and other parties are constantly lying to citizens when they now claim to be against migrants before the elections when, in fact, their MEPs vote exactly the other way around. The European Parliament has given a clear political mandate on possible sanctions against the Czech Republic. As I said, unfortunately, representatives of the Czech Republic voted in favour of these resolutions, namely Members moved YES, ČSSD, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09 and STAN, which is the movement Mayors and Independents. And as I have already said, both revolutions represent one political whole threatening the interests of the Czech Republic. If anyone is yelling now "I didn't do anything, I voted for only one!"is an alibi or political analfabet. Today it is necessary that the Chamber of Deputies clearly reject these resolutions and apply to the sovereign interests of the Czech Republic. That is why I am asking you to include this extraordinary item in the House's agenda. We must make it clear that the fundamental concern of the Czech Republic is the support of the legal government of Syria, with which our countries maintain diplomatic relations. This government already controls most of Syria's territory, and if we are to provide assistance, it can be dealt with locally. There's no reason to lure migrants from Syria. Those fleeing Syria are primarily defeated Islamists representing a major security risk. Above all, however, we must say that threats by sanctions for not accepting migrants are a gross attack on our country's sovereignty. It is incredible where the ambitions of the political structures of the European Union supported by the Czech MEPs for the movement YES, ČSSD, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09 and STAN are openly headed. If you want to remain silent about this, you will actually resign from the sovereignty of the country. I firmly believe that the people in this country have had enough silence and will say so in the elections. I would like to ask all of you to support the inclusion of this point and to discuss the adoption of a clear position defending the interests of our country against the European Union. In this context, I recall that our Freedom and Direct Democracy movement, the SPD, has repeatedly proposed a referendum on the Czech Republic's withdrawal from the European Union so that our citizens themselves can decide their future in their country. And you, Members of other parties, are constantly rejecting this proposal because you do not want democracy, but you are in favour of the Brussels dictatorship.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-000-000.u3	Yes, Mr Member, and you may proceed with two more applications if there is no objection from Mr Kováčik. It's not like that. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-000-000.u4	Mr President, I think it is scandalous how you are running this meeting here because you are deliberately making the Chamber of Deputies noisy so I can't be heard. When the Chamber of Deputies is louder than that, you're making peace here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-000-000.u5	Ambassador, please - I will ask the House for peace.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-000-000.u6	And please keep these election manners somewhere else.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-000-000.u7	I beg you not to discuss with me and discuss with me what you have prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-000-000.u8	Well, I'm asking you to take it easy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-000-000.u9	That's what I just did, and you can continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-000-000.u10	Well, after I told you. [[Laughs in the hall.]] There. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose once again, just this year for the 14th time, so that we can finally discuss and adopt the law on a national referendum. I'm koukat into the House meeting program, and to my unkind surprise, this law of the government coalition has once again eliminated the program. I propose here the referendum law for almost four years and the government coalition of the ČSSD, the ANO movement and the KDU-ČSL movement have repeatedly rejected my proposal, although the government itself promised the people in the programme statement. [[14.10 hours]] The fact is that neither Bohuslav Sobotka, nor Andrej Babiš, nor Pavel Bělobrádek, nor Miroslav Kalousek, nor Petr Fiala of the ODS want democracy. And I'm not just talking about a referendum. You have rejected our proposal here in the House on the direct personal responsibility of ministers and generals, and you have also rejected our proposal on the direct choice and appeal of politicians. You have also rejected our proposals by which we have addressed the current inadequate state of execution and usury. You have also rejected our proposal for entrepreneurs and businessmen to pay VAT from actual invoices paid. You have also rejected our proposal for the payment of social benefits to children, such as childbirth, to be conditional on a work history and a clean criminal record. You have also denied us the ban on promoting Islam in the Czech Republic and much more. But back to the referendum law. Here in this particular example, we all see your government constantly tricking citizens. You always promise something, even in writing, to sign this promise to each other publicly, and then, of course, forget it. And at the very end of the day, you always argue with each other about who lies more and steals more. You are showing a truly ruthless political comedy for which citizens pay you dearly. When we think about unfulfilled government promises, there's a lot of them. And the result of your four-year reign is that people don't really have any more left in their wallets than they did in the previous reigns of Miroslav Kalousek and ODS. There is even less left for pensioners after the auction, i.e. de facto nothing. The government of the ČSSD, the movement YES and KDU-ČSL have completely failed. You didn't do retirement reform, so the elderly are living. You have not solved the execution and usury system, you have not solved the support of families with children, so young working families are afraid to have more children, and instead you are supporting inadaptable citizens who are skilled but do not work in the long term. You've basically made the business a bureaucrat. During your reign, security has deteriorated significantly, so soldiers and policemen with machine guns are walking the streets. People are increasingly concerned about the worsening availability of health care and also the results of Czech schoolchildren are worsening in international comparison. The Supreme Audit Office of the SAO repeatedly draws attention to overpriced contracts at ministries led by the ANO movement, namely the Ministry of Defence, and also at ministries led by the ČSSD and KDU-ČSL. Even cleaning orders are overpriced several times. In summary, what I've been saying is still true from the beginning. Until we establish a direct enforcement of the obligations of politicians, a programme that promotes our movement Freedom and Direct Democracy, the SPD, we will not move anywhere. It's all over again. I request a firm inclusion of the bill on referendums, press 559, for today's agenda of the meeting right after the already firmly placed points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-000-000.u11	For today, after the fixed points. Yes. And please request a third application.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-000-000.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, over and over again, I urge you that the House, in connection with the constant terrorist attacks in Europe committed by Islamic terrorists, should place a proposal for an amendment to criminal law firmly as a item in the programme, press 985, which has prepared our Freedom and Direct Democracy movement, the SPD, and which extends the criminality of promoting a movement that seeks to suppress the rights and freedoms of citizens and which provokes hatred, also to the criminality of promoting such ideology. At present, only such a movement is criminal in the Czech Republic, but not ideology. We are all shaken by the spread of murder in the name of Islam throughout Europe. It is just the tip of the iceberg, because there is also daily violence, bullying of women and crime associated with confessing and promoting this ideology, which does not know gender equality, equality of religion, civil equality, or human rights, or democracy. Islam is a destructive ideology that destroys Western society and enables many of you here to be called integration and multicultural. Of course, we in the SPD reject the ideas that Islam presents. Terrorism is just a method of fighting, fighting for some ideology. If we allow ideology to say that there are no rights, but only obligations to Alláh, then you will never achieve peace and harmony with democracy with people infected with such propaganda. It's not a false warning. This year, leading Islamists presented the false face of Islam even on the campus of Charles University. And it all went under the scandalous auspices of the Rector of Charles University, Professor Tomáš Zima. It can be said that this ideology is even more dangerous than Hitler's Nazism, as it has been killing and warring for over 13 centuries in its name. This ideology destroyed Greece's civilization in Asia Minor and ancient civilization in Egypt. The Germán did not destroy Roman civilization, but once again the Islamic occupation of the Mediterranean led to the fall of the greatest empire of those days. Europe subsequently resisted for centuries the constant attacks of Muslims from all sides, and the war of Muslims for world domination never ended. The ally of the Czech government, the Turkish President, openly claims to conquer Europe by Muslims. Islam is the ideology of war. Islamic ideology cannot be compared to Christianity or other religions. While Ježíš proclaimed a secular state and nonviolence, the Koran and Sunni clearly command the battle by all means for the victory of Islam on the entire planet and proclaim that this fight is endless. Ladies and gentlemen, one's freedom ends where the other's freedom begins, and Islam's freedom ends the moment it denies our freedom and our rights. Therefore, I ask you once again to include our amendment to criminal law, press 985, where we also want to build, so that once again in the Czech Republic there is a criminal ideology that proclaims hatred. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-000-000.u13	I'm just gonna ask where you want to put it. If this also applies after fixed points?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-000-000.u14	Please also follow the fixed points today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-000-000.u15	Yes. Chairman Kováčik.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-000-000.u16	Mr President, Madam Government, ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a good day and a successful course of this - let us believe - last meeting of the Chamber of Deputies in this parliamentary term. I'll start with history. After it was approved and adopted by the Constitution of the Czech Republic, it contained several institutes that were not fulfilled, for example, the Institute of Senate existence was only fulfilled in 1996 and, to this day, there are voices that question the existence of this institute. I will not now assess the existence of the Senate as a constitutional institution, but I will evaluate that the KSČM and its MPs have since the beginning of the Constitution of the Czech Republic realized that they are the institutes that are included in the Constitution and that need to be fulfilled. These are the elements of direct democracy which the Constitutional Devotor intended to use to supplement or pierce important things to a parliamentary democracy, or representative. The main thing KSČM has been promoting since the beginning and, in each parliamentary term, at least once, often more times, in various forms and forms, has been proposed by the Institute of General referendums. It is not just some specific issues, such as the referendum on our accession to NATO, which has not been adopted despite the fact that we have proposed them, or other specific thematic referendums, but that the Constitution should also be fulfilled in that crucial element of direct democracy, which is the general referendum. This is just a historic excursion, that not only are you here in the Chamber of Deputies today, you and I conclude the fourth year of your term and you had it in your programs, maybe you had it in some form of various statements, like government. We're putting together accounts and finding that this hasn't been fulfilled again. I would like to ask that, when the KSČM proposal has not already been adopted, we give the opportunity to discuss at least that government proposal, which is not entirely ideal, but it is a matter of substance, not small nuances, and therefore allow me to propose the inclusion of press 559 - notice, a relatively low number, even some government proposal is being pushed - to today, as the first point, because, in my opinion, a referendum is a very important matter, alternatively, for today after fixed points. My second proposal is a proposal which I also do not present for the first time. It is a large part of our republic and it turns out that this part will expand over the coming periods, increase rather than narrow down which has been affected - and some districts have been repeatedly affected - the consequences of the catastrophic impact, let's say, climate change. [[14.20 hours]] Sucho, which caused for example in the southern part of the district of Třebíč, in a large part of the district of Znojmo, Břeclav, Hodonín, Brno-venkov, but also in some districts of Central Moravia or Central Bohemia region a huge fall in harvests, especially cereals, rape and maize, deserves to pay attention not only by systemic measures to retain water in the countryside, we have also supported this and we have also proposed a number of years and a number of electoral periods quite often until the last moment after the ridicule of some of you others, for example that climate change does not actually exist, we have heard for a long time. But no one is doubting now that in some companies in the southern part of the district of Třebíč two thirds - not two thirds, two thirds - less, in some companies in the northern part of the district Znojmo has harvested 10, 15, 20 percent of the usual harvest, so something is wrong. The memorials say that the year 1947, which in the last century, say, was the greatest disaster in terms of the lack of precipitation or their division, is a major disaster for farmers. So I would like to propose a point that would address this issue of direct compensation to those enterprises that have been affected by catastrophic drought so that they can start a new crop. It is usually established now, for example rape is already after its agrotechnical term, after the optimal sowing term. I would therefore like to approve my proposal, which is called the Government Report on compensation for enterprises affected by this year's catastrophic drought. Thank you for your attention. I would like to include this as an alternative for tomorrow, afternoon negotiations before already firmly ranked points. If this is not accepted, for tomorrow morning's meeting after discussing the fixed points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-000-000.u17	Mr President, only your first proposal and its second alternative, that is to say, press 559 on today's fixed points is identical to what Mr Okamura has proposed. That means we will vote on his proposal first. You suggested two alternatives...
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-000-000.u18	In the first alternative, I proposed today as the first point, not after the fixed points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-000-000.u19	Yes, that's voteable. The second alternative was after the fixed points, which is identical to Mr Okamura's proposal. [[Messenger. - Yes, thank you.]] We have made that clear, and please Vice-President Vondráček with priority rights. Mrs Kovářová still has card number 83. Please, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-000-000.u20	Thank you. He apologizes to his colleagues that I am entering a block of proposals, but I don't think it's an abuse of preferential rights. I would like to respond to what has been said here by Mr Okamura. So, Mr Okamura, through the President, I will read you a letter from MEP Martina Dlabajová on the scandalous vote that was to take place in Strasbourg. Lying claims have again appeared in the media that I, together with other colleagues in the European Parliament, voted to grant sanctions to the Czech Republic to reject relocation quotas for refugees. I would like to say, first of all, that the relocation quotas are rejected as a solution to the migration crisis for a long time. In no way do I see them as a solution that would be acceptable to Member States, let alone effective, which has already been proven in practice several times. In all the votes, I have therefore always opposed their adoption. That vote, which received unprecedented media attention and for which I and my colleagues were unfairly criticized, took place on 18 May 2017 at a plenary session in Strasbourg. The resolution on ensuring the functioning of the redistribution process was indeed voted on that day. This resolution does not refer directly to the granting of sanctions for the Czech Republic or other Member States, but also to the content of the report, which calls for respect for migration quotas, I voted against the resolution. You can see for yourself through the electronic record of the vote. - And sends a link to the relevant pages. - I have also previously informed citizens about this vote on my website. Another vote took place on the same day, in which the European Parliament adopted a resolution on the European Union's strategy in Syria. Despite the fact that the resolution is closely related to the migration crisis, it concerned humanitarian aid to the Syrian population, so it does not in any way mention the migration quotas directly, nor the sanctions for rejecting them. That is why I supported this resolution. And how did the false report on our vote come about? Some of our politicians, such as Mr Mach or Mr Okamura, have simply deliberately distorted information and spread lies with their false statements. I am pleased that Czech society is interested in European affairs and politics. However, I wish that the information from one source should be more verified and made up of different opinions based on true information and facts. Greetings Martina Dlabajová, Member of the European Parliament. So, co-worker, this is classic fake news. And stop carrying that paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-000-000.u21	I'll ask you to address me through me. Mr. Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-000-000.u22	Mr President, colleagues, Tomio Okamura is lying here, or he is actually using fake news, as our MEPs voted on imposing sanctions on the Czech Republic for not accepting migrants. Through chain e-mails, hoax spreads among Czech citizens about how Czech traitors from the European Parliament voted to impose sanctions on the Czech Republic for not accepting migrants. This was created after the blog by MEP Petr Mach for Free, who had the need to show that he voted against. Niedermayer, Polčák, voted in favour of Pospíšil, Štětina, absent: Maštálka, Kohlíček, everyone else was against. It must be pointed out that, moreover, the KDU-ČSL MEPs were rebelling, thus voting against the official position of their party. Mr Mach has come up with this completely illogically with a vote on a resolution in Syria that has pointed out that people are still suffering in this country and that this is the greatest humanitarian crisis since World War II. The resolution in general has only a recommended character and absolutely does not commit to anything. While the People's Party saw a way to stop people from fleeing to other countries and, above all, the scamming economic migrants, Mr Mach has chosen one sentence from the resolution that one of the many ways to help refugees from Syria is to give them asylum. He has the right to this highly alibiistic view, only he did not really associate these two things in one article with a pretty misleading title. The fact remains, however, that the Czech People's Members of the European Parliament did not really vote to impose sanctions on the Czech Republic. So I would like to call on Mr President Tomio Okamura to apologize for this false information because it is a lie. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-000-000.u23	Mr Korte has card number 84, Mrs Rutová has card number 77. I do not see anyone else with the right of priority, so please Mr Farský, after him Mrs Pekarová Adamová, and then I see Mr Svoboda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-000-000.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I would like your attention to House press number 1138. It's an amendment to the Sales Recording Act. We presented it before the holiday to the system in that it proposes to postpone the third and fourth wave of EET by nine months. In this I would like to ask you to look around and look over the electoral horizon that awaits us, of course, in October, to realize that on March 1, 2018, the third wave of EET is due to start, which means that car parks, electricians, craftsmen, carpenters, gasmen, watermen, nurses, hairdressers, everyone will have to get electronic sales records, everyone will have to get a system, connect, get printers. And let's react to the reality that it's not like they're buying it on February 28th or that on March 1st, it's miraculously happening to everyone. [[14.30 hours]] These are the people who will prepare for it. Many may consider continuing business with the end of the year. And they will be able to take it before the House, whether it meets after the elections in whatever composition, will be able to decide to change or even cancel these other stages of the EET. And so I want to ask you to give us the space to do that on March 1st, these will not be, that it will shift by nine months, as well as those from June 1st, and that it will not hit different farmers' markets, various outdoor events, to the federal life, which, if the EET, to the extent it is proposed, will essentially destroy them. I'm sure we don't agree on this here, and we're not going to find the votes here to cancel the third and fourth EET wave, but I think we're going to give room to compare the statements that appear here - on the one hand, the Ministry of Finance numbers that say about some 100% increase in income, on the other hand, the Czech Statistical Office, which is talking about 10 percent. If the enormous influence and the billions we demand from businessmen to invest, if they have any effect and meaning at all. And that's what I think needs to be evaluated, and that takes time. Therefore, I ask you not to punish the most conscientious and honest ones who would start preparing for the third and fourth EET waves on March 1 and June 1. That's why I'm asking you to move this term through press 1138, and I suggest we put it first this Friday. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-000-000.u25	Yes. I beg Mrs Adamová and after that, Mr Svoboda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-000-000.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, let me once again propose the inclusion of a new point, which would be called the Resolution of the Chamber of Deputies on the human rights situation in the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. But, as many may not remember, it is about three quarters of a year when I have proposed the re-entry of this point. This has not been achieved so far, and I think that the last meeting of the Chamber of Deputies in this parliamentary term is right for us to discuss this point. The situation that is happening today, of course, at the time I thought about it, has not yet been so heated. But I think the background of events is even more encouraging. Let me give you a brief explanation. In the past, the DPRK has faced and, of course, still faces criticism because of human rights violations, despite the fact that, as a UN Member State, it has acceded to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and a number of other international documents anchoring the protection of individual human rights. On 21 March 2013, the United Nations Human Rights Council established a Human Rights Commission for Investigation in the DPRK. On the basis of the facts found during the almost annual investigation, the Commission issued a report on 7 February 2014. With some conclusions she already liked to introduce you - if you would pay attention - to me. [[The President: Colleagues and colleagues, I beg you to remain calm. Thank you.]] For example, the report states that there have been systematic, extensive and serious violations of human rights by the DPRK, its institutions and representatives. According to UN findings, the DPRK meets many attributes of a totalitarian state. The government of a single political party led by a single person based on a detailed leadership ideology. Gender and social discrimination is used to maintain a solid social structure in which political resistance is less likely to arise. State monopolization of access to food is used as an important means of promoting political loyalty. Food is primarily distributed to those who are useful in surviving the current political system, at the expense of those who are considered expendable. The report also notes that the cornerstone of the DPRK's political system is a huge political and security apparatus that strategically uses surveillance, coercion, fear and punishment to prevent any dissent from being expressed. Public executions and violent "disappearance" to political prison camps serve as a means of terrorizing and subjugating the population. Ladies and gentlemen, there is much more to these findings, and I believe that we will have the opportunity to debate them and to adopt a joint resolution at the end of the discussion. Therefore, I would like to ask you for your support in voting to include this item in the agenda. I am of the opinion that it is the lower chamber of the Parliament of the State, which has passed through the experience of the Communist regime's government and whose citizens have managed to break free from the chains of this regime, that it is obliged to strongly define itself against a similar or even worse practice of the regime in this country. For the sake of completeness, I add that the proposal was discussed in the subcommittee on human rights, of which I am the President, as well as in Parliament's permanent delegation to the Interinstitutional Union for the Republic of Korea, the President of which Radka Maxová cooperated on the wording of this resolution. I propose to include this new point as the first point after already firmly included this Friday 8. 9. Thank you for your attention and for your support on this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-000-000.u27	Yes. And please, Mr Svoboda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-000-000.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to include the 1086 press as the first item after the fixed points of today's day. Reason for this proposal. By the law we adopted, Law 95 on conditions and the acquisition of professional competence, as amended, we abolished the field of practical physician for children and adolescents. A field that, in our opinion, is very important precisely because it takes care of the children's population, that it is taken care of every day, especially in a preventive way, to prevent the development of serious diseases in children. The field of practical doctor for children and adolescents is a field that is currently - I do not like to use that word, but is currently in crisis. The age composition of our children's doctors for children and adolescents is significantly close to 60 years. A significant part of these doctors and doctors will end in their posts in the coming time and children's facilities, children's offices will remain without doctors. If we were to return to the system a general practitioner for children and adolescents, we would have achieved that doctors who are interested in this field would report. At present we know that interest in this field is growing very significantly, and I know today that of the 80 graduates who wanted to make this field, after its abolition they will not actually join this field, they will look for some other way of realising their education. It's a very serious matter. A practical field for children and adolescents in their education allows or would allow graduates of medical faculties to get into practice a year earlier. And every year, every day that young people who finish their new education get there early will be very important to our young generation. At the same time, this amendment leaves absolutely open space for pediatricians, if they decide to leave the hospital, to move freely into this field. I think that the main objection that this prevents the passage of clinical pediatricians into the field of pediatricians for children and adolescents, this amendment completely removes, and I am convinced that it is a novel that is needed to remove the threat of inadequate care for our children at the earliest possible time. If you have children, you know how difficult it is to have a good practical doctor for children and adolescents today, and you also know that you need them almost daily. Thank you and again, I ask that you support the inclusion of this press 1086 in today's programme, after the fixed points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-000-000.u29	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Next on the agenda? Mr. President of the Election Commission.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-000-000.u30	Colleagues and colleagues, good afternoon, I'm traditionally addressing you on behalf of the electoral committee that met today an hour ago. We have a number of voting points in the agenda, not yet firmly, but in accordance with the time limits under the Rules of Procedure it is possible to carry out tomorrow or to complete one electoral point. Specifically, it is the completion of the second round of the election to the Council of the Czech Press Office. We agreed on the committee, and I also discussed this with the presidents of the MPs, on such a proposal that we would place this point as if in a floating way, which means tomorrow on Wednesday for ten minutes before the end of the morning part of the programme. This means that the point would not be placed firmly for some time so that we do not interrupt the debate either on the first point or on the third reading. But I repeat ten minutes before the end of the morning part of the program and it would be the second round of the election to the ČTK Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-000-000.u31	Thank you, too. If there is no one to vote, we shall proceed to the vote. [[The chairman is gonging.]] I'll read the apologies. Minister chovanec today from 14.30 to the end of the day for working reasons, Mrs Adamová between 15.45 and midnight for reasons of doctor's visit, Mr Heger today between 15 and 19 for reasons of employment, Minister Pelikán all day for ministerial reasons, Mr Klaška from the beginning of the meeting until 5 p.m. for reasons of employment, Mr Kaňkovský from the beginning to 16 p.m. for family reasons. I have here an apology from Minister Ludvík, but I see him here. [[Minister Louis specifies this information outside the microphone.]] So the apology goes from 4:00 p.m. to the end of the day on account of urgent business matters. So many apologies. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. First of all, we would vote on the proposal from the Gremium, that is a new point in the final report of the commission of inquiry and so on. I am opening the vote and I am asking who agrees with this new point. Who's against it? The vote has order number 2. Registered 167, for 141, versus 1. This proposal was adopted. The Prime Minister has card No. 86. We will now vote on Mr Okamura's proposals. First, a new item on the agenda, to discuss the impact of the resolutions adopted by the European Parliament. Can it be this way, Mr. Ambassador? [[Yes.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? The vote has order number 3. It's logged in 170, for 8, versus 106. The motion was not accepted. The next proposal is to put the meeting on the agenda, firmly, the press 559, which is the bill on referendums, and this is today after firmly placed points. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? It's a serial number four vote. It's registered 169, for 34, versus 102. This proposal has not been adopted. Mr Okamura's final proposal is to include him in the meeting, firmly, to the press, 985, which is an amendment to the criminal law, on the basis of the fixed points today. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? It's a five-order vote. Registered 169, for 14, against 92. This proposal has not been adopted. Mr Kováčik is proposing again press 559, firmly as... Just a little more detail. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-000-000.u32	Thank you. I'm sorry. Just to be clear. It is a government bill on referendum, press 559. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-000-000.u33	Thank you. So press 559 as the first item in today's meeting. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? It's a serial number six vote. It's logged in 170, 54, 62. This proposal was not adopted. The second alternative put forward by President Kováčik has already been voted in Mr Okamura's proposal. We still have a second proposal from the President, and that is a new point, which would be the Government Report on compensation for agricultural holdings affected by catastrophic drought. It would be first in the option for tomorrow afternoon as the first point. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? It's a seven-order vote. It's logged in 171, 105, versus 16. This proposal was adopted. Mr Farský wishes to include press 1138, firmly for Friday as the first item. So it's a shift in the efficiency of electronic records, or stage three. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? It's a serial number eight vote. It's logged in 171, 79, versus 58. The motion was not accepted. Mrs Adamová wishes a new point, namely the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies on the human rights situation in the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. He wishes it as a fixed point on this Friday after the fixed points. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? It's a serial number nine vote. It's logged in 170, for 56, versus 39. The motion was not accepted. Mr Svoboda proposes a press of 1086 for today after a fixed item. I have just the information here that this press has not been discussed by the Health Committee, but I think we're going to take a vote. I'm opening the vote and asking who agrees. Who's against it? It's a serial number 10 vote. It's logged in 171, for 60, against 52. This proposal was not adopted. [[14.50 hours]] We still have a proposal from the electoral committee to include the second round of the election of the Czech News Agency for tomorrow 10 minutes before the lunch break. Are you voting, Mr. Chairman, or are you already voting? [[I vote.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? It's vote number 11. It's logged in 171, for 159, against 1. This proposal was adopted. I believe that we voted on all the proposals relating to the agenda. I do not see any objections, so we will vote on the whole proposal for the 60th meeting, as it has been tabled in writing and amended by approved amendments. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? It's vote number 12. The registration is 170, for 154, against no one, and I note that the agenda of the meeting has been approved. Before we proceed to discuss the bills passed and rejected by the Senate, I propose, at the request of the President of the Senate, to allow the following senators, Jitka Seitlová, Daniela Filipiová and Miluša Horská, and Senators František Bublan, Miroslav Nenutil, Ladislav Kos, Miloš Vystrčil, Petr Vícha, Jaroslav Větrovskýý and Michael Canov. Information on the amendments has been distributed to you in your mail. I will ask and initiate the vote on who agrees with the appearance of appointed senators and senators. Who's against it? It's vote number 13. It's logged in 170, for 132, against 1. This proposal was adopted and the House therefore gave its consent. Opening point
