ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u1	28. Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to the ratification of the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between Canada, on the one hand, and the European Union and its Member States, on the other hand /German press 1000/ - Second reading This proposal was renegotiated yesterday, September 12th. We interrupted it in the debate. I ask that the seats at the rapporteur's table be taken up by the Minister of Industry and Trade Jiří Havlíček and the rapporteur of the Foreign Committee Matěj Fichtner, who reported only a short time late arrival, and, if necessary, would be followed by colleague Šrámek before Mr Fichtner arrives - so I would ask the rapporteur of the Foreign Committee to Mr Šrámek... [[Mr Srámek is also absent.]] Which I don't see either. So I'm probably gonna have to stop for a little while until at least one of the reporters gets here. Plus, I have to ask one of my fellow Vice-Presidents to replace me for a moment, because I've been duly logged into the debate since yesterday... Okay. I ask the presidents of the parliamentary clubs, or the representative of the parliamentary club YES - because both rapporteurs are members of this club - when they assume... I've got word from my colleague Fichtner that he'll be here in ten minutes... so... [[Members shall propose that negotiations be suspended until the time the rapporteur arrives.]] Okay, well, I'm gonna interrupt for ten minutes and we'll start at 9:20, okay? At the same time, I will ask Vice-President Vondráček to replace me, and I have an agreement with him, because I have duly signed up for the debate. I'm interrupting the meeting until 9:20.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to ask you to take your seats. It's 9:20, we'll continue the adjourned negotiations. Vice-President Vojtěch Filip, to whom I hereby give the floor, is entered in the debate. I will ask the rapporteur to take his place at the newsstand, all those who have something to discuss in the lobby, not in front of the speaker's desk. Thank you, Mr. Governor. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u3	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I have prepared a few comments on what the Ecumenical Academy has drawn up, in order not to be accused of any ideological lecture. Here's the text, it's long, I'm not going to read it, I'm just going to refer here and there to explain what CETA means, so what is part of such an agreement between the European Union and Canada. Among other things, one of the texts in this explanatory book talks about how this treaty threatens climate-energy policy, how it threatens consumers, how it threatens the rights of citizens of the Czech Republic and how ratification has been carried out in Europe and how it takes place in the Member States, how it affects public procurement. I'll start out untraditionally. When eggs were found in shops in the Czech Republic, which threatened with Salmonella infection, the Czech producer killed out the whole breeding of chickens and made sure that Czech regulations, Czech technical standards, standards for food and consumer protection law apply. When we imported poisoned eggs from another state of the European Union into the Czech Republic, we heard on Czech Television, in Czech Radio, but also in other private media, that it can happen again, that there are simply lower quality requirements for this food in this state, and we even heard from the representative of one producer - and now I don't want to harm any of the companies operating in the Czech Republic, whether it has such or the owner - that the processing of these eggs didn't actually endanger the lives of people and children, because they would have to eat not one or one package, but more packaging. So I'm asking where we're at. Where did we find ourselves in a calm conscience to vote in favour of an international treaty that does not meet any of the standards that the citizens of the Czech Republic were used to? I ask how it is possible that we order our producers and producers when eggs that are not heat processed can - not that something has happened, but they can - cause some epidemic of salmonella, we order to take out the whole breeding, and if we bring it here from abroad, even from the European Union - and we don't have this contract yet, when there are much less strict rules in Canada than we are used to - nothing happens. We're still sorry. And in all this horror, the government of the Czech Republic, with a calm conscience, will say that it will spend half a billion crowns to buy out production equipment and technical resources from the company that produces Czech pork here. And buy it out for what? To destroy this business! And we're talking about how the butter gets expensive, how the milk gets expensive, how the food gets expensive, and even though we're here arguing about whether it's going to be in education, we're going to spend half a billion on buying out a production business that's in profit, and then we're going to pay the money to liquidate it? With taxpayers' money, this government is liquidating a business that produces Czech products for Czech wages, and we are going to try to liquidate it for some petty reason? Don't be mad at me. The business is in southern Bohemia, I know it well, I know it well, I know the place, I know even the place that is very well adapted, I also go there regularly, unlike others who have not been there in my life and have been talking about it for a long time. And it really seems to me that part of people here have either gone crazy or are being paid from abroad to liquidate Czech production, to damage Czech citizens, to subdue us to some economic interest of someone else entirely. So, I'm sorry I got a little upset, and I'm saying that contract bothers me. It bothers me, in particular, because it has not reached the standards that I have noted since 1992, 1992, it was still the law of the Federal Assembly of the Czech and Slovak Federal Republic, which was supposed to protect Czech consumers in a modern way. And in spite of this law, we will conclude here a treaty that is contrary to this law and those consumer protection standards that we have secured by law to citizens of the Czech Republic. And what will be our basis if we accept this covenant? That the citizens of the Czech Republic will forgive us? That they won't sue us, the state, for damaging their health? Are you serious about the contract? Do you think we have to accept this, at all costs, harm our own citizens? And if I help myself with a quote, I'll help myself with a health quote. I.e. intellectual property law in the field of pharmaceuticals. Kanaďan are already paying more for prescription drugs than consumers in other developed countries. This is largely due to the intellectual property regime, which is exceptionally favourable to holders of pharmaceutical patents and manufacturers of branded pharmaceuticals. CETA is particularly problematic for Canada because governments require unilateral changes in the regulation of patents that drive drug prices even higher. Okay, so we're gonna get rid of this -- now I'm talking about pig farming -- we're gonna get rid of pharmaceuticals here, too? Because if we import medicines from Canada on the basis of this contract, it will be legal, it will, of course, be on the basis of this contract without customs, etc. But isn't it a little silly that we're in a situation where our manufacturer is worse off than the manufacturer abroad, and we're gonna subsidize it? I'm going to ask quite simply - for whom is it advantageous? Is this beneficial for Europe? Is this beneficial for the Czech Republic? Doesn't that reduce our sovereign decision-making? Do you all really feel that you are sitting here, indifferent to the fact that someone is ordering us things that we have legally adjusted so that no one can order us to do so and cannot violate the rights of those consumers, the rights of citizens of the Czech Republic? [[9.30 hours]] And we're handing over the market here in the 1990s, we've got chains here that say that even all seven out of ten products are from the Czech Republic, but then the week is announced French, Greek, very problematic from the point of view of advertising, and other weeks in which it doesn't apply. And we were discussing the great market power here, but there were people who said it was a threat to the free market. All right, so if it threatens the free market, then the great supporter of the free market is the People's Republic of China, and we will, too, and then what are we going to do with the Czech price level, the Czech wage level, with the producers in the Czech Republic? Are we gonna say sorry to them, or is somebody gonna say sorry, and we're gonna take you out? By any chance, is it not a promise, a constitutional promise by a Member of the Czech Parliament, that he will take care of the interests of all the people? Should I quote this from the Constitution of the Czech Republic? And where are the interests? Are these the interests of the citizens of the Czech Republic who will vote for you when you are on the ballots in October of this year, or are they the interests of the citizens of other countries that are more important to you? What makes you want to approve this contract if it's disadvantageous for us? When it reduces the standard of health protection, consumer protection against what we have here since 1992, in the Czech Republic since 1993, because Act No. 4/1993 Coll. was this law transferred to the legal order of the Czech Republic by the so-called receptionist standard? Not all the laws of the Federal Assembly have been transferred in this way. But this one's on. And we haven't changed it before we negotiate the ratification of this treaty. And I don't see why we should ratify it. It is probably not enough to inform us that when we faced quotas, the truth, unlike Hungary and Slovakia, we did not sue the European Court of Justice, forgive me, the Court of Justice of the European Union has newly called it to be precise, but the Commissioner has told us that if we do not take over the migrants, he will order us to do so in a court of law. And do you think that this is not contrary to the resolution for which most of us voted that the Czech Government should not accept this and that it should take all steps not to do so? Where is your sense of sovereignty, the sovereignty of your own nation? And if not sovereignty, which some consider to be shared (?) better than the sovereignty of the state, where at least there is a sense of identity, to identify with the needs of citizens of the Czech Republic? I deliberately don't use the nation to make you accuse me of some nationalism. But I ask: " How is it that we are not considering this? Is that some kind of technical standard? Is it just a matter of some kind of reasoning that we're not in any danger of? Is there no danger to us in the matter of pharmaceuticals, food, environmental protection? Did you read the contract? Do you understand what's in it? Are you okay with the fact that part of the meeting has been classified? And you don't mind that chemical factories in Europe are somehow taking power over parliaments, and now I don't just mean the Czech Republic that corporations are stronger than states? Should we steal the state? The question is completely legitimate, because if we're gonna be in the tow of regulations, of individual ones, and I've been here last week, about everything not being a business, then those who yelled at me that everything isn't a business, then why is it that, excuse me, a business that humiliates the citizens of the Czech Republic, takes away their rights of consumer protection, deprives them of the right to healthy food that will not be processed from genetically modified agricultural crops, that really doesn't bother you? None of you guys are gonna come out today about this not being a deal? Okay, but in that case, I can't trust you with the only word that you guys who yelled at me here last week said. Because there was no damage to the Czech citizen in the contract for the abolition of the Act on the Prohibition of Export to the Power Plant in Bušehr, no standards. There was only the fact that Czech companies can or cannot export abroad, while here we argue that something can be imported here, which the Czech producer must not launch on the market. Why don't you mind? Where were we? Can you tell me why we have not listened here, at least in committees between first and second reading, as argued in the European Parliament? And that was not just the members of the United European Left and Nordic Green Left faction, it was a number of members of other political groups, either on the left or on the right. This isn't a right-wing dispute. This is a dispute about whether we feel we have our own sovereignty and ability to protect our citizens, but most of them don't care. Most people say, "Excuse me - I'm not gonna quote exactly, and I'm not gonna say who the author of that statement is that he'd rather be wrong about the American president than be right about anyone else." And I will not allow myself to think that way when it comes to such a serious matter as genetically modified food when it comes to reducing the quality of products for a citizen of the Czech Republic. And if I am sorry, I did not mind, as Minister Zaorálek said here, the general agreement on cooperation with Canada, although it had a number of peripetia, but did not mind, because on this basis we can get into discussion about what is the interest of the citizens of Canada and what is the interest of the citizens of the Czech Republic, namely Europe. That was a negotiating platform, whereas this is not a negotiating platform. CETA is an international treaty which, according to Article 10 of the Constitution of the Czech Republic, can be superior to the law. In the hierarchy of decisions of the Czech courts, the consumer protection law will take precedence over that. But that fucking bothers me! And it bothers me very much! Since I voted in favour of this consumer protection law several times, I consider it necessary, I consider it my not political, but the civic duty and responsibility of a person who can decide. But I don't want to make a positive decision about this. Why? Because it actually denies my decision from the past, which I have taken, that I am interested in protecting a citizen of the Czech Republic from eating poisonous food, so that he has products that can harm him, so that he doesn't take drugs that can hurt him more than help him, and that, forgive me, he doesn't have a healthy environment, because as soon as those states get that opportunity, as we have recently experienced in the negotiations in Paris, Mr. American President Donald Trump said: although my predecessor has accepted the Paris Agreement, I do not want to accept it. I'm gonna turn her down. What would I keep to some environmental limits? What do I care? Or air protection. We're not doing that as Američan. [[9.40 hours]] If we accept this, who will guarantee that Canada will not say: we now have an advantage, can we produce more because we will export more to Europe, and if we can export more to Europe, in which case we need to increase the production capacity and the limits we have to protect the environment, we simply will not follow? And that's in the contract that they're supposed to have an advantage against us. The treaty is not equal. And again, it's not an ideological thing. It's the Ecumenical Academy that processed it. It's not a look that's just a look at KSČM. It is a view based on a broad discussion of experts from all parts of the political spectrum, experts on what an international treaty can or cannot do in trade relations. Frankly, I am not a liberal, because liberal environment, liberal politics mostly led to a great failure, to things that have caused great difficulties not for individuals, but for the whole nations and states. I am in favour of realizing what interest is and how we can fulfill it to protect a citizen of the Czech Republic. And among other things, it is our duty because we have given such a constitutional promise. When I look at the various chapters of the contract - protection of investments and settlement of disputes in the CETA agreement. Don't you see in that contract that there is a very uneven position of our manufacturers with producers outside the Atlantic Ocean? As a lawyer in the 1990s, I dealt with a number of disputes with foreign subjects, and I was always scared when there was an arbitration clause. At the end of the day, we can take some of the arbitration disputes that the Czech Republic held here, and on the same documents the NOVA TV owners won the dispute, but the Czech Republic lost the dispute and 10,5 billion. Taxpayers paid for the unprotected investment of US CET 21. You will say that the Czech Republic has hired the wrong attorneys at the arbitration court. I'm not convinced they were bad. And when I look at individual disputes, individual decisions of judges, do you think it was in favour of the citizens of the Czech Republic? Don't we pay foreign investors more than other states pay? Are we in an equal position? Can we say we're not gonna close the arbitration clause in those contracts? Will the courts of the Czech Republic decide according to the Czech legal regime if it is in the Czech Republic? And I note that the principle of subsidiarity applies in the European Union. This means that the Czech court is always responsible for the dispute when it comes to a dispute which is protected by European law. The principle of subsidiarity is one of the fundamental principles of the functioning of the judicial system and the judicial system, that is, police, prosecutors, or prosecutors in some states, and the court. That principle applies. The Czech court has the same powers as the Dutch court. But in the arbitration court, if we say it's going to be a Dutch referee, we're not going to end up like the Czech Republic and the American investor on NOVA TV for 10,5 billion. A minus? Doesn't that seem like an unfair position to you? I really don't agree with that. I am convinced that this is the first moment when the Czech Republic finds itself, forgive me, in a subordinate position towards investors. And I understand that when someone puts money in something, they want the money back with the appropriate amount of profit. I'm not the one who screams that all the profits he makes are supposed to stay here. It's not like that in our country. We don't have laws like that. But on the other hand, why should I suffer for him to do more than profit? With regard to the financial services contained in the contract, this is an interesting chapter at all. There's basically no right for a citizen. Banks have rights. And I ask, is this state a bank? Is the citizen in any way impervious to the bank? I'm sure you don't. The Czech Republic is an example of how a citizen cannot behave towards banking institutions. I mean, this is where the most ridiculous bank charge comes in. We should be careful about that before we accept an international treaty, if we actually protect a man who has some savings, puts them in the bank, and they take it away from him instead of paying him for being able to deal with his properly saved money. But we don't care. We are likely to raise our hand - I do not - for the CETA contract and we will be worse off than we are today as citizens of the Czech Republic towards banks. With regard to the chapter on public services, this is an excellent chapter. We have already taken one step here, which I fundamentally disagree with, and we have fought against it, that we have divided the protection of ownership in violation of the Constitution. According to the Constitution of the Czech Republic, and I quoted it here when discussing the law on the register of contracts, all types of ownership are placed on an equal footing and the protection of all types of ownership must be the same. But we have adopted a law here in which a private solar baron, who has been collecting hundreds of billions from the state budget, has had more rights than it has since 2006, and 2007 than it has, forgive me, a city heat store. Since it doesn't publish anything, it doesn't have to do anything, it just collects net solar energy charges from the state budget, but the city hothouse will have to publish all the contracts because it's urban. Where is the principle of equality of ownership? I'm talking about the heat supply on purpose. Now imagine the protection of public services in the contract. Zero. Zero. We don't protect public services, but if a private entity does it, of course we'll pay for it. Among other things, we don't have a very bad experience of how foreign investors deal with our water resources? With water supplies in individual cities? Does the price of water seem good to you? Acceptable to all citizens? Nota bene when we're at the three seas and all the water is draining away from us and we have to protect ourselves so that at least one stays with us at a time when drought threatens us. Among other things, we discussed this here last week. It's not a public service - water supply, electricity supply, etc.? And if we privatize these services again primarily and do not protect them, forgive me, why are we sitting here? What are we gonna decide? About if we're gonna have a better fight with each other? How long do you think these people are gonna suffer? What's the point? [[9.50 hours]] And the same thing in the service business chapter. That's the humiliation of public services at all. When I compare public services in the Czech Republic and almost neighboring Switzerland, where, of course, cantons, cities, but also the Swiss state retains influence on how it will offer these services, from transport to energy, through cleaning, but also health care. When we had a non-profit medical facility law here, the source or example of the law was the Swiss model, when canton really had great rights as a founder to end up in the care of patients. But we prefer stock cards and eseros to make more profit than to talk about the fact that the specific thing that sets up the state as a service, as a care, i.e. the health of the people, worked, the system, for why it was founded, i.e. for health care. A beautiful chapter is the restriction of government regulation. I'd have to really... That's ridiculous. That's what the corporations are saying: "Try to limit us, try to regulate us, but we will give you in the arbitration! And that government is a bunch of clowns to serve? And now it doesn't matter if it's left-wing, right-wing, or poppy, whether it's in the kingdom or in the Republican constitution. I mean, that's what the contract says we can't regulate them. When it starts to fill up, what are you gonna do? You guys sitting on government benches in the next term? You're gonna watch some group that has a place in Montreal or Ottawa or somewhere else, he's gonna say, "Oh, no, darlings, you can't regulate this. That's part of the contract you made, and you better hand it over to us. So, you know, it really bothers me. They call it more cooperation, less regulation. What cooperation will be if you have no authority to regulate it, and they say "we want to cooperate, but according to our rules"? Okay, maybe you don't mind. I do. I already talked about patents and copyright. That's what happened here before. We have surrendered our patent rights to Europe. But, well, the citizens of the Czech Republic have decided freely in the referendum that we will enter the European Union, the truth, under conditions other than the Treaty of Lisbon, and the primary patent is not for us, even the protection, until you write it in English or in those languages which are recognised for patent law, so it is for us, the patent procedure, to secondary, not primary. The threat to the agricultural market and the quality of food, which I started because it upset me the most about the contract. And I was also talking about climate protection, so I will not repeat myself. I just don't agree with it. I don't agree with that for principle reasons. I don't want to read those here, excuse me, to be exact, 80 pages of the text that the Ecumenical Academy created. And on purpose, I took a foreign document, not my own, to confirm that I am not mistaken when I read the treaty, that it is not some ideological focus of mine, that it is indeed, I would say, a civil attitude to the fact that we must protect ourselves against the international treaties that we receive as citizens of the Czech Republic, as the people of some countries of sovereignty. Sovereignty in making it our own way. And I often quote article I.1 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, which came out with us as the international treaty No.120/1976 Coll., that every state, every nation has the right to its own political regime and to use its natural resources. But we want to get rid of it, our right, which is given by the highest international treaty between all the treaties. This is the transfer of the UN Charter to valid international law. Other colleagues from our parliamentary club will talk about workers' rights and I will not take their word for it. Of course, there are dangers to Canada if Brusel were to push back on some things and negotiate the decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union. But he's not inclined. It is not in favour of countries like the Czech Republic. And I must say that the ratification process itself, in my opinion, is quite affected, forgive me, by the pressure of those for whom it is advantageous. It is therefore affected by the non-free decision-making of those elected either to the European Parliament or to the national parliaments of individual European states. I don't know if I convinced you. I don't know if my arguments were worth considering. But I have verified that my opinion, which was based on my conviction, is not unique, that it is neither ideological nor politically predicated. It is the opinion of a large group of people without distinction of political orientation, without distinction of belief that this treaty is not for Europe and is not advantageous for the Czech Republic. I can't and I won't vote for her.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u4	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Now let me read the apologies. The President of the ANO club, Jaroslav Faltýnek, apologizes between 9 and 15 o'clock for working reasons, and Mr Karel Rais apologizes from today's meeting between 14.00 and 17.00 for working reasons. Mrs Markéta Wernerová votes with replacement card number 83. The Minister of Culture, Daniel Herman, has signed up with priority rights, to whom I hereby give the floor. I'm sorry, I forgot, Mr. Finance Minister's point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u5	Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief. It makes no sense here to repeat the logical reasons why this contract is advantageous for Czech companies, Czech entrepreneurs and the Czech Republic. I have already done that, in the House there are most of those who believe in it, and a minority that not only doesn't question these arguments, but doesn't even listen. I'm not going to spread the circles either, I'm just going to talk about the treaty, not the wide range of questions that my previous speaker has opened here. I would just like to say that I am very pleased that the Chamber of Deputies has maintained the status of immunity. This is because the serious alarm reports contained in my previous speaker's speech could certainly be of interest to some law enforcement authorities at this time, because they were really so serious that the Czech Republic is in a catastrophic state, and this report should probably not be disseminated among citizens. So I'm glad there's an Immunity Institute that allows us to do such speeches here in some way and also listen to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u7	I thank the Minister of Finance, Ivan Pilný, for keeping time. Now, Mr Ivan Gabal's factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u8	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to confide in one completely paradoxical feeling. In parallel with my previous speaker, in Strasbourg, the European Parliament, Jean-Claude Juncker, talks about the state of the European Union. And since I'm listening to both, I have to say, I haven't had a better feeling of schizophrenia in a while. While we are being haunted by global capitalism, the free market, our smallness, how we cannot stand, how we cannot protect ourselves, Jean-Claude Juncker talks about the future of Europe, its global responsibility, Europe's rights from food to defence. And that we must all be able to participate equally in global dynamics and in making Europe a safe legal continent. One talks about the past and haunts citizens, and the other offers us a vision for the future and the opportunity to participate in a major global project. I think that's the basic decision we're about to make in the coming days and weeks. We will decide whether to allow ourselves to be haunted by the past, freedom and the free market, or to use it to work in a legal environment, in equal ways, all of us, as the Brit, like the Belgičan, like the Němec, like the Slovák. We'll have to choose that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u9	That was Mr. Ivan Gabal. Now a factual remark by Jaroslav Foldyna. Pavel Kováčik prepares for a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u10	Thank you for the floor. I mean, I wasn't enough to be amazed. If Europe has a global responsibility when it resigns from its global role, when its global impotence results in a migration crisis, when Europe has failed to explain to its partners in the global world that interfering in Arab countries, the way in which it interferes and resolves the crisis, which at this point is a complete failure, I do not understand at all. Jean-Claude Juncker, who advocated tax havens, went to global capital to represent my Europe? I don't understand. I don't understand! Ladies and gentlemen, there is no schizophrenia just in this, here it is much more complicated and much worse. And either we take care of our citizens and promote a responsible policy in a united Europe, or we listen to Jean-Claudey Juncker and the like.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u11	Thank you, Mr Foldyn. Now, Mr Kováčik's factual remark, then the priority right of Minister Herman. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u12	Thank you for the floor. I wish everyone a nice, good one, let us trust the last day of this parliamentary term, the last day of the Chamber of Deputies' session. You know, I feel like the schizophrenia that we're talking about is leaking more layers. On the one hand, we are talking about global responsibility, how we are in a free and equal economic and political world, and on the other hand, after the experience we have - and we have said carefully before joining the European Union, the conditions are not so well negotiated that we can say with a clear conscience that we are entering an equal and equal environment. For example, we have been dealing with this in recent weeks, and not just us, but other countries that joined the European Union a little later than the basic, say, fifteen, problem of different food quality. So it is at least unfair in itself to the citizens of the Czech Republic that the same packaging of the same kind of food has a different composition in Germany, another composition in the Czech Republic or Poland, where butter is put somewhere, palm oil is enough. And so on and so forth. So I want to talk about the fact that our distrust of such things, similar to the pacts, is justified by such agreements. These examples of unequal position, sometimes until we have the impression that we have brought only those - and perhaps this has been demanded of us - those ten million consumer necks and consumer pockets into this global or at least pan-European market. That is also what we are talking about in connection with these relations with Canada. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u13	Thank you to President Kováčik. My colleague Herman will wait a little longer. Mr Chalupa, a Member of the Chalupa, made a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u14	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I agree with the two previous speakers that have been said here, absolutely unambiguously. And all the time I've been here, and now I'm in a position of politics, I hear that politics is about compromises and exchanges. So what I'm asking is: If the Czech Government is proposing a comprehensive economic and trade agreement between Canada and the European Union, then why didn't it negotiate our better position on the other hand as regards the nonsense quotas, did it not negotiate a better position with regard to the disarmament directive and other nonsense coming from Brussels? If it's an exchange, then yes, we'll trade, we'll support some things that we're not completely conformal with for something else. But I'm just sick of Germany - I don't have a problem with Germany being the economic leader of the Union, but I definitely have a big problem with Germany becoming a political leader. And after experience in history, this is definitely a huge problem for me, and I'm definitely not conformed to the German threat to punish us for not being anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u15	I thank Mr Chalupa for his time on the point of fact. Now with priority rights, Minister Daniel Herman. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, so on September 13, 2017, we listened to the classic anti-Western propaganda of the Communist Party Chair, which could be a perfect fulfillment of the team's political training some 35 years ago. I would call it chucpe literally when the Communist Party chairman here talks about the sovereignty of the Czech Republic. The chairman of the party responsible for the invitation letter of August 21, 1968, when the occupying forces of the Warsaw Pact attacked Czechoslovakia and destroyed our sovereignty. The leader of the party that turned our country into a colony of the Soviet Union. I don't have a better name than the word chuffe. It is so unheard of that this must finally be put to an end! There was talk of a reduction in food quality. Yes, just the time of communism, or so-called. real socialism has caused us to still be seen as part of Eastern Europe, and to this day we have to address the problems that Western Europe, which we have always belonged to, does not have. The interest of the citizens of the Czech Republic, the fundamental interest is to live in a free Western and democratic society, not in some oriental despocy wrapped up in Marxist slogans, as was the case here at the time of the Communist Party's government. And protect a citizen of the Czech Republic? The Communist Party imagined it by sending Soviet tanks and barbed wire to the border where the shooting took place strangled our country. That's not the kind of protection we imagine. And the Prime Minister said he wasn't liberal. No, it really isn't. He's a communist, and that's all there is to it. And shield yourself here with Switzerland? Let me finally say a little anecdote. Do you know why communism could never be built in countries like Switzerland, Liechtenstein, Andorra or Monaco? Because such a big mess didn't fit into such a small country! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u17	That was Minister Daniel Herman. He made three more factual points. First, Prime Minister Kováčik. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madames and gentlemen, the history of the Communist movement is quite long and also quite varied. Like all the history of all movements, political directions, and so on, they have a weaker place in their course, but they also have strong seats. The Minister emphasized the weak spots. The history of Christianity is also very long. The Catholic Church is also very long. Even a pile longer than the history of the Communist movement. And the history of the Czech Republic, namely Czechoslovakia, also has its weaknesses and strengths. [[10.10 hours]] I'm just going to say that we are not the ones who would like to rank the Czech Republic, even if it is only a kind of reinforced bonmot, among the other countries of the Federal Republic of Germany. We're not the ones who are still teasing the snake barefoot with the judge's contacts. We are not the ones who voted someone out - and now I specifically mean the People's Party - of cooperation in the National Front at the time, which was also mentioned here by the Minister. We are those who are trying to serve the people of this Republic, the Czech Republic, in 2017 and we are trying to explain to all of you, including the people, that not everything is black, only black, and not everything is white, only white. That there are shades that are worthy of attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u19	I thank Mr Pavel Kováčik. And now other factual points. First Mr Chalupa, then Mr Mackovík, then Mr Ondráček. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u20	One more time on tonight's last day. This was discussed about the position of the Czech Republic in the framework of the global policy of the European Union. Guys, this is where I heard this dissenting moaning. 27 years after the Velvet Revolution, our position is what it is, i.e. Nobody's taking us seriously. And that is not the issue of this current Chamber of Deputies. That's the thing about 27 or 25 years ago. So if anyone's criticizing something here, they should sweep their own doorstep. 1968, the entry of allied troops to the Warsaw Treaty in the territory of the Czech Republic. That was the second Munich! Because if the západ wanted to help, the Rus would never get in here! So they left us for the Rusák again! So I'm not gonna talk about that either. And speaking of material solutions to problems, I'm much less interested in who's saying it, but I'm interested in what he's saying! And I said that before the 2013 election, and I'm gonna say it again! Because people here are supposed to be dealing with things, not politics!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u21	Thank you, Mr Chalupa. Now, Mr Mackovík, with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues, I will be brief. I just want to say that this is a democratic parliament, the KSČM is a democratically elected political party in the Czech Republic. And to Minister Herman. This really is not a convention of the Sudeten German Landsmanshaft, where everyone would applaud and sing for you. All you've done is prove you're defending other people's interests here. Unfortunately, that's the way it is. Perhaps some voters should realize that your journey is really going nowhere.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u23	I thank Mr Mackovík. Before I give the floor to Mr Ondráček, Mr Soukup is also registered. I'm asking if Mrs Pěnčíková is registered to a factual remark. Also. A colleague of Soukupa. Now, before I give the floor to Mr Ondráček, I will read the apology received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Mr Benešík apologizes within 13 hours for working reasons and Mrs Nina Nováková for personal reasons for today's meeting day. Now, Mr Zdeněk Ondráček, Mr Soukup, will be prepared. Ambassador, the order is as I said. [[A Member of the Soukup who is at the speaker's desk.]] First, Mr. Ondráček. How you're logged in electronically. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u24	Thank you, Mr President. I also thank my colleague for keeping order. I am always very pleased when the Minister of Culture comes out here because it is clear exactly how well he is ideologically tuned. And I'd like to ask the Minister if he could still tell the story of that fairy tale, as he looked at the main machine guns at the state borders. It was an episode that I enjoyed so much. I think it would be nice for my colleagues, too. Thank you, Minister, if you would.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u25	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Soukup. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, it turned out exactly as we all expected when we met here this morning and saw on the board what would be discussed. I'm just wondering-- it came out of grémia, or who actually decided to place this point? It's perfectly clear to all that the Communists won't let it go. And as for the arguments that fell. Let's cut the politics. I didn't hear any rational arguments from the Minister, whether he's mad at me or not. I heard a few from the other side. I beg you to come back, if we must discuss this point, to the substance, i.e. whether or not the contract is advantageous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u27	I thank Mr Soukup. Now, with the factual remark of Mrs Marie Pěnčíková. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u28	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I really do have the last of the respect I still have for Minister Herman to say that he did not surprise me again, because his statement, I cannot say only recently, but whenever he is running out of arguments, he brings up anti-communist propaganda. I thank him for that, because I hope that as many people as possible are watching it and that he hears it because he's definitely doing us a huge commercial because we're probably the only ones here right now, except for a couple of colleagues who still work for the people of this country. You're screwing with me. I don't know where.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u29	Thank you. We have therefore exhausted the factual points and now Mrs Hana Aulická with a proper application. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I don't think I'm gonna follow up on the previous discussion, but I'm gonna allow myself to follow up on your performance because I think it's really about the arguments. And perhaps it is a good thing that many of you, when you listen to our speeches here, will think about whether this Comprehensive Economic Trade Agreement between Canada and the European Union is really advantageous for our Republic. I think, and I can probably speak for the KSČM in general, that we don't think so. And it is very sad that the other parties today in the Chamber of Deputies usually say that they will support this agreement. Unfortunately, this was not clearly seen even in the European Parliament's discussions, where there were great fights. Again, I want to say that the representatives of the ČSSD in the European Parliament voted against this agreement, and I think that these arguments are very serious precisely so that this agreement is not accepted. I have taken the liberty of pulling out perhaps the area that is currently being discussed, and this is the quality of agriculture and the quality of our food. And I think that this was also one of the last such current topics of our government, especially the Prime Minister, and perhaps the Minister of Agriculture, who even had tests and comparisons done, and it was found that food for our republic is not really adequate quality abroad, and unfortunately, if it is adopted, this agreement brings further serious reductions in the quality of these foods. And it may also be strange that it is the coalition that is fighting this phenomenon that suddenly wants to approve this agreement. Let me really read you some serious arguments: Small farms and other alternatives to industrial agriculture will soon have to face the consequences of a new era of trade policy. The European Union is eager to open up its domestic market to many sensitive agricultural products, such as milk and meat, which have so far been largely protected from imports. Allowing access to the market for products from abroad by new bilateral free trade agreements would expose small agricultural producers, which, therefore, the current government coalition wants to protect, and sustainable agricultural practices to generally strong pressure in the European Union and elsewhere. The threat to new small farmers is evident in the final text of CETA. Especially in the provisions on market access and geographical indication. In Germany and throughout the European Union, the market for meat and milk products is characterised by excessively low production prices. The European Union's agricultural policy urges excess production, which brings down prices for primary producers allegedly in order to make European farmers competitive on the global market. The low production prices of the European Union industry are mainly benefiting from industrial meat producers. If contracts such as CETA come into force, these large meat processors will be able to increase exports and thus increase their profits. So I'm saying again, who's gonna oppress who here? [[10.20 hours]] At present, European domestic meat markets are protected by tariff quotas - which we know for sure you are calling to disappear - including quotas for imports from Canada to balance a significant price difference. For several years, Canadian pork was sold at a price up to 60 per cent lower than European pork. In 2014, despite the price decline in the European pigmeat market, the Canadian price was still 25 percent lower. This is partly because Canadian pork producers have prices between 15 and 35 percent lower than their European counterparts. If CETA allowed the opening of these markets, Canadian producers could offer their products at much lower prices than comparable producers in the European Union under the current conditions. And now maybe let me do a little analysis. CETA represents the total abolition of quotas for almost all goods during a transitional period beginning on the date of entry into force of the Agreement. However, both parties have negotiated specific provisions for certain agricultural products in the form of quotas for duty-free imports of particularly sensitive products, including beef and pigmeat, which is sensitive to the European Union. If CETA enters into force, EU quotas for imports of Canadian pigmeat and beef shall be increased 12 to 14 times compared to the current situation. If imports actually increase, it will depend on the ability of the Canadian export industry to fill the volume of new quotas without the use of hormones or ractopamine, a controversial substance added to feed to accelerate the fattening process. Production standards are higher in the European Union than in Canada, and in many cases they are still influenced by small farmers. In Europe, the use of growth hormones or antibiotics increasing yields is prohibited. Moreover, in European regulations and standards for the handling of cattle, for example, space requirements, grate floors, approval procedures differ from Canadian ones. The Canadian slaughterhouse has not yet been able to fill the volume of duty-free European Union quotas for pigmeat and beef, but, given that increased quotas would attract Canadian producers and processors for the production of meat without hormones for export, might CETA encourage them to restructure their production and slaughtering (?) practice. If this were to happen, the subsequent increases in imports could push significantly to lower European prices in meat. The agreement would allow Canadian imports to account for around 0,4 per cent of European pig meat consumption and 0,6 per cent of beef consumption. There is already an excess of meat and milk production in Europe, which causes winding-up prices for producers. And I think many of you recently shared 70 crowns of butter on their Facebook profile. Excellent. We're all looking forward to Christmas. In order to continue the existence of local agriculture, the meat industry must give priority to reducing production volume and concentrate on consumer requirements for quality and socially responsible products. CETA will potentially have a destabilizing effect on the European meat market. Moreover, the proposed increase in milk quotas would cause more exports of European cheeses to Canada, which would create a comparable pressure on the Canadian market. At present, Canada is using the supply management system for the dairy industry. This guarantees farmers fair and stable incomes by ensuring that the supply of dairy products corresponds to domestic demand. Producers shall be allocated production quotas and shall be fined for each litre of milk that exceeds. In addition, imports of milk products are restricted by tariff quotas. The price of milk is thus linked to the domestic production costs in Canada and brings a fair reward to producers. Thanks to this system, Canadian milk farmers receive about 50 cents per kilogram. However, in Europe in June 2016, the price of milk fell to 25,81 cent per kilogram. This recent decline was due to the abolition of milk quotas in the European Union in March 2015. The European Union's efforts to steer its agricultural policy towards exports, thereby laying the basis for trade agreements such as CETA, have caused the price of milk paid to European producers to fall. The low price of milk in the European Union will certainly affect the price in Canada. Intending to support income for farmers, the European Union cheese industry would easily fill in the new tariff quotas introduced by the CETA agreement. It should be noted that the European Union's agricultural policy cannot be called sustainable if, by its exports to Canada, it interferes with socially oriented market regulations aimed at supporting farmers. And now maybe I can get to the quality. CETA will not only liberalize agricultural markets but also threaten to weaken food safety standards, such as surface treatment of meat with chemical and organic compounds can expand. In Europe, carcases generally remain untreated except where they are washed with water. In Canada, however, it is common to clean chemicals, such as chlorine. The European Union has already released its standards for treating beef with lactic acid. Maybe as a preliminary gift to both Canadian and American trade negotiators. Together with this, the European Union has been discussing the authorisation of the surface treatment of poultrymeat with acetic acid for several months. CETA can consolidate these changes and support further deregulation. The weakening of animal slaughter standards will not only bring profits to the Canadian poultry and meat processing industry, but also to their European counterparts by allowing them to defeat them (?) procedures to be more industrialized. The European Union has shown an interest in exchanging quality meat processing and quality assurance on chemistry-based treatment. From an agricultural point of view, this trend is very problematic. Instead of such deregulation, the European Union should favour small slaughterhouses and promote ethical, safe and sustainable treatment practices. And now we are also coming to the decline of regional quality, which unfortunately I cannot say is with the interests of the Czech Republic, since we also have a product within the regions. Geographical indications are the names of specific regions and places which determine the origin of certain protected foods. Agricultural indications allow small farmers in certain areas to demand higher prices for well-known, high-quality food and value-added agricultural support contributing to regional economic development. Examples of important geographical indications in Germany are listed - Bavarian pretzels, cockroach noodles, frankfurtian green sauce, etc. In 2015, 1 308 foods, 2 883 wines and 332 spirits were protected in Europe. CETA would only protect 173 products by means of a geographical indication. There is no such system for Canadian products, and Canadian food imitation producers would like to completely abolish the geographical indication. This is just a few arguments in the area of agriculture and food quality. And maybe I'd just point out that I only pierced the one area. But I think, and maybe I can also say, unfortunately, that many of you sitting here today haven't seen the contract at all. We understand that you have your representatives in your clubs, but unfortunately, as you can hear, it is an agreement that really targets many areas and resorts. And if you read at least those areas where you're in or where you're experts, you'd come up with different opinions. [[10.30 hours]] But let me read or sum up a few arguments from our citizens, who, when they get to the information about this agreement, because, of course, our media does not transfer information and fundamental arguments to our citizens, or transmit it only unilaterally and purposefully, so many of us, or many citizens, do not even know what can affect this agreement. Why do CETA definitely refuse? According to our findings, the government has hired an advisory agency that evaluated the admission of CETA, but this is, according to our information provided by the Ministry of Industry and Trade, processed to convince the government to adopt CETA. It is not impartial, as was the case with information on EU soil. We found out from our many years of experience in fighting groups such as the fracturing lobby from the USA, Australia and Canada, which we defeated after four years of fighting, when we saved water in the Czech Republic for 1.5 million inhabitants, which was threatened by the plan to fracturing slate, that these agreements are dangerous not only in terms of promoting lower environmental and other standards than the EU or the Czech Republic, but also in terms of the economy. Economic lure of the groups is not worth the potential enormous damage that can cause plundering technological processes, soft standards, or even arbitration. And I can name Quebec or NAFTA. One of the Trojan horses and the CETA agreement is the fracking and export of dirty natural gas from fracturing, the production of which is directly contrary to the Paris agreements and promotes massive global warming - perhaps it would be good for the Minister of the Environment to say something about it - as well as the arbitrage associated with the failure to grant mining rights after a geological survey by a foreign company. And one example for all of them, how does the similar NAFTA agreement work, when Canada paid for it by US influence, the corporations. I think you've all got it in your e-mail boxes. CETA and exploration and extraction of raw materials. In particular, it concerns unconventional sources of oil and gas, in particular fossil fuels. Until the law prohibits hydraulic fracturing of shale gases, fracturing, in the fifth version of the law, but we also have a finished and agreed by Mr Komárek, and the above gap is eliminated, the state is threatened not only with enormous environmental damage, especially in the waters, but also for the state budget - tens of billions of arbitrations, which is roughly only a lower estimate, because it threatens that the late adoption of national legislation contrary to the agreement will automatically be used by companies for arbitration, unless it is directly the objective, as shown by our direct experience in the Czech Republic in the shale gas case. We have verified our information repeatedly not only from CETA and TTIP, EU skeptical MEPs, but also from our sources in the US and Canada. The fracturing lobby is also extended to the US, Canada, Great Britain, Australia, US Congress etc. and it's all verifiable from public sources. And then I have another e-mail that I'm sure you've all received, and let me tell you, too, because I really think most of you haven't read it. Unfortunately, CETA contains many commitments that go directly against the requirements of this vital segment of the economy. CETA is a convention that takes into account the interests of multinational companies in particular, for small and medium-sized European enterprises and for many public interests it poses a great risk. Investor protection by a judicial system for investors is a typical example of the biggest problem of CETA. It is available only for the strongest investors. Domestic enterprises do not have this option in comparable cases, nor do they have it as citizens, for example in cases where they have been damaged by the conduct of a foreign investor, such as the Volkswagen case - extensive environmental or health damage. It is not clear why a special judicial regime should be introduced between advanced legal systems. We are not aware of a single case of unfair action by European courts against Canadian courts, respectively. foreign investors. The fundamental problem is crippling the possibility of national parliaments to adopt laws effectively. Any legislation can be challenged as a barrier to trade, investment or obstruction. Existing bilateral agreements with arbitration clauses are already seen as a problem. It is not clear why controversial arbitration in CETA should be institutionalised in the form of an exclusive system for a narrow minority of economic actors. We remind you that the Commission's Additional Declaration on CETA - preserving the right to regulation - does not have legal force vis-à-vis the text of CETA enshrined in investor rights. For both us and our citizens, or some of our citizens are asking us not to accept this agreement and make a big mistake with the citizens of our Republic. I believe that you have thought about this in our arguments, and even those who have not known anything about this agreement so far have thought about the need to study this Treaty more thoroughly, to rethink it not only in one or two committees - when we proposed that we should put it on more committees, unfortunately, it was not a force - and really not to do the sheep of Canada and some EU countries and at least to return it to the petitioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u31	Good morning. Thank you, Mrs Aulická. With a factual remark, President Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u32	Thank you. I would like to thank the previous speaker for finally explaining to us what matters to the KSČM club. I note that I also see a great chance in this Treaty for the Czech economy, but the analysis concerning the prices of beef and pigmeat is correct in my opinion and we finally know what will bother you. You would simply mind if pork and beef were cheaper here, because, of course, every such agreement is particularly beneficial to competition and consumers. So we know that communists want to have the most expensive pork and beef on the Czech market, and therefore do not want an agreement with Canada. I think that was quite clearly explained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u33	Thank you. With a factual remark, President Vojtěch Filip, Mrs Pěnčíková, followed by a factual remark. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u34	Thank you, Mr President. I won't be long. I wanted to respond initially to Minister Herman, but it doesn't make sense because he really defends interests other than us, the interests of the citizens of the Czech Republic. There's only so much for Prime Minister Kalousek. No, we just know that if an investor destroys a domestic manufacturer, then he'll raise the prices. Well, that's pretty common knowledge here. First the beef and pork production was destroyed, now we're gonna punch it in Lety, and it's gonna be great if we take out more pork producers, and then it's gonna get here at the high prices of goods from abroad. Why are you talking so much nonsense, it's gonna get cheaper? It doesn't bother us that it will be cheaper, but we care about the citizens of the Czech Republic having a job here. It's just, when I was talking about the investments, I forgot one important number, and I let myself quote it. In a pan-European survey in 2014, 97 per cent of the participants opposed the investment provisions in the CETA contract. Since the publication of the results of this public consultation with European representatives, it has been as if they have not heard a sharp political and professional debate and the ongoing protests of millions of citizens. Such great protection of investments, investors in the European Union have not yet been and no protection of public property, but there has also been no protection of those institutions of the European Union. This treaty is truly demoting to all elected democratic institutions!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u35	Thank you. Mrs Pěnčíková, with a point of fact. After that, Mr Rom Kostřica, with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u36	One more time, ladies and gentlemen. According to Mr Kalousek's previous speaker, I understood that the only thing that impressed him was the price of beef, or until now, at all, to think about the continuum of the bovine animals and fellow Members, in any case, for the less than two minutes that he spoke here, I understood that he had not actually taken anything out of those speeches. So I think that maybe our colleagues should repeat that to us, because there were a lot more arguments and it was definitely not just about the prices of pork and beef. And since we have here as the translator of the Minister, I expect and I think that you are responsible not only to us MEPs but, above all to the public, to the ten million inhabitants of the Czech Republic to answer the questions that have been raised here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u37	Thank you. Mr Rom Kostřica, then Mr Gabal, then Mr Kalousek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u38	Good day to you. When I look back at the several months' history of the problems of approving this treaty, I would like to express my conviction and my request. I would be delighted to be one hand again with shame and to be the last state in the European Union to sign this treaty, so that they also know in the world and in Canada, in particular, that it has, in my view, only been completely reprehensible and, in my view, completely inappropriate efforts to obstruct the Communist Members of this Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u39	Mr Gabal and his point of order, after which President Kalousek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u40	Thank you. A fellow speaker said part of what I wanted to say. The 26 or 27 governments and parliaments, are they completely ignorant? We're talking about a trade agreement inside the elite club of the richest countries in the world. I understand that this is not a club where the Communist Party would feel at home, but I think it's a club where the middle life span of our citizens has expanded by ten years, where we move on a very decent level and where no one has to go to Letna on May 1 to see bananas. That means, do we feel that 27 or 26 parliaments have not appreciated the trade impact on their economies? Or do we feel like the Communists here are trying to push us out of that elite club again, where we've been after so many decades and so many generations of wasted lives?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u41	Thank you. Mr Kalousek, then Mr Plzák, then Mr Kováčik, Mr Luzar, Mr Dolejš. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u42	Thank you for the floor. Good through the President, Madame. Of course, I wasn't just talking about the prices of pork and beef. I only used this as an example of how - I'm sorry - your arguments are dangerous and your dislike to expand the common market. You know, those who want to build totalitarianism and fear because totalitarians are always afraid, so they build walls and bend the ground wires. Democratic forces that are confident and are not afraid are building bridges. You used to run around the Czechoslovak Republic with wires, introduce customs, and at that standard of living it was known in comparison with the free world. We are trying to build bridges and expand the free market and we know that it will be signed positively at the living level of the citizens of the Czech Republic exactly as when your wires were cut back then. That's what I was talking about, except when I was talking about the meat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u43	Thank you. Mr Plzák and his factual point, after which Mr Kováčik. I'm sorry, Mr Grospič, for what it's worth. So please, Mr. Chairman Kováčik and his point of order. Mr President, please make your point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u44	He told Mr. Volný not to hold up. Well, you know, folks, we're trying to make a factual argument here about why we don't like the whole thing. Maybe that's why we're trying so hard to convince you that we feel responsible in front of the citizens, and that it wasn't for the rest of them that they let themselves be broken, that they let pressure on the treaty, the consent, convince themselves. It's not all that pure black or pure white. And only to my colleague Gabala and others - we, in fact, do not bring politics and politics into this, we do not hold back here with unnecessary political arguments, we try on the factual level. On the issue of banana, Mr Gabal, through Mr President, today citizens are lining up for butter.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u45	Thank you. Mr Leo Luzar factual point, followed by Mr Dolejš, Mrs Pěnčíková, Mrs Semelová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, by your means to my colleague Gabala. Yes, 27s aren't stupid people. All yesterday's performance, I tried to argue here what they negotiated in exceptions and what we didn't. And I think that's a pretty big problem from our point of view. I drew attention to specific problems that could cause this. And as for the bond bananas, yes, you're right. But we're gonna have Brazilian bananas here, but we're gonna miss Czech meat, and that's a bigger problem, I think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u47	Thank you. Mr Dolejš and his factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u48	Same address as colleagues, but a little bit different. I don't want to get into ideological fights, but if you're talking about demographics, I'm sure you know that life expectancy is related to mortality. And if today's seniors are dying a lot at the age of 80 and even older, it's certainly not just a matter of the last few years. In short, their youth and productive phase of life took place under certain conditions, and you simply can't prove clearly that they lived longer because you measured a good pension for them, but because they lived their whole lives in relatively stable, calm and healthy conditions, because health care arrived at them. Second little, even shorter note. We don't fight free trade, free trade. We are merely struggling to expand it asymmetrically and to ensure that the standards that are also intended to touch us in that space are firm and functional and not devastating. That's all it is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u49	Thank you. Mrs Pěnčíková, Mrs Semelová after her. Both factual points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u50	Let's do it again. Repetition of the mother of wisdom. I think all of you, sitting here, know well that the Communist club is always willing to support proposals across the political spectrum if we find them good. Here we have made a number of comments, a number of questions, and all we have learned is that we are building. So if anyone has the courage to finally answer our questions, we can end this and vote. If you bring up only our 40 years of communism and anti-communist propaganda, don't be surprised that now I ask my colleague Aulická and colleague Luzar to tell you the arguments again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u51	Thank you, Mrs Pěnčíková. That's great news. Mrs Semelová and her factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u52	Good morning, esteemed colleagues. I like that every time the arguments run out, he either starts punching himself in the table with the Christian love of Minister Herman's own, or he starts bragging bananas, Mr Gabal, through Mr President. You guys are talking about people coming to watch bananas on Letna. You know, there are now many pensioners and other people who have nothing left to do but look at them as well, even in the shops, because they just don't have the money for them after they pay the rising prices of housing, food, butter and other living costs. If you take it that more than two thirds of it doesn't take an average salary, that millions of people here are below the minimum of living, then it's probably a little different. But other than that, I'm happy with my colleagues from our club that you're getting off here, as I was saying, Minister Herman, or you and the others from the right, because at least people will take a picture of what they're defending. Who defends sudetolandsmanshaft, who defends churches that receive huge assets, who defend transnational monopolies. Or they'll realize that we defend the interests of ordinary people for the KSČM club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u53	Thank you. Mr Šarapatka and his point of order. After him, Vice-President Filip. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u54	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say for myself that I am in favour of this agreement despite all the minor shortcomings it has. But in the account of my previous speakers, I would like to say, what you're saying here is no argument. It's an ordinary election agitation. Please keep it in the square. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u55	Thank you. President Filip. [[This is Mrs Pěnčíková.]] The Member will certainly prefer the President. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u56	Thank you, Mr President. I was wondering if any of my previous speakers would say that. I'm responding to my colleague Kalousek's performance. Okay. So you think we're against the free market. And how was pching Ťin, the president of the People's Republic of China, the only person protecting the free market at the last G20? What kind of nonsense are you talking to me about? Are you serious, the argument? It's like the joke - what's the difference between China and ODS? The difference is that China's Communist Party, unlike the ODS, supports business. You know, it's clear here that we're in a different situation. After all, the global economy is in a completely different situation than it was 10, 20, 30 years ago. Please, if anyone wants to live in the past as Daniel Herman, live there. I don't care. I certainly signed an invitation letter when I was 13, didn't I? That was great. At least he finally found the culprit. After all, he was the director of the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes for a long time. It's just ridiculous! That's ridiculous, really! So if you want a free market, then move to China, do it, and it'll be clear. We are trying to have clear laws here that protect Czech national interest, both in Canada and in China. And there's gonna be a big problem with, for example, steel production and all that. Like who stood up to those Chinese vans in Europe? Well, it wasn't your clubs. It was the Club of the European United Left.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u57	Thank you. Mrs Pěnčíková, Mr Plzák, President Stanjura. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u58	Mr Šarapatek, by your means, Mr President. You're damn right I'm gonna talk about it in those squares. Because these people need to know. And I might even name it! But unfortunately, those people in that square won't vote on the deal. That's what we're supposed to be voting on here in a minute, so that's why we're having this discussion here on this soil. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u59	Mr Plzák and his factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u60	Good morning. Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, I'm sorry that this is such an ideological shootout, because this contract is really about business, and there's another way to do this deal. I'm sorry that a lot of us - and I'm including myself - don't know much about this contract. But even if you read the analysis, what's lurking out of it, it's just that the contract gives foreign investors such rights that they can basically bind the legislative and enforcement process. And we would like the ministers of agriculture and the environment to be here - if this cannot affect environmental legislation in any way. I really don't have any answers to those questions here. I'll get out later. I am really worried about this treaty not being another Treaty of Lisbon and that sort of thing. I'll save it for my show. And I am very sorry that the Minister of the Environment and the Minister of Agriculture are not here, because I would know what to ask them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u61	Thank you. Mr. Chairman Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u62	Good morning. Try asking inside your party where the Minister of the Environment is. I think he's still a member of the YES movement. But that's not why I applied. First of all, we're gonna support the contract. We supported it in the European Parliament. We think it's right because we always support the free market. As far as blocking imports of unfair competition from cheap Chinese steel was concerned, it was I who proposed the inclusion of a point at the meeting of our Chamber of Deputies, and it was the government Members who did not allow that point to be discussed. And the government simply avoids it and is unable to protect jobs in North Moravia. And the problem is much bigger than the problem of OKD - which I don't want to downplay - if we take the jobs that are in the steel industry and the companies that are tied up. But I volunteered to respond to Vice-President Filip's speech. I think we should elaborate on his idea. If you want to do business freely, do business in China. And I would add - I'm sure the Communists will commend me for that, because that's exactly what their logic is - and if you want to live in a free country, live in North Korea. It's exactly the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u63	Chairman Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u64	Thank you for the floor. Mr. Chairman Kováčik here said bitterly that while there were no bananas behind them, there is a butter line again today. There's nothing left but an experiment. I ran out, and in the first bow - on my soul without waiting, I was the first one - I bought butter without a problem. [[They hold a cube of butter in each hand.]] Mr President, through Mr President, when the comrades complain once again that they have stood in line, let them accept the gift from Kalousek - that will certainly be particularly good for them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u65	And the gifted President has now made a point of fact. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u66	Thank you very much. Liptov maslo - is not Czech. And, my colleague, through the President, you have deleted or ripped off the prize here. How much was it? And I don't see milk fat in here either. So it does not meet the requirements that the Czech market, the Czech consumer, Czech standards, the Czech Ministry of Agriculture, the Czech Agricultural and Food Inspection and the Czech State Veterinary Administration apply for the benefit of the Czech consumer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u67	Mr Kalousek, Mr Štětina after him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u68	Yes, they had Slovak butter in the first quail, as well as beyond the borders of the Czech Republic in Slovakia, Czech butter from Madeta is sold. That is the charm of the common market for the benefit of consumers, Mr President. And nothing but the common market, because the bigger it is and the more fair and transparent it is, the more competition there is, the more it benefits the consumer, not the monopolistic structures. And I think we can go back to the meat, we can go back to the wires, and we can go back to the bridges -- it's still about the same thing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u69	Thank you. Mr. Mr. Štětina, after him Vice-President Filip. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u70	Hello. Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, two hours to see if there's anyone older than me. It's not. I'm using the law of the oldest. brát of it as a person who still remembers what was here. I will not go back to that, I respect all the opinions that have fallen. Some of them I laughed, some of them are really true, but let's not. I'd like to ask you one thing. Let's end this comedy in front of people. I don't do any pre-election rhetoric, and I'm glad I don't have to do it anymore, but let's do one crucial thing. We have a meeting point here. Let us not discuss whether or not this is obstruction, but let us finally vote to make a democratic decision. I won't be mad either on the left or on the right, but let's end this comedy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u71	Thank you. Vice-President Filip and his point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u72	Thank you, I really do. Mr President, by your means to Mr Kalousek. Yes, he was also talking about Czech butter, that's nice, but he didn't buy it because they didn't have it. That's easy. The fact that a large supply of butter is stolen in the store and then sold out is also true. Please, really, let's get back to the reality of the contract. I have drawn attention to one of the biggest problems here, and it does not concern either the price of meat or the import of meat. It concerns the strength of corporations, the strength of individual states, the degree of possible intervention by sovereign parliaments, sovereign governments, or the shared sovereign states of the European Union, against those investors. We didn't hear the answer. You don't want to give it because you know it's the weakest place in the entire contract. And if you want to be in charge of multinational corporations, then you can take over, it's your will that you want to be in a subordinate position against corporations. I do not and with me many citizens of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u73	Thank you, that was the last point of fact so far. Mr Grospič, now duly signed up. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u74	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I initially did not want to speak to the CETA Economic and Trade Treaty and its consequences, because I think that this Treaty has already been put down sufficiently here, including arguments on why we need to think about whether or not we really need to accept it. But when I listen to the debate and the arguments that are particularly focused on its defence, I think there is also a need for one more notice to be made here, which also has its deep merits and can affect more than 4 million people who are employed in the Czech Republic, and of that much of which is employed in the public sector and in services. Because even there, this contract can unpredictably completely rebuild the environment in which these public services are provided, and it can completely change the conditions of work with the fact that it can also have a very negative impact on the very group of employees. And I don't think it's good. Nor does the argument that we are now in a period of economic boom and that there is nothing to worry about, because, on the contrary, there is a need to free up labour law and bring more flexibility so that companies can choose and people are not bound. Because I think that - and sometimes in 2008 it was said here by colleague Kalousek when he commented on the emerging economic crisis - that there is basically nothing to be done about it, because the market, and that we as members of the Communist Party should know, must deal with it alone, because that is the legality of the social system that is here. But it is the rule of law that can bring a heavy social situation to many people. It is probably not a secret, therefore, that the ECA Economic and Trade Treaty is a treaty between the States and the European Union, namely by individual Member States with limited sovereignty within the European Union, but that it is in fact a treaty between these states and commercial corporations, so that some states can mitigate their qualitative and security requirements, or actually eliminate them. And it is in the context of the whole liberalisation that the European Union is serving us, and it is forcing us to accept in individual sectors, including, for example, labour law. In particular, employees and trade unions are opposed to CETA. They fear that the agreement disproportionately strengthens the very large corporations - which have already been mentioned here - threatens standards on environmental quality or labour law. In this context, it is particularly critical of the Court of First Instance for the settlement of investment disputes. And I think, colleagues, that we should not go away. Here is a great intervention into sovereignty, at least the remaining, national states, Member States of the European Union, i.e. the Czech Republic. In cases where the investor is suing the State - and this is where the role of the dispute settlement tribunal takes place, not of national courts or courts within the European Union - for damage to its interests or failure to comply with legitimate expectations, and which the agreement introduces. This point is then a certain innovation in the arbitration agreement introduced in international treaties and creates a special institute of judicial power outside the existing judicial system, both the European Union, which we often criticise, but also the Member States. And it is worth considering whether we want to build a third judicial institution here or not. I do not think it will do any good and it is not in the interests of the Czech Republic. The General Court and the mechanism for its activities thus constitute one of the most controversial parts of the Agreement. A number of Member States, when this Treaty was discussed in the European Parliament or discussed in national parliaments, reject this mechanism with reference to the fact that the European Union and its members are legal states with an advanced independent judiciary and also points out that the establishment of this court will undermine the principle of universal law and the principle of equality with law. And I think that's a very serious argument. And it also did not say here, and I would expect the government to say that a number of Member States of the European Union want to negotiate a certain exclusivity in this part, that this institution will not apply to them, or will only act in subsidiarity. It is therefore an intervention against democracy because the State cannot sue an investor while the investor can sue the State. This is what I think is the serious distortion of the charging of general law, in the principle of equality, and the displacement of the judicial systems of both the European Union and the national states, on the other hand, on the other hand, is a secondary role in subsidiarity, where the general jurisdiction will have that tribunal. Therefore, how do they draw attention to the legal analyses requested, e.g. A number of European trade unions, so far, will be protected by the right of investors to potential future profits, labour and environmental law will be weakened under this tribunal, and the institute also challenges prestigious, e.g. for example, for your information, the German judicial union, but we could go after the individual Member States of the European Union and find a building chamber in each state where people legally educated are afraid of these steps. [[11.10 hours]] And when I mentioned the German judicial union, it stated that the views and courts of the Member States of the Union are unable to provide effective legal protection to investors, it is clearly associated with the proposal to establish the very international investment court and lacks support in the facts already established. Thus, it is as if we and Canada cannot be legal states, while CETA contracts, but also the type that has been discussed, are being sanctified as completely legal philosophy and access to international trade. The current treaties place particular emphasis on cooperation in the economic field, but the possible negative impact of the agreements on the civilian population, in this case also on employees, and also on the environment mentioned, which has also been discussed here. [[unintelligible]] What is serious is that the consistency of the treaties with the principles of sustainable development and other problems that we no longer can follow are being pushed aside both in Canada and in the United States of America and are not a priority for these countries. So to whom he is not saying this in this context, I would also like to say that the economism of policy in this context does not count on values that cannot be expressed in figures, but is getting rid of the citizens' share of power, and it is the way that we blame just a number of authoritarian states, but on the other hand, we will implement them into the Czech rule of law without hesitation by this treaty, in the absence of a law on a general referendum, which the Communist Party has put forward several times and was rejected by this House, and, after all, the same fate has been affected by the government bill, when the coalition had no power and will to deal with it, and so it itself has not been a good signal, because perhaps it would also be good if citizens of the Czech Republic had decided directly on such a treaty, and it was not about them, but without them. I have one more thing to say here. The question of sovereignty is often discussed. I would also like to say that the concern of trade unions and employees from the generalisation of labour law, which will be imposed on the basis of the adoption of the CETA contract, is based on the fact that there is a significant fear that any state, including the Czech Republic, if it undertakes to implement it by this Treaty, will give up precisely in the name of the liberalisation of all its regulatory interventions, which the rule of law so far gives them into public services, throughout the period of validity of this contract, unless they are published in the so-called negative list, but this is what the parties here prefer not to discuss, and the parties listed in it, for which they mention this or that form of regulation, and all the other services will therefore be considered automatically liberalised, thus being removed from the jurisdiction of the Czech rule of law, or the Czech Republic will be pushed to liberalise it and reduce the standards that we have set here. I am also saying all this on purpose and in the context that we have been discussing, for a relatively long time, a year, more than a year, in this Chamber of Deputies, an effort to amend the Labour Code on a large scale and we, as a Communist party, criticised it because we think it went beyond the original ideas, the substance of the amendment was engraved by reading a number of amendments, and it could seriously jeopardise the spectrum of protection of employees and working standards that are in the Czech Republic. If we accept the CETA Treaty, this liberalisation will be on the table again, because this Treaty will require it directly in the reality of hard practice. I therefore think that we should think about not accepting the CETA Treaty and considering its implications, the real impact on all areas of our society, but, in particular, so that we do not get rid of the sovereignty of the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u75	I thank Mr Grospič. Mr Plzák is registered properly and in fact - so properly. Please, Mr. Ambassador. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u76	Well, thank you. I particularly agree with the left-hand side here in this case, but it seems to me that they really protect the interests of this country, while the rest of us, which we didn't know much about, have underestimated it a little bit. And here we really miss the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, I would really like to ask some questions. What bothers me is that I can quote from the analysis because I think that although we got it, I found out that many of us didn't read it. And that, in my opinion, is the least that we have the opportunity to know about the treaty at all, except for the explanatory report, because the fact that there are no ministers here that I expected the answers from, that probably will not happen if the treaty is voted out today, but I want to have a clear conscience, and I really want to have a serious doubt in this tapestry, and that, in time, we should not hold back what has passed through our parliament. And the argument that it went through the parliaments of other countries, well, you know how it was in Belgium, it got stuck in some way, and maybe if we weren't so kind to the treaty, maybe it would allow us to still get some benefits that we missed. I remembered when we were talking about agriculture and cheap meat, I remembered that there was a politician, Mr. Bratinka, who, in the early 1990s, told us that it was enough for a few landscapers to create the landscape for us, and we don't need farmers because we're bringing food. Today we are trying to protect small farmers and smaller businesses, and this treaty is essentially threatening them. As far as investment is concerned, it is really advantageous for foreign investors, and I felt that the situation is tilting in a way that we would like to invest mainly our investors, because, of course, those foreign investors are transferring the profits abroad, and there has been a lot of talk in the House about it being bothered by us, using our infrastructure, and this agreement clearly supports this very trend. So what's there for those who haven't read it and maybe didn't even listen to colleagues from the left side because it went from the left side, so I have to say that the investment court is really the devil's seed, and that Canada already has some experience with it because it's embedded in a similar style in the NAFTA agreement. I'd like to say that - and now I'm going to read you some of that analysis, and listen well to what it says about the investment court. This agreement preserves foreign investors' right to sue governments for measures that could negatively affect their investments or harm their so-called legitimate expectations. Please, can someone explain to me what legitimate expectations are? And that someone was... Excuse me? [[He's turning to Members of the Chalup.]] I know, my colleague and I are having a discussion here that shouldn't be in the House. So that's what I miss here. And let someone explain to me what legitimate expectations are and if one day as a state we won't pay for the fact that someone here has raised some hope for themselves, that they will make some money here, and that expectation has not come true, and we will pay for it. These safeguards are not offered to domestic investors. We're creating an imbalance between our investors and foreign investors here, and why should we support foreign investors? It has exposed states and their taxpayers to extraordinary financial risks and has also put the implementation of a number of public policies at risk. That's the experience. What bothers me next. I chose only a few things, and it is mainly about the legislation, and we, as legislators, should be very careful about that. In general, Chapter 8 of the CETA agreement allows investors of one party to sue the other party for extensive compensation if they consider that they have suffered losses due to state regulatory measures, such as health, environment, consumers or the stability of the financial system. This actually concerns us as Houses, as legislators, and if we haven't mentioned this area, they haven't reserved it for the CETA, and I, my colleague Luzar here, read it all, I'm not sure if we have it well-equipped, so it can be very retaliation for us in the future, my friends. [[11.20 hours]] Even today, compelling arguments have not been put forward regarding the investment courts. This means that property rights are already fully enforceable in impartial courts today. So why create investment courts? There is no need to provide foreign investors with special rights in international law, as is still highlighted by the current German Federal Government and many others. Just as important is the fact that CETA gives these benefits to investors without demanding any responsibility from them. That means there's a significant imbalance. Investors' commitments, such as job security, respect for human labour and consumer rights or respect for health and environmental standards, are not enforceable through this investment court and their enforcement by other international routes is notorious for its difficulty. Practically, CETA offers property and expected profits to foreign investors with considerable and preferential protection, greater than that available in the law to domestic investors and citizens. Why such an imbalance? I think business is fair to do in other ways. Why is there a thing that can strike us back in the future? I'm just trying to warn you about this because I think logically, I'm not educated in international law that this is really dangerous. What's interesting is that there's no appeal to the court, I don't like that either. If you look with me, then you will learn that if the state takes some regulatory action, and here it quotes directly from the contract in Chapter 12: "The regulatory criteria must be clear and transparent, objective and established in advance and publicly accessible." Any article is mentioned there. "Any breach of one of these criteria is a breach of CETA rules. General Courts formed in the context of a commercial dispute would interpret the calls for such obligations in a way which precludes the competent authority from exercising its jurisdiction in a arbitrary manner.' This may sound harmless, but it should be borne in mind that in earlier investment and trade disputes the word 'involuntarily' was interpreted very differently and to a certain extent inappropriate for not based on reason or facts dependent on individual discretion. Now, take that as a decision by the investment courts, such a subjective matter, and I wonder how they will decide one day. I'd like to quote one last thing, I'm coming to an end, I don't really want to delay. I was gonna lift that finger because I'm not gonna vote for this contract, I admit it. A further article in the Treaty states that the Parties will endeavour to share information during the processing of regulatory regulations and that such consultation and exchange should begin as soon as possible in order to take account of comments and proposals for amendments. Friends, beware, this early warning system would allow the other side to express itself and to make amendments to the upcoming regulations before they are seen by the European Parliament, by the way, by our Parliament. This is the great power that is placed here in the hands of a foreign entity instead of a domestic democratic institution. Do you understand what we're talking about? What may we be preparing for our followers in this Parliament? And we could talk about the environment, we could talk about agriculture. I'm just gonna read one interesting thing, and I'm done. We're talking here about the state having the right to determine who will reside in its territory, to manage unemployment and so on. Friends, the chapter of the CETA temporary residence agreement contains provisions that allow certain categories of workers to move between Canada and the European Union without going through the usual immigration process. For workers covered by these provisions, economic needs tests are prohibited, which means that countries cannot limit the influx of moving workers even in areas where there is high unemployment or where local workers are available. I get it, and I still don't get answers here, if a company, a foreign investor can bring thousands of workers here, even to places where we have high unemployment, and employ them there? We don't even have the right to decide whether these people are staying with us or not? The treaty has so many questions that I can't find the answer myself, and I don't get answers here. I know I may have gotten a little tired of you, I seem to be stalling, but I'm sorry, I have a serious problem with that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u77	Thank you, Mr Plzák. In fact, the Minister of Finance, Ivan Pilný, followed by Mr Chalupa, followed by Mr Kučera. All factual points. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u78	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, there are certainly no ministers who have been called for, the Minister of Finance and the long-term chairman of the Economic Committee, also a long-time businessman, manager and a man who has rich connections with international companies. It would be good if at least some Members, and this certainly applies to my colleague, Dr Plzák, were to hold on to the slogan "shear, stick to your hooves." I'm not gonna operate on my knee. I am not in the next Chamber of Deputies, so I am not going to be doing a dedicated interpretation of any health decrees and similar matters relating to this. Of course, the things that have been said here have already been dealt with at many levels, including many states. Nonsense arguments that thousands of workers will appear here to push Čech out in areas with low unemployment - look at these numbers, that's just bullshit. I would really like us to respect what we know and stick to the expertise that we have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u79	Thank you, Minister. Mr Chalupa and his point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u80	Thank you for the floor. I apologize to Minister Pilný, but I must agree with my colleague Plzák because this matter has not been discussed enough, and I do not agree with him in one. This does not concern future Members, this concerns the citizens of this country. Here, many have a mouthful of protection for businessmen and entrepreneurs. The questions raised by the colleague here are serious and we should hear the answers. I appreciate the fact that there are two ministers of this government. [[Voices from the O.R. Three.]] Three, sorry. Governments that say they have an eminent interest in it. Where are the other ministers? I don't agree. Canada is a country that is very willing to accept migrants, and I am very concerned that there is really no substitute for the allocation mechanism, quotas and so on. What the colleague here said, supposed interests, that's money, and the question is, will there be no pressure on us to have cheap labor? Then, of course, we would have to accept migrants, because no one else will work cheaply here. That's the slave market today. [[Some Members are laughing.]] You're laughing. Look at what migrants are doing today in Western Europe. Do you think they work for normal money? You're laughing. Mr. Juncker said today that the Čech deserve as much cocoa in chocolate as the others. Well, I'm glad Mr. Juncker's telling us, but our government should take care of that. And it says: we will introduce the euro throughout the European Union. Have they decided? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u81	Thank you for keeping time. Mr President of the TOP 09 and Mayor Michal Kučera and his factual comment. After that, Mr Plzák, Mr Votava. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u82	[[The MP's laughing.]] Thank you for the floor. I'm sorry, my previous speaker brought me a little joy. However, I would like to say to the gentlemen of the YES movement that we are talking about a treaty with Canada, whose industry is at a very good level, is more advanced, I dare say than our industry. And that we should be worried about the influx of cheap Canadian workers taking our low-wage workers' jobs, that really amuses me. [[♪ Still smiling ♪]] This was indeed a brilliant comment from the workshop of members of the ANO movement. [[11.30 hours]] In any case, it is the opposite. This opportunity is for Czech companies and Czech citizens because it opens up an absolutely huge market, which is a market for innovation, a market for added value, a market which is very inspiring for our companies. So I would understand if this discussion were taking place on the Canadian side that they didn't want to let Czech companies into their market. But to talk about Czech citizens worrying about Canadian companies coming here, I find that very ridiculous.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u83	Thank you. Mr Plzák, Mr Votava after him, factual remarks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u84	I thank my dear colleague, Minister of Finance, for putting me back on the ground, for actually using my brain only for things that concern health care, and perhaps not yet fully. One tries to use common sense, comes from what one reads, and I expect one of those ministers to answer those questions. I've asked some questions here, and now I'm told you don't need to hear anything, you don't understand it, go back to the ground and worry about your hoof like a shoemaker. So I don't know if we're all in this position, I don't know if we all understand everything. Of course not. But I can't say that education, and we all vote here, only teachers will decide. Only a third of the House can sit here if there's something going on, and the others will go to the sausages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u85	Thank you. Mr Votava and his point of order, after which Mr Chalupa.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u86	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Well, when you listen to some of those posts, and I've seen Minister Pilný here grab his head, that they're even contributions from his own colleagues or colleagues from his political movement, it really remains reasonable to stand by what anyone can say on a microphone. He won't let me forgive my poke on fellow Plzák. He doesn't understand the concept of legitimate expectations. Mr. Colleague, that's probably a "be better," you might know that. It'll get better. That's what you say. She's a question of who, when and how.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u87	Thank you. Mr Chalupa and his point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u88	Thank you for the floor. It may seem ridiculous to someone, we have a government here, or the previous governments have approved the Dublin Treaty and the Lisbon Treaty, and today we are dealing with very complex security issues. And no one expected it to be. We have this treaty here today, and I fear that none of us is at all able to estimate the effects of these contracts unless they are properly explained and discussed from these positions. Because, unfortunately, everyone has argued that we are entering the European Union, and today, in the European Union, it looks like it does. I don't have a lot of time, so I'm not gonna write it down here, but, like, take it to the bottom of a coin, that there's just some contract, and it's cool, and there's no one here to explain it, and I think I know my way around it, a little bit, defense and security, and that migration has something to do with it. You have all assured us that the treaties that have been concluded with the European Union provide us with security. See how the Schengen area is protected. I was discussing the protection of the Castle today. Here they go, to the country that they want and as they want and as there are hundreds of thousands of people around Europe that we know nothing about. I'm not saying it has anything to do with it, but are these things properly discussed? Are we in a hurry? If we're gonna shut this down, we'll always shut it down. I have nothing against Canada, but I have been to certain seminars with Kanaďan who, I say, have a very helpful attitude towards migrants. And those migrants we don't want here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u89	Thank you. That was the last point of fact so far. Another duly applied for is Mr Leo Luzar. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u90	Mr President, gentlemen, two ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I will not be here for too long, and I would like to make it clear in advance that, at the end of my speech, I would like you to vote in a procedural vote, and I therefore advise you to secure enough of your members in the benches. When I go back to the very beginning or not, I dare to respond to the things that have been said here. There have been problems with the labour force and the migration supply, and it has aroused a lot of laughter from the right. I do not know if colleagues know the European Union's plan for the labour supply from third countries. [[A note from the left side of the hall.]] Canada is a third country, my colleague, it is not a Member State of the European Union. In 2000, Europe adopted a plan that by 2030, the number of migrants from third countries should increase, and now I am talking about legal migrants from third countries, in a selective way of up to 20 million. The plan exists, it has its serial number and works in European Union materials. Last year, in 2016, the European Union decided that this project of the European Union, which is intended to prevent the European Union from depopulation, i.e. the loss of labour, it will extend to a new wave of migration. In other words, it will include migrants who are already in Europe and who cannot get rid of Europe, and that has already been tried by Germany, and now Germany admits that the problem is huge, that it simply fails to evict them, so it will involve them in this programme and allocate to it the huge resources that are in the project. They've already been allocated there. And that they'd be separated. Of course, the resources are mainly directed to language education, heading for work education, to health care for those people that Europe expects to enrich its internal labour market. These are workers from third countries, in other words migrants. But Europe abandoned the selection principle that it originally had in mind, that it would choose the workers it needed and adopt the general principle. As long as they're here, we'll figure it out here with this money. Among other things, the debate that is developing today from the half a million crowns we're supposed to get for every migrant we accept or equivalent in the euro is not the money we get as a gift for accepting someone. No, it's the money to match the social differences of those people so they don't want to go to Germany, to Sweden, where social benefits are like that, but to cover the difference, and they could get the same benefits in Germany or Sweden, and they didn't want to go there to stay with us. There is no longer talk of how long we will have to provide these benefits and what we will explain to our pensioners, who have worked here all their lives and are entitled to a well-deserved pension, that the person who comes here does not know who it is, I do not know where it comes from, and gets more benefits in aid than the pensioner. This, of course, does not concern Germany. Germany has treated it, German pensions are higher. That's the problem. We're not having this discussion yet. And I took a turn. But I was really irritated by the laughter that was happening from the right, because he doesn't know anything about it, but only that it's not a current topic and that there's no maple leaf on the migrant's shirt, so saying it's a ridiculous argument, that's wrong. And I think this debate is going to take place on this subject. I'm sorry, I took a turn, but it didn't make me stop. There were a lot of arguments that there was nothing concrete here. In the first reading of this law, I used a purely impact study on the conclusion of a comprehensive agreement. It is an official material placed in our data services, which we have as a basis for this material. This analysis is quite detailed, I warn you, it is neither positive nor negative, it is objective. And they talk a lot about how to understand this contract when experts look at it, not the laymen, not the doctors, not the teachers, but the experts who were assigned to evaluate it. And there are some pretty serious things that come out of this treaty, and they're pointing them out. They don't state, they don't say, they warn the reader to take a picture. I think that's one of the basic things we should discuss. [[11.40 hours]] Yesterday, I was talking about the specific reservations that were raised in the discussion of this material in the countries of Europe, and how these countries in Europe dealt with them in the context of their comments and additions. How did the Czech Republic cope? I'm not saying right or wrong now. I draw attention to the fact that these states, on this excellent business opportunity for Europe, saw a threat to their own national interests and therefore put conditions there. If what was said here by the Minister of Finance is true here, how is the deal business, how do we not understand how the corporations mean well to us, how do they want to open up this free market so that we can get a job and get rich, then I ask: 27 or 26 states outside of us understand how? That these conditions are taking place here and demanding them hard. Maybe it's a question for discussion, I wasn't at the hearing. But anyway, there was one thing I thought of during the hearing. Why is the whole of Europe debating - and I warn you that a little bit of our main media stream misses the debates that took place in Europe on CETA, we saw one demonstration about TTIP, 300,000 people passed through Germany, it quickly took place in the news. But even the CETA demonstration took place throughout Europe. Why does the international treaty, which is really about business, create such emotions? We have had dozens of treaties here in Parliament. bilateral agreements, multilateral agreements. And they were going absolutely smoothly. You've never been interested, why does it really inspire these emotions in people? Just like someone here says to me, 'cause it weakens Russia's influence. Well, then, everyone who says it's a business deal is lying to us, because it's business only as, but it's about weakening Russia's influence. Then it's like a hat off. If this is like the conspiracy theory that's going on here, and someone's following it... And he says, "Summers verified." Well, I don't know about that. But it is not appropriate to comment on statements that sound half-mouthed and without a microphone, since they cannot be returned to them in the course of the record. I won't do that either. But the fundamental problem of the agreement - and here it has also been said from the mouth of my colleague Plzák, without being agreed, even though it may sound that way here in the galleys, because he is a member of the foreign committee, and on the foreign committee I tried to draw attention to the problems with me, unfortunately the time for discussing this material was so reduced that it simply did not go into deeper discussions, deeper analyses. And I said that on the committee, too, that I was sorry, because I think we might have forgiven ourselves for maybe some confusion. That's why I also thank the Ministry of Industry and Trade for the letter, I don't know if you all got it, where the analysis and some of the criticisms I used were trying to answer. But what arouses the greatest emotions within the treaty is the positive - negative system, which I discussed here yesterday, I would like to point out, and how investment disputes will be enforced. It's new. Absolutely new. I also drew your attention to the fact that Europe wants to take this novelty as its direction for the future in the framework of international treaties. But it's not true. She just didn't do it with Japan anymore. And Japan is a much more important partner of the European Union than Canada. They've already backed out of these designs. So it remains today, if we treat the TTIP as dead, only and only in CETA. Right now. Europe has turned back. But this, the ceta, is already running. Backing up now is a bit of a problem. So, in my opinion, bureaucrats in Brussels are praying a little bit for something to happen that doesn't happen to be negative, which could be very damaging to them. But I believe that what I'm about to say right now may help you understand their thinking when they're creating it. That thought was also taken over by the translator's ministry, even by the translator, when he will perform here, I suppose, in the final word, and we will no longer be able to respond to that, he will talk about that, that he can't think about everything, and there is a possibility in the contract that we will simply be able to do that additionally. The problem, however, is that what we can additionally do will go to that committee. The joint body, which is composed of Canadian and European officials, which we may determine, but certainly not elected, who will decide what they do and what they do not. And someone - it was said here, legislation on weapons, what is our word within Europe? As the right-wing colleagues applaud this treaty and as one man, they will support this from the mouth of their club president - sorry, men and women, I assume they will support it. And how do they view their efforts after Brussels' debyrocracy? And by this treaty, they give Brusel great power to decide which Member State is responsible and what is not. Paradoxically, we will set up an independent tribunal, which is artificially established, but has this title, and judges will be appointed there, etc. Among other things, the appointment is quite interesting. But let's just say that this is a legal matter that will be decided. They will be as proxy judges on this matter, but they will not decide according to their consciousness and conscience and the specific case they decide, but according to the decision and interpretation of this Joint Commission. That's a paradox. I kept thinking that if there was an independent arbitrator, he would decide according to his consciousness and conscience. And when, by chance, the arbitrator is, say, unconvincing in his decision, the individual groups, the defendant, the plaintiff, etc. will turn to the court. And then the court will finally confirm the decision, whether national or international. And this is how it should work. In this case, in the CETA, this is not the case. Here the interpretation of the CETA contract is entrusted to the Joint Commission, and its decision is the arbitrator, the court, or whatever you call it, obliged to follow. So when he gets sued by some multinational group to the state that he's lost profits or that he's threatening to lose profits - and now I can invent, for example, the lithium mining and similar matters - then this committee decides whether it's in the interests of the Czech Republic, because we're going to present the interest as a national parliament that we want to protect, we want to prevent bad mining, we want to prevent something, whether it's about the legitimate interests of the European Union and Canada, because there will be two groups represented in the same way. And the European decision... This committee will be superior to our views on this matter. So we will lose the opportunity as a parliament, a national parliament, to defend interests on our territory, because in these investment disputes the interpretation of this commission will be superior even to the opinion of the independent, quoted, arbitration court. That's the biggest problem that arouses the most emotional. That national states are getting rid of the only way to influence the economy, the economy in these transnational matters. And no one really explained that here, and that's the only argument that comes out. In the future, it's dealt with, they'll make the decisions here. But when time tells you how it really is. And this right here is for thought. But I want to focus today on the thing that bothers me personally, because I've taken quite a lot of time to study this material. And I'm just going to turn the right background, if you don't mind. As you can see, there's a lot of material. And getting to the one right is a problem. That's why I don't blame colleagues who haven't read it. [[11.50 hours]] Already looking at the open website of our repository is terrifying when you look at how extensive this contract is, how many exceptions it has, how many additions it has. And logically speaking and reading it would take a huge amount of time. Mr President, if you don't mind, I will get on the table. I think I left it on the table.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u91	[[Almost the next time.]] That is how the Member found the material. I'm tolerance alone, Mr. Ambassador. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u92	And I will allow myself, if I can see that the lines are now gradually coming true, to announce the vote at the earliest moments. That is, if you do, Mr President, even if I leave it up to you, I will not doubly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u93	That's very kind of you, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u94	It's just that I don't get blamed for wanting you to be here as little as possible in some imaginary obstruction. On the contrary, I'd like you to be here as much as possible. I'll go back to what I have to say. When I read into this material and looked for evidence, I came across one thing. I came across the fact that in the argument of the Ministry - and I mentioned it yesterday - the Ministry refers to Article 19.1 which is in the contract and refers to Annex 19.1 and 19.4. which is to be part of this material and is to talk about the fact that the Czech defence industry - the Ministry of Defence is excluded from the rules on transparency of competitions. And there's the appeal. If you got the letter, it's described like this. I was looking for it. I've been through everything - and now if the Minister can convince me that I missed it, I won't be angry because the material is really big, but I didn't find it. I found point 19.1 in that basic contract, which actually talks about it, but I didn't find the attachment. I found an attachment with the same number. It really concerns exceptions and it really lists the Ministry of Defence, etc., but Canada. And these are exceptions for Canada, not for the European Union. That's what struck me, but I thought, "You're mistaken, I guess I missed it." That's why I searched the materials yesterday. And a colleague from the European Parliament warned me of one problem. He said, "You, I don't know, but it seems weird to me." See if you can get your colleagues and colleagues to know the problem that's here... It has been said here many times - Belgium. Belgium's negotiating system. And you all remember, it was also the press that there were some problems in the negotiations with Belgium. And Belgium has made certain exceptions. And I was thinking about it yesterday, and I was looking for the exceptions where they were in the material. And when I compared it to what my fellow Member from the European Parliament told me, I began to think about it and I proposed a procedural vote. And I'm gonna try to read you the text. Then I would like you to vote on it. And I'll tell you what it's going to do. I didn't find all the materials we were supposed to get as a national parliament. I will read you the resolution, and I will be happy to have your attention. And I'll try to be clear. On behalf of the KSČM here I can say that we demand to vote on the repayment of the contract to the petitioner. That's the procedural vote. And now the reasons. Since the petitioner submitted a CETA contract without an interpretive instrument and other accessories, the European Commission claims that the interpretive instrument is an integral part of CETA, therefore the Czech Parliament does not have all the information for the relevant assessment of this agreement. And these are serious supplements, for example. which the Valonian officials have claimed in particular in the area of settlement of investment disputes. Everything is solved by modifications of several pages accompanying legally binding declarations - and unfortunately I did not find them. So, I'm asking, did you all have all the documents for the decision? And it is the exceptions of the most problematic in the material we have to study that, in my opinion, is missing. And I'm really interested in the exceptions to the court or review investment protection dispute that's there. Therefore, I would also like Mr President to have a procedural vote on the fact that we are returning this treaty to the petitioner, and there is nothing to prevent it from being added to these supplements, which the European Parliament claims to be an integral part of this Treaty in order to be re-submitted to us, if any. It has been discussed and approved by colleagues in the new Parliament. But I can say for my person - and I also share the views and concerns of the members of our club in which we discussed these things, our colleagues in the European Parliament, who may have much more information than we think, and sometimes there is such a debauchery in the gallows: what they approved in the European Parliament is always wrong. In this case, I think it is possible to contact our colleagues as well. We should approach this with all seriousness. And if you think that by approving this without all the formalities, the legal requirements required by the European Union, I am afraid that we are getting very thin on the ratification of this treaty in the Czech Republic, and its approval, and it could create further consequences. So I would ask you to express your opinion by voting, and then compare your conscience with whether you are voting on incomplete material that is missing parts, or consider it completely unnecessary, and decide for yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u95	Mr President, I would very much like to put to the vote on your procedural proposal immediately, but unfortunately, there are a few others who are still registered and we can only vote on this proposal after the end of the debate. Not right now. Now, factual remarks. Mr Chalupa, Mr Fiedler after him. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u96	Thank you for the floor. I'd like to highlight one more thing here, because everything has to do with everything. Last week, this House approved so-called an anti-discrimination directive of the European Union. I remember we had it about two months ago on the Security Committee and the gentlemen from the relevant ministry, we basically walked out the door because they couldn't answer us - or me specifically - about four or five questions that had to do with it. And in particular, this concerns the problem that I see as primary, i.e. migrants. Because this directive solves the fact that the European Union will be protected here by the European Union's workers. But if we succumb to the quota struggle, so will these migrants in our businesses. And no one could answer whether or not this anti-discrimination directive applies to them. And in relation to this, of course, there are certain conventions that I just want to draw attention to. A colleague here spoke to me about the arms industry. My interest is to restore the domestic defence industry. And because I don't have the facts and the explanations, because I know how it's done in the European Union today, how foreign arms companies are promoting against ours, I have a problem with that. And again, I don't have any comment and explanation. And I'm just pointing out another directive that's being prepared, and that's that lead, dear friends, will be removed from the ammunition. So our defense industry is going to be in big trouble again. Western countries don't mind because they essentially disarmed their population. Our guys who have guns, they won't have anything to shoot, because actually the lead, if it gets through, it won't be able to be in shotguns, it won't be able to be in missiles, there'll have to be another alloy that's more dangerous, etc. It's for another time. So I'm just saying that everything has to do with everything, and the Union really has it all figured out. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] These are gradual steps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u97	Thank you. Mr Fiedler and his point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u98	Thank you for the floor. I'll just add the words of the previous speakers and the concerns that have been expressed here. When I look at the board, we have a treaty between Canada and the European Union, or the European Union, as far as we are concerned. I think that in our society, not only the issue of the adoption of the euro but also the repressed topic of the referendum on staying in the European Union is beginning to resonate. And I think we should be very careful. After all, one Treaty of Lisbon was enough, which significantly changed the outcome of the vote in the European Parliament and how it is affected and significantly deteriorated by the position of the Czech Republic. I cannot say my opinion here that I think it would be better to return to such a material possibly as a separate Czech Republic. I think that then the content of the contract will be much different, more advantageous for the Czech Republic, if there is a consensus. The warning that was expressed here in a long, comprehensive discussion was quite serious. That is why I think that we should not rush to approve this treaty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u99	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. At this point, I don't have another factual point. Let me read the apology. Mr. Finance Minister Ivan Pilný apologizes at 12 o'clock for work reasons. Mr Karel Schwarzenberg apologizes between 10.30 and 13.00 for medical reasons. Vice-President Petr Gazdík apologizes from 12 o'clock to the end of the day for personal reasons. Now, with a proper application for the debate, Mrs Hana Aulická. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u100	Thank you for the floor. [[Response from the right.]] Again. Yes. I know the Minister is already asking himself to be done. But I would perhaps, through Mr President, really invite him to answer some serious questions. I would like him to enter into discussion because I am afraid that there will be no more argument in the final words. And I think we're all aware that if you say answers or comments or you just say the final words, sometimes we really want to argue and unfortunately we're not allowed to do that anymore. I think that there have been really many arguments that are serious and which may still not be of interest to some of you, but for the citizens of this country, they are impacts that can really affect their lives, whether in employment or at all, a reduction in the protection of employees, or the possibility of people who are not citizens of this country being employed, but will be supplied for work in the Czech Republic. We are currently proud to have the lowest unemployment rate and, on the contrary, we will do everything we can to increase our unemployment rate. So let me just perhaps sum up the areas that really concern, whether they are financial services, trade in services, public services, it is also domestic regulation, it means that we can enter or even regulate as a state of certain areas, intellectual property, agriculture, labour law, climate, energy and so on. I think that we really should think about what my colleague Leo Luzar has said here, about having the opportunity, even though perhaps this Chamber of Deputies, or in this composition, would no longer have the opportunity to go back to that, if we manage to vote to return this treaty to the petitioner and at least have been told or expressed our concerns, which has not been done so far. And I must say that I still think that this should also be discussed in other committees, not only foreign ones, because it really has implications in many areas for the Czech Republic. I really wanted to appeal, and now I am not going to be long enough to vote for a return to recast, and to re-evaluate the entire treaty and get the necessary information, and to buy the time to do so in the interests of our Republic, and now I am not saying at all, as some colleagues have already been told here, that we have got into this elite, I feel, and I think that our citizens of this Republic also feel that we are somewhere on the brink of the European Union and that we are in a position to negotiate with our interests, or that we are not actually able to negotiate with our representatives, so we are slowly not being entertained, and there are, above all, the interests of France, Germany. These are the strong ones who are actually dictating what the European Union is supposed to look like, and they are negotiating other matters with countries outside the European Union. And unfortunately, we really see from foreign policy that our representatives of this country, or this republic, do not have the strength to change anything. And we really see in this agreement that if we approve of it, that we are just sheep again and listening to transnational interests, multinational corporations that are not interested in the citizens of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u101	Thank you, Madame. Now, with proper application, Mr Karel Fiedler. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u102	I will not delay and delay the time until the vote so that we can approach it. I would just like to mention once again that if this Chamber of Deputies, which I know its composition, I know its views, is not willing to accept what I said in my point of fact, I would also like to support what my colleague Aulická said. Let's really consider all aspects. Let's put everything we have on the table. Let us not be hasty in approving what we do not know, all the consequences. And we think mainly of Czech companies, our market. Often it turns out that all rash and quick decisions under pressure, we have to accept it, we will be the last, we already have experience of what has happened in this way. And I dare say that the infamous Lisbon Treaty, which has deprived us of many powers and autonomy, was enough. And what I've heard here about the decision-making in disputes about how they're going to decide how multinationals are going to take the lead, which has been debated for a long time in the TTIP Treaty, which, fortunately, isn't so up to date at the moment. Let's be cautious and take our time. And if you reject what I said in the previous post, then let us wait with this approval, let us explain these things carefully, and only then bind the Czech Republic to something which will be difficult to perform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u103	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now, with the factual remark of Mrs Pěnčíková. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u104	Ladies and gentlemen, it looks like we're coming to an end with the debate. But I feel like you're making fun of us. Look at the benches behind us. [[The government bench is empty, only the Minister of Culture Herman sits at the right end.]] You've been saying here since February that this is one of the most important contracts we've been discussing here, and behind me is Minister Herman with his anticommunism, and no one here is answering us. I apologize to Minister Havlíček, sitting, watching, not responding. [[at the news table]] I don't blame him very much. I doubt he even read the contract. But we can't talk about something like this that you're saying is so crucial to our republic. Get a grip!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u105	Thank you, Madame. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking on this point in the debate. I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. I'm asking if there's an interest in the final words for the plaintiff. [[It's not.]] Mr. Secretary? [[He's twisting his head.]] He's not interested. Does he? Does he? That's how I understood it... So please, Minister, it's yours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u106	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I was here both yesterday and today patiently listening to the debate and the speeches of the various Members, and what was said here was nothing new. The arguments put forward here were the arguments repeated, which were made here at the previous reading, also at the committee meeting. We, as the Ministry of Industry and Trade, spoke to them quite extensively several times as a petitioner. I can also document this on our written observations, the last time from our Ministry's quite extensive written statement of August this year. Although I feel that we have answered all the criticisms or reservations that have been raised here in a rather exhaustive manner, I will respond to some of the questions that have been raised in the debate yesterday by Mr Luzar or today. As regards the area concerned by geographical indications and reservations about the alleged small number of so-called geographical indications for products from the Czech Republic in CETA. It was mentioned that they would not be protected, for example, by mountain carp, Czech cumin and some other products. I would like to stress that the taxative list of products proposed for the European Union in the form of the so-called 'EU' is protected. short sheet, i.e. a list of products whose protection is of economic importance in the present case. In each negotiation, and it does not only concern the CETA agreement, but also others, this list of items is assessed individually with regard to the territory of the other party, and in the Czech Republic this issue is always consulted with those concerned and interested in such protection. The final list of protected designations is the result of negotiations between both parties and in the case of CETA, and this has already been mentioned here, two geographical indications have been established for the Czech Republic, namely Czech beer and hops. The Czech Republic usually also seeks to protect the designation of Czech Budějovice beer, Budějovice burgher's var or Czech Budějovice beer. However, this has not been achieved. In view of the low economic importance and lack of interest in exports to Canada, the other holders of these protected geographical indications did not require the protection of these designations. As regards the question of whether this might put Budvar's national business at risk thanks to CETO, and this has been raised here by Mr Luzar, I would like to say clearly that it cannot. Geographical indication is an additional instrument of protection resulting from the particular nature of the goods due to its geographical origin. Canada did not have this instrument in its legal order and now, thanks to the agreement that has just been prepared, CETA provides protection for these types of selected products. As regards the disputes raised by Budvar, I recall that these are disputes concerning the trademark, not geographical indications. Therefore, the situation has no bearing on his position in Canada. With regard to another area that has been mentioned here both yesterday and today, this concerns the question of the possibility of limiting or extending contracts of strategic importance to so-called. offsets. I would like to remind you that the obligations in the field of CETA procurement are a deepening of the already existing commitments that both the European Union and Canada have towards each other under an existing agreement on government procurement within the framework of the World Trade Organisation. So it's nothing new. If the contract is above a certain volume, the contracting authority may not treat foreign participants otherwise - less - than those of the domestic ones. The principle of non-discrimination is one of the fundamental legal principles contained not only in the CETA agreement but also in European and national legislation. CETA shall apply to entities specifically designated and to supplies of goods and services, unless explicitly excluded. For example, CETA does not apply to deliveries of goods with an overlap to national security. As Mr Luzar mentioned here, this concerns, for example, contracts in the defence industry for the Army of the Czech Republic, where it is assumed that the contracting authority will be the Ministry of Defence of the Czech Republic, which is directly mentioned as the central body of the state administration in the entities included in its Annex 19.1 to the CETA Agreement, and this agreement applies to it. However, it is also necessary to follow the second part, that is the second annex of 19.4, which deals with goods. He's not dedicated to states, he's engaged in goods. And it states that if the contracting authority is the competent national Ministry of Defence, the CETA agreement applies only to the listed goods. On the basis of Annex 19.4, CETA shall not apply to selection procedures such as fighter aircraft, tanks or nuclear reactors. Although CETA excludes the possibility of offsets, or compensation to the national economy when purchasing from abroad for purchases which are the subject of an agreement, since CETA does not apply to selection procedures for security technology, that is the exception of 19.4, which I mentioned, does not apply to this ban and can be used so called. offsets and thus ensure the involvement of the Czech industry if it is interested. As regards Mr Luzar, the issue of negotiating an agreement with Japan, and why the investment court system is not included here. I would like to say to the honourable Member by your means, Mr Vice-President, that Japan has, for the time being, agreed only with a classic arbitration panel, for example, within the framework of the so-called 'Supreme Court'. trans-Pacific partnership. However, the European investment court's proposal to Japan is analysing and assessing Japan and we will see what its final position will be. So it is not true that the European Union has not sought to put this new instrument into other forthcoming agreements, such as Japan. As regards the dispute settlement system between the investor and the State. I would like to remind you that the investment court system with the appeal mechanism was created by the European Union just as a response to public criticism of the existing dispute resolution mechanism by the investor - the state, i.e. criticism of arbitration. This is, and this has already been said, a new mechanism for resolving investment disputes, which brings many improvements, such as permanent judges, the appointment of judges by contracting parties and so on. The investment court system is part of a new approach by the European Union to investment protection, which explicitly establishes, among other things, the right of the State to regulate its own legal environment. Existence of so-called The investment court system is thus without prejudice to the law of the State, the trade unions, for example, which have been mentioned here, by NGOs and similarly suing foreign companies before national courts for violations of Czech law, whether it is the area of workers' rights, the area of consumer protection or the environment. This already existing option is maintained even after the adoption of the CETA agreement. Moreover, and I would like to mention this here, even in the investment court system, as proposed by the European Union and which an investor may refer to if he feels that national courts will not provide him with the standards of protection guaranteed in the agreement, there should be other means of defence, for example, to object to bullying actions by investors or to investors' efforts to unwarranted access to this mechanism. With regard to the area covered by reservations concerning the field of services. Questions have been raised here, and this was particularly expressed in Mr Luzar's speech včera, why the Czech Republic is not mentioned in the case of some exceptions when other countries have such exceptions. I would like to say that individual Member States, in addition to the common exceptions of the European Union, have the opportunity to apply additional specific reservations on the basis of their own interests and applicable national legislation. Therefore, the individual lists of reservations of the Member States differ. [[12.20 hours]] From our point of view, it would undoubtedly not be appropriate for the Czech Republic to apply the same reservations as other Member States unless it has its own reasons for them. This is the case, among other things, for example tourist services, virtually. tourist guide services mentioned here, which are liberalized in the Czech Republic and in most other countries of the European Union, but are not liberalized in France, for example. The Czech Republic is one of the countries with open trade policy within the European Union and, given the nature of our economy, when we are very dependent on foreign trade, we consider excessive protectionist restrictions to be undesirable. The Czech Republic's reservations were and are prepared on the basis of internal consultation with stakeholders, i.e. those concerned, which ensures that all the necessary reservations will be applied. The exceptions contained in the Czech Republic's commitment list reflect existing legislative restrictions, but also leave room for the adoption of possible future additional restrictions in areas that we consider sensitive, such as health or social services. The fact that the Czech Republic does not have any further reservations does not mean - and I would like to stress this - that it could no longer adopt rules or change requirements for the performance of a particular service. It merely means that such rules must apply equally to everyone and do not discriminate against anyone. The question of Czech food regulations was also mentioned here. I would like to say that by adopting the CETA agreement, we do not change the Czech regulations or those relating to the protection of the public health of our citizens. I would like to stress that trade in food industry with Canada is very low in the case of the Czech Republic and, on the contrary, our expectation from the adoption of the CETA agreement is that it is an opportunity for Czech food companies to supply their goods and their products to the Canadian market. In addition, the European Union protects its market by completely excluding 61 items from liberalisation, such as poultry, poultry meat or the said eggs. I completely reject the argument that has been made here with regard to the area of regulation. No standards are lowered by the adoption of CETA and their creation is our sovereign law, which the CETA Treaty guarantees and does not limit in any way. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, let me say this. I am convinced that the CETA Agreement will contribute to the deepening of economic cooperation between the European Union and Canada, respectively. Czech Republic and Canada. I would like to say and stress that this agreement will support our exports, opening the way for us, our companies, to public procurement at both the federal and provincial and municipal levels in Canada, and all of this is in line with the long-term priorities of the export policy of the Czech Republic. Madam Members, I believe that the outcome of the negotiations is good for the Czech Republic, and therefore we should support the ratification of CETA today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u107	Thank you, Minister. I ask the rapporteur if he is interested in the final word. The rapporteur is interested in the final word. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u108	Thank you. I will be extremely brief because the Minister has already said everything before me. I would just like to recall the procedure in the Chamber of Deputies. The Chamber of Deputies received a proposal for an international treaty 22. 12. 2016, then the first reading took place 23. 2. 2017, et cetera 6. 4. 2017 and 11. 7. 2017 providing that the international treaty has been ordered for discussion by the Foreign and Economic Committee. Both rapporteurs informed the House about the results of the hearing. Both committees have made recommendations to agree to ratification. The second reading started on 7. 9. and then 12. 9. and 13. 9. So much for me. Then, of course, I'll inform you about the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u109	Thank you, rapporteur. We will now proceed to the vote on the motions for resolutions. First of all, I would like to ask Mr Luzar, who has presented his proposal for a return to work. After consulting the legislation, it is necessary to adapt the proposal in such a way that it corresponds to the special arrangements for negotiations on international treaties. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u110	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I apologise for the wording of my resolution, but after consulting legislation which specifically does not know the possibility of repayment in international agreements, I amend the resolution. We would vote: 'The House adjourns negotiations until the completion of the interpretive instrument and other supplements'. We would vote on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u111	Thank you. As this proposal has been made, it is voteable. President Kalousek, with priority rights. Otherwise, we are already outside the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u112	I would just like to point out that, in my view, this is a completely different proposal from the proposal to return to work, and because it has not been mentioned in the debate, it is unvoteable. But I don't want to object. I think the fastest thing to do is vote. I just want to report that I don't think we can do this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-001-028.u113	If you do not object to this procedure, we will proceed as I suggested. Of course, this comment has a ratio. I've logged the check-out application. Of course, I will grant this request and ask you to sign up with your identification cards... We have a standing vote. We will therefore vote on the proposal to adjourn this proposal in order to complete further documents. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? This is the 126 vote, 133 Members registered, for 43, against 76. This proposal has not been adopted. We will therefore proceed to the vote on the resolution of the Economic Committee, which is identical to the resolution already adopted by the Senate. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this motion for a resolution. Who's against it? This is vote number 127, registered 132 Members, for 85, against 37. This proposal was adopted. I can say that the motion for a resolution has been approved. I'm done with this point. Now let me offer you a few apologies. Mr Běhounek apologizes for working reasons from 14.30 to the end of the working day. The Minister of Finance apologizes from 12 o'clock until the end of the day for reasons of work, Mr Zdeněk Soukup apologizes from 12 o'clock until the end of the meeting for health reasons, Mr Karel Černý apologizes for family reasons from 11.30 to the end of the day, Mr Josef Novotný apologises from 13. 9. to 15. 9. for health reasons and apologies to Mrs Markéta Wernerová for today's meeting at 11 o'clock for work reasons. [[12.30 hours]] So I'm opening another point, which is point number.
