ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-003-050.u1	50. Government bill amending Act No. 99/1963 Coll., Civil Code of Procedure, as amended, Act No. 292/2013 Coll., on special court proceedings, as amended, and some other laws / House print 987/ - first reading Mr. Attorney General Robert Pelikán is in position. I will ask my colleague Pleticha to take the position at the rapporteur's table as well. Before I give my word to the Minister, I will ask my colleagues to remain calm in the Chamber! I understand that the situation is somewhat nervous after discussing the second point of today's day. We're going to third, we're doing fine. So please transfer the debates that are not related to the Code of Civil Procedure to the foyer. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-003-050.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try briefly to contribute to today's constructive atmosphere and its continuation. The proposed proposal for amendments to the Code of Civil Procedure and other procedural rules, in particular the Law on Special Procedures of the Courts, represents, mostly, the technical principles into procedural law where the current state has proved inadequate, if I am not to say in some cases as unsustainable. These are, very briefly, such changes. A very minor adjustment of the conditions of the call, or thus the possibilities, of the circles of questions in which a call in civil matters can be made to the Supreme Court, when e.g. dismisses the possibility of calling as an extraordinary remedy for deciding on the costs of the proceedings, which is a matter that makes senselessly the Supreme Court burden, and then he cannot concentrate on what he really has to do, which means making decisions on complex issues. Adjustment of certain shortcomings in the Law on special judicial procedures, implementation of judgments of the European Court of Human Rights where necessary. A minor amendment to the law on judicial fees, where the system is better balanced, some charges are reduced to avoid creating an unfair barrier, others, on the other hand, are slightly increasing in order to fulfil their regulatory role. Furthermore, this is probably the most important change, the modification of the rules so called. work schedules, i.e. the allocation of judges and, in particular, the introduction of so-called a random assignment generator to the competent judge, so that there are no manipulations. And lastly, the abolition of the special jurisdiction of the District Court for Prague 2 for traffic offences. That's something that didn't work out. As you may know from the paper, we have some criminal prosecutions for corruption in this area, and it turns out that by simply focusing all traffic offences on one trial, there's too much corruption pressure, and there might be consequences, so we want to cancel it. That is all in the introduction, or I will respond to the debate and please support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-003-050.u3	I thank the Minister of Justice Robert Pelikán and I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mr Lukáš Pleticha. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-003-050.u4	Mr President, honourable members of the government, colleagues, I do not have much to add, in fact, because the Minister said the main points. I must confirm that this is indeed a technical amendment that responds to some of the differences that occur in practice. As chair of the subcommittee on European Court of Human Rights judgments, I very much welcome the fact that this amendment also deals with this issue, which has not yet been dealt with too much in our legal order. I also welcome the opening of the question of the preliminary measures and the issues relating to this, but I think that there are knowledge of practice that may still deserve some debate, but that is within the standard deadlines and standard space, which is between the first, second and third readings. So I suggest for myself that this press be released by first reading. Sorry, committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-003-050.u5	I thank the rapporteur for his intelligence report. I am opening up a general debate for which I have the application from Mrs Helena Válková. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-003-050.u6	Mr Vice-President, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I am a little inclined to disagree with the claim that this is a technical amendment to the Code of Civil Procedure, but I am certainly of the same opinion as the Minister and rapporteur that it is an amendment that is important and will improve the current situation in many sections of the civil court process. As you know, we originally had a plan, and it was also in our programme, and I think we were all counting on it to approve, or that a proposal for a new Code of Civil Procedure will be discussed significantly in the legislative process. The current civil court order has been amended more than 150 times, and it is becoming an inconspicuous law for lawyers themselves, let alone for laymen. It is a procedural tool, it is not necessary for the public to understand it, but it is necessary for it to function as it should - quickly, reliably, impartially, fairly. This is not always the case, even some provisions go against each other and some are missing. This amendment eliminates shortcomings, such really raging shortcomings in some areas. And I think it is not good not to mention them in a slogan, at least, because as Members, you should know that you approve a proposal for an amendment that can make civil civil proceedings easier and speed up significantly, i.e. the civil process itself, and therefore civil proceedings in matters that most of us are concerned with. It is an area of substantive jurisdiction where, in the future, regional courts should discuss and decide on matters relating to the transformation of legal entities which are not commercial corporations. This is currently causing problems. The introduction of a security fee in the event of repeated application for interim measures. Admissibility of the assessment of local jurisdiction with defendants of natural persons pursuant to their permanent residence. Establishment of an appeal against interim measures which have ceased to have effect or have been repealed. So you can see that these are not just technical changes, and I have not yet gone to what I think can touch a number of people who currently have problems with the execution of the decision by clearing out the apartment. There is no adjustment to how to execute the decision in the event that the alternative housing has been granted by a court decision, it is ensured and compulsory is refused to move out. That is what the draft amendment to the Code of Civil Procedure is dealing with, and I think it is dealing with in a reasonable way. Of course, the Supreme Court and all those using the Institute of Calling will probably welcome the concreteization and refinement of the Institute of Calling, as proposed in the submitted press. I was only talking about the SEC, but she's the area of the law on special court proceedings, where there are also a number of changes. And if you're gonna read the press, I'm afraid you won't understand many of them, because they're purely procedural techniques, which, however, in practice, in these custody proceedings, lead to these proceedings going on longer. The amendment to this law on special judicial proceedings is at least trying to remedy the most vicious shortcomings when it is no longer the new Civil Code. Then it's the law on court fees. The court procedure is simplified in cases where a court fee is not paid at all. The barrier to applicants seeking exemption from judicial charges or the provisions of the representative shall be reduced. It avoids abuse of the benefits of the law in the form of exemption from judicial charges to those who really want to abuse and are responsible for the existing legislation. Since I have also promised the Minister that I will limit my speech to a minimum, given that without underestimating you, these procedural rules are complicated for the lawyers themselves, so I will draw attention to just one problematic point, and I would very much hate to put at risk the acceptance for him of all those I have just mentioned, which are very useful, and this is the aforementioned amendment to the law on courts and judges, where I will definitely join in this very useful and for a long time I am thinking of abolishing the special substantive competence of the District Court for Prague 2 in criminal matters against the perpetrators of criminal offences committed in the broadest sense of the word in the field of transport. On the other hand, I think that the introduction of the automatic file allocation generator in general for all judicial agendas is associated with certain risks, and that is why we agreed on a constitutionally legal committee and on a subcommittee for justice and judicial authorities that we are still calling on this point to discuss, within which it should be well discussed both for and against the introduction of this mechanism and, where appropriate, to consider a compromise so that it does not be implemented globally, or for all the specializations of the relevant district courts, but first to test on one judicial agenda in insolvency matters, which is the most pressing, most visible, and, of course, there are various rumors about the fact that it does not always manage to be allocated in the sense of this principle impartially, independently, fairly. And that this agenda really deserves an automatic generator first. Then we will consider the committee and in the presence of invited also the Presidents of the Regional Courts for and against this solution. [[12.20 hours]] So from what I have said here, I think it is clear enough that I support the proposal. That this is not a new civil order, allow me to sigh, but that at least this, and that I hope, even at the end of this parliamentary term, that we will succeed in these useful changes, or I believe that they are useful, to approve in time, and that is why I also join in supporting this proposal and sending it to the so-called. until second reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-003-050.u7	Thank you, Mrs Helena Válková. Another enrollment is Mr Zdeněk Ondráček. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-003-050.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, after Professor Válková has basically summed up what is going on here, I will limit myself to just one statement. And now I don't know if I have understood my colleague enough, but I am concerned about one of those issues which is the abolition of special jurisdiction at the District Court for Prague 2, and I would like you to consider the reasoning that the Minister of Justice is saying about this step. Because he says: We have, maybe we have, at the District Court for Prague 2, which has long, for decades, been specializing in traffic crime, corruption problems, and so we destroy them. So, instead of the Ministry of Justice exercising greater supervision and supervision over these judges and this court and preventing corruption from being committed in this court, he prefers to say that we will dissolve the specialization into district courts for Prague 1 to 10 and we will basically act that we do not see it. So I don't think that's the way to go. And if you remember, and now through Mr President to Professor Válková, we are talking at many meetings about the need for specialization. Specialization in youth, specialization in selected types of criminal activities, because only by specialization will we achieve that we will have experts in decision making. And believe that the transport issue is one of the specialties, and many courts have basically envied Prague that it has this possibility and that the issue of traffic offences is being dealt with in one particular place. For most district prosecutors or district prosecutors, state prosecutors work, who specialize in traffic accidents and traffic-related crime. And it's a certain advantage, because they always know what we're talking about, and they're definitely bigger experts than when it comes down to some kind of automatic generator for someone who doesn't know anything about the traffic. So I'd rather intercede for it, if you know you have such a problem there, and we know that there was a problem like that, if it's still there, I don't know, you need to know that in justice to solve the problem. They have dealt with the relationship of your powers, but certainly not by deciding the issue between the other courts and pretending that any corruption with this crime simply doesn't exist. The automatic generator of assigned items was also mentioned here by the judicial department. I would certainly also argue that this activity should first be tested by pilot either on the issue as suggested by Professor Válková, or at a selected court, so that it would not be implemented across the board with the costs that you assume, because if we piloted to find out that it did not work, it would be another wasted money that the Ministry of Justice's resort could spend more effectively. It has been mentioned that the professional public has reservations about part of the proposed changes, and I expect the professional public to raise these reservations either at the meeting of the Constitutional Legal Committee or at the subcommittee on justice and judicial self-government, and we will be able to continue to talk about these reservations. I do not think that everything that is in this amendment to the Code of Civil Procedure must inevitably go to the third reading stage and be approved, but that is what committees are for us to discuss these matters. I have made one particular point, the abolition of special jurisdiction, because on the contrary, I think that we should go by specialization to make decisions by people who understand the issue. And take it that many decisions of the courts do not answer that. So I join in discussing matters in the constitutional legal committee, if necessary, and I am prepared for such a discussion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-003-050.u9	I thank Mr Zdeněk Ondráček. Mr Marek Benda is now registered, Mr Stanislav Grospič will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-003-050.u10	Dear Vice-President, Minister, dear fellow ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we are less than half a year before the end of the parliamentary term and the Ministry of Justice, which at the beginning undertook to prepare new criminal proceedings, prepare new civil proceedings, bring us here really very partial and in those matters where the most important, so very controversial amendment to civil proceedings. I think it's a big problem and a big mistake, because instead of, in some way, it's in parts that seem like they're going to be going to some sort of agreement in those recodification committees and that there might be some sort of more complex adjustment, delivery and other things that we've been saying to each other - there's nothing happening at all. And here we randomly pick a few things, and that's like an incredibly random one. Reduction of the fee for anti-discrimination lawsuit. Well, that's the stupidest thing we could suggest, I haven't heard in a while. Things that should not be sued at all, where it would be best for the entire law to be abolished, so, in an effort to comply with a few activists running around the Office of the Government for the work of Minister Dienstbier, or around the Ombudsman's office for Mrs Šabatová's work, we will reduce the fee for discriminatory action. It's a completely uninteresting, irrelevant thing, and it's coming here as a major novel. Mrs Válková and Mr Ondráček have already mentioned some of the offences in transport. And I also don't know if there's the happiest idea in Prague where it's worked for a long time, that it's really on it. The District Court for Prague 2 - now it is said, yes, there may be some corruption potential and there has been some criminal prosecution. I don't know if the prosecution has been brought to an end by a final judgment, as far as I know, it has not yet been, so the very fact of the prosecution, I would say, is less than nothing. If I don't have a final verdict, then where the law enforcement authorities and the prosecutors are going, the very fact of the prosecution seems completely meaningless to me, and until I have a final judgment - yes, something really happened here at the District Court for Prague 2 and it really happened that someone was corrupted - so I don't care. So I really don't care, and I certainly can't be interested in the system of how courts are to be administered and whether any agenda is to be there or onde. [[12.30 hours]] I think that the fact that there were all those alcohol-related transport agendas in Prague 2 was reasonable, that it really led to the fact that it was more about unifying the case-law, in simple terms, already in the first rounds, that it was a similar decision. And now, like, we're gonna waste it on all the circuits again without any rational reason except that maybe there's been some kind of suspicion. Because of the individual's failure, the system should never change. I'm always talking about it here, always please, let's not change the system on the case of specific mistakes of particular people or specific failure of individual. I always think it's a big mistake. Professor Válková was talking about an automatic generator. I think that's the thing that's going to be about - and, frankly, in the end, it's the only thing that matters in the proposal; everything else is really almost useless banality. And if we want to accept this proposal or we don't, I think we're going to talk very much about it. I know that there are great doubts about this from among the judges, and I do not know if it will bring us anything substantial. All the automatic generators we've tried so far in justice have led to increased problems rather than reduced problems. Similarly, disputes concerning local jurisdiction in the case of persons who are difficult to determine their residence or where it is associated with large costs. It looks like it's gonna work something out, like I can tell myself which court it is at the beginning, and maybe it'll make it easier for me to make the decision of the first, second degree court. As a result, it doesn't make it any easier for me, because these people are hard to track, which makes it difficult to deliver, so I have some sort of delivery fiction where I can't actually help myself here. And if any of them appeal, and maybe some of them will appeal, the dispute will not be settled at the beginning of the judicial system, that they must find him and be actually able to hand him over in the civil proceedings in some way - to find an agent, to find out if he has an attorney, or to find the person directly and in some way hand him over. They will have beautiful judgments against a person who is nowhere, nowhere, nowhere to be found. And when that person accidentally starts to argue, it's going to be dealt with in appeals or call rooms and maybe somewhere higher, so it's actually going to complicate the disputes. So it's that easy, I don't have a jurisdictional dispute, I can quickly divide it between the judicial system. But as a result of the problematicity of the disputes, I think it might make them even more complicated than to make them easier. And my last point is about famous calls, where I know there's another attempt to rule some things out, it's not the very important ones. It didn't go completely radically. But to all of us who have been watching this for a long time, we have been watching discussions about calls, I just always recommend: go to the Constitutional Court afterwards, because there they will tell you what is not in the Institute of Review, whether it is called or others, so in the end it only ends when there is a violation of fundamental rights and freedoms, and this can happen in many cases, because our catalogue of fundamental rights and freedoms is fairly broad that it always ends in the Constitutional Court. And every time we try to narrow down that throat before the Supreme Court, before those courthouses, and say here we're gonna help you, we're gonna wipe you out, say, some things aren't being examined, the result is that the burden is going to fall on the Constitutional Court. I don't know if it's entirely fair. Honestly, the Supreme Court has far more judges than the Constitutional Court, assistants and other auxiliary staff is much more than the Constitutional Court, so it's a nice thought that says we're gonna help here in some way. But in our judicial system, as it is set up, it narrows down here and goes back to the trial, now I don't want to say a superior at all, because the Constitutional Court, of course, in terms of our constitutional order, is not a superior, but one who can still review such decisions. I'm just having second thoughts about whether the whole bill thing makes sense. I think it's a typical design from this Justice Department's workshop that doesn't solve any conceptual issues and carry random ideas. I am not going to propose that he be returned to the plaintiff for revision, because I think that it is still really possible on the Constitutional Legal Committee, but I think that we are going to throw out most of these things, and it will only be about the fact that the Minister may be able to attach one line in September, that he has managed to enforce one small law this year, which will not improve anything at all on the functioning of civil proceedings. So much for my attitude towards this amendment of the OSŘ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-003-050.u11	I thank Mr Marek Benda. Now, Mr Stanislav Grospič in the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-003-050.u12	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would, if I may, my fellow Members, follow up on my previous speakers, because I take the view that the amendment, although it looks like an amendment to a highly necessary and technical one, which, of course, I do not question, goes far beyond its content as presented in the explanatory report, and now sets out more controversy in the future than in fact the actual problems that occur in the present Civil Code, which, I admit, has been amended numerous times and deserved to follow a pattern, since we have already had a new Civil Code on my part, so that we also have a new Civil Code as a Code of Procedure, and not to go through changes in its ongoing partial additions or amendments. I consider the aims of the bill to be highly ambitious, but I think they miss a certain reality. For example, the division that was mentioned here also in relation to Prague, I do not consider it too, too happy. In this context, I also feel a little bit of a debt in the whole judicial system and, in particular, the Supreme Court, which fails to fulfil the role of unification and unification of the caselaw, which is also a very serious problem which is then reflected in practice in the decision-making of the general courts and, unfortunately, also in the civil proceedings. So this is also from my point of view a contribution to this discussion. Those objectives of the proposal are identified in the explanatory memorandum, are very ambitious, about eliminating the shortcomings of the Civil Code that have occurred in practice, measured appeals from the court's appeal, strengthening the regulatory function of judicial charges, eliminating the shortcomings and special proceedings of the courts that have occurred in practice, implementing the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights and judgments of the Constitutional Court, implementing the tasks assigned to the Ministry of Justice in the European Integration Strategy until 2020, repealing the special jurisdiction of the District Court of Prague 2, allowing the courts to access the information system of the Ministry of Finance, introducing an automatic generator of the allocation of matters to judges outside judges and senators, upgrading the effects of the bill, the effects on the state budget and other public budgets, and new claims on the state budget, or other public budgets, in connection with the envisaged proposal, which envisage, in particular, the connection with the introduction of the automatic allocation of cases and, on the other hand, as Doudův's report points out, it should be stressed that the partial changes in the Law on judicial fees will potentially increase the state budget's income side. The impact on the international competitiveness of the Czech Republic is claimed to be none. I think the opposite will be true. Impacts on the business environment - yes, I would agree with that, they will. The question is, of course, how will the courts of general law and, of course, the Supreme Court of its judicacies be able to do so? In relation to business entities, the overall expectations are then rather positive impacts, in particular with the change in the substantive jurisdiction of the courts. I could continue this way from the point of view of the explanatory report. I would very much hate for the fate of this bill to meet the same fate as the fate of the bill on public prosecutors. This means, will be presented, will be discussed for some time, will be horny close to the end of the term and the law will fall into oblivion, but we will only make a point that the government coalition has fulfilled its goal and the proposal has been tabled. I'd be a long way from that. However, I think that this amendment, as it was presented, is heading towards all of this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-003-050.u13	I thank Mr Stanislav Grospič for his speech and ask who else is joining the debate. I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. Mr. Secretary? Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-003-050.u14	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members, I will be very brief. Many of the things that have been said here in the debate are certainly relevant arguments on the individual points of the amendment. And for this reason too, I did not want the time limit for discussing the matter in the committees to be reduced. I think we're gonna have enough time on the standard deadline to have some more fun over these things and explain them and, if necessary, adjust these things a little bit more. As regards the specialization in transport, it is necessary to say there - on the one hand, the fact that the sinner concerned has already passed a final conviction, for Mr Benda. And as for keeping a better eye on the judge... Well, you know, we live in a democratic state where the ministry can't guard the judges, the judges are independent, the ministry doesn't have operational technology, thank God for that. I hope that never changes. Only the police can do that under any particular suspicion. And you know it's very complicated in the area of justice. So even for this reason, if we're looking at some systemic corruption potential that's accumulated somewhere, it's better that we eliminate the corrupt potential, that's good practice in general. I do not think or believe that this will not cause any disruption to the possible specialization, because, after all, in all other districts outside of Prague, in each district, these crimes are judged without leading to any problem in terms of specialization. Whether or not there will be specialized judges there, that's a matter for a particular chairman. So I think this proposal is beneficial. Then there's just one last point. As I say, I think that most of these things, after all, there were almost exclusively members of the Constitutional Legal Committee, so I think we're just going to continue this debate with the Constitutional Legal Committee. And just a general comment on what Mr Benda said. You know, we are simply trying to implement our proposals for legal regulation responsibly and in respect of legal stability. This means not some spectracular large-mouthed change of everything, especially to change it, but rather minor changes where necessary and maintaining stability wherever possible. I think that's a good thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-003-050.u15	Thank you, Minister. The rapporteur with the final word? He's not interested. I think that there was no proposal in the debate that we should vote to reject or return. We will address the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we will decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order a proposal to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee committee. Does anyone else have a proposal for a guarantee committee? It's not like that. Before we vote, I'll check you all out and ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. So far I've been doing the debriefing when I've been sent to the lobby before, so I'm gonna wait a little while for my colleagues and colleagues to come back. We will decide in the vote number 221 on the commandment of the press of 987 to the committee of constitutional law as a committee of guarantee. I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 221, from 88 for 88. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to the next committee? It's not like that. We can therefore conclude that this proposal has not been directed to the next committee. There were no proposals to shorten the deadline. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur and I finish point 50. Next, we will continue according to the approved agenda item
