ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u1	297. Final report of the Chamber of Deputies investigating the activities of members of the Police Presidium of the Czech Republic, the Organized Crime Detection Unit of the Police of the Czech Republic and prosecutors of the Supreme Prosecutor's Office in Olomouc in connection with the reorganisation of ÚOOZ and ÚOKFK Police of the Czech Republic on 1 August 2016 /Departmental Document 5661/ We will continue the general debate, which was interrupted before the midday break, and I note that we should continue with the factual remarks made by Mr Martin Lank and Mr František Adámek and then by the duly registered Member, Mr Daniel Kort, who will present themselves. Mr. Ambassador, you have room for your point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u2	Thank you for your word. Have a good afternoon. It is rather difficult to follow up on a factual remark on the debate that took place a few hours ago. But I'm gonna try to recapitulate a little bit of what made me sign up for that factual remark. It was the words of Minister Chvojka, who is not here at the moment, unfortunately, when he accused his colleague Chalupa of the argumentatorial foul. I have a need to stand up for my colleague Chalupa in this regard, hopefully it won't be taken as a kiss of death. But it really doesn't mean that this thing didn't happen if the final report said that something couldn't be proved. That's no argument foul, that's just a fact. It's just that the reorganisation took place and we're probably all in agreement here, and it's actually included in the final report that there were circumstances that, to put it mildly, could have been considered a little unusual. I understand that you do not like in that final report, as it is partly formulated, it is unfortunately a bit in the sense that "yes, the deed has happened, but the defendant has been found innocent and, at the same time, we politely ask him not to do it anymore." But unfortunately, in that final report, and it's been said several times, there can be nothing else. If it's not based on facts, it's not proven, it's supported by evidence, so we can't afford to accuse a person of doing something illegal or doing something he shouldn't have done unless we can prove it. And neither party of the dispute has, unfortunately, brought the evidence in. And I would ask that the final report be taken in context rather than everyone tearing out the purposeful passages that suit him and ignoring the others.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u3	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for respecting the time limit. Mr Adámek will be the next one with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u4	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would just return, after all, two and a half hours, to my, I suppose, very brief performance and certainly not exhausting all the time, has caused my colleague, Mr Fichtner, to perform through the Vice-President. I have to protest strongly against this suggestion that perhaps the CSSD club got something earlier, some message etc. I just think that, after all, even the two previous performances by Mr Fichtner spoke about how it is impossible to read three pages of the text in an hour, the more so that we all knew for 14 days what we would get, what it would be about. I don't think it's that hot. However, I must reject any hint in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for respecting the time limit. And now I give the floor to Mr Daniel Korte, who has a proper application for a general debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u6	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Before commenting on the final report of the committee of inquiry, one more thanks must be given. Members working on the Commission and cooperating experts were thanked here. The staff of the Chamber of Deputies must also be mentioned. The negotiations were time-consuming, often until evening, twice even through midnight. And they were loyal to us, and we wouldn't have gotten far without their help. So I give them a lot of thanks for that. A lot has been said here this morning. I'm not commenting on the whole report. I want to focus on the two critical most important points that were most swirling in public space and were most burdened by various misinformations and misinterpretations, even today from this microphone. My first point relates to the so-called Sailor's messages. What exactly is Šlachtův's message? First of all, she is not Šlachtův, because she was conceived by Jiří Komárek, the former head of the ÚOOZ exhibition in Ostrava. And secondly, it's not a message. No message at all. In terms of the report, we understand that it is a structured text that has some initial assignment, brings some facts and data, analyzes them and summarizes them at the end. Nothing of the kind. Šlachtův's message isn't. It is 47 pages of transcriptions mainly from interviews that are still so fragmented and so leaky that frankly I am not sure that it is a faithful transcription of conversations that have been conducted in such linear ways over time, but it can be a text composed manipulatively from several conversations edited vertically. I beg you, Mr. Chairman...
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u7	Yes, Mr. Ambassador. I'll ask those who have a need to communicate with each other, if possible, in the foyer. Otherwise, at least try to keep it down and don't talk out loud. Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u8	I've only written notes, not continuous texts, so it's really bothering me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u9	I'm gonna ask you once more to calm down in the hall!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u10	It's in vain, it's in vain, it's in vain. There's a lot of fun in there. I said the informative value of this text was slim. It's basically a bunch of pub gossip like that: two guys sitting in a pub and one guy says, "I met Karel and he said Tonda's doing it and that." And this, please, is proof for Robert Šlachta and Ivo Ištvan that Tonda is actually doing this. And based on that, there are complex structures that are designed to prove that Tonda is a villain. Without verifying this fact by other means. Robert Šlachta and Jiří Komárek made dog pieces to get this message into public space. With the help of their teammates in YES, they've called a Security Committee. Although the committee was convened legally in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, it was fundamentally unfair, since in the absence of the chairman of the committee, who was on a business trip abroad. That's where they intended this so-called. read the message in front of the television cameras. This plan failed because the committee did not approve the programme, so the meeting did not take place. What went wrong was solved differently and then information from this so called. reports appeared in completely independent Babiš prints, especially Lidové noviny, but also in iDNES. Their purpose and purpose was to embezzle Deputy Police President Zdeněk Laube, Police President himself, as well as the Minister of the Interior. During many hours of interrogation by Jiří Komárek, this one recited to us from this report, dictated it into protocol, until we warned him that we all read it. And the ajta, what a surprise when the next day literal quotes appeared in Babišův's completely independent newspaper. In one unique case, a quote from Mr. Komárek's interrogation appeared in the newspaper this morning, although Mr. Komárek didn't testify until this afternoon. The text itself of this so-called the reports were forwarded to the Commission by the Olomouc Attorney General Ištvan in a sealed envelope. It was placed in a safe reserved room, a secure room where Members could only get acquainted with it by a presentation study. However, the leaks from this report took place all summer. How is it possible, if there were only three steams, how were we assured? One had the author, one had Robert Šlachta, one had Ivo Ištvan. Interestingly, this report lived and lives after its death, that is, when the public lost interest in it. At the end of November, the leak of the so-called reports are being investigated by the General Inspectorate of the Security Corps. At the end of November, an instruction came from the State Attorney from the Prague Supreme Prosecutor's Office that the processor should hear all the members of the commission who came into contact with this report. Thus, the staff of the apparatus also and all Members. It is in itself dusty, because the message is not reserved in the regime. Its author did not reserve it, so the leak from a text that is actually not hidden, saving it is somewhat strange. [[15.20 hours]] However, a few days later came a note from JUDr. Bradáčová, a multi-page letter, insofar as it is completely incomprehensible, by which it modifies the instruction of the processor that Members - Members of the Commission should not be heard until after the end of their mandate in the Commission. I do not know why my position as Member is different from that of Member on 31 January 2017 from that of Member on 1 February 2017. There's probably some subtle nuance that only Mrs. JUDr understands. Bradáčová. However, I consider this act to be an attempt at coercion, an attempt to intimidate the commission at the moment it approached the final work, i.e. to draft his final report. And it's an attempt to discredit the commission. Please note that there is no distinction between a witness statement, an interrogation of the suspect, an interrogation of the accused. It's just that such a person is a vulgar suspect, against whom the fact that he's being interrogated says in particular. Well, what's the credibility of the report written by dirty suspects? The Commission has had an assessment of the procedure of the State's Attorney Bodlák from a reputable lawyer, who notes that the procedure of the State Attorney concerned was procedurally flawed and therefore illegal. Ladies and gentlemen, that is a hell of a finding. The prosecutor, who is to oversee the legality of law enforcement procedures, acts illegally on his own? Therefore, I have decided to initiate the matter to the Supreme Attorney in order to exercise supervision. The second point I want to focus on is the famous so-called. alerting SMS. What's the genesis of this story? The ÚOKFK implemented the TESCO SW company and confiscated David Tesařík's phone in which he found the famous SMS: My source only knew that they were coming for the tata tomorrow. This information is factually defective, because the police were not interested in Dad, but she came to do a house search on her son. However, the FOKFK handed this matter over to investigate the General Inspection of Security Corps and there it was found that the communication of the phone, respectively. Simky, pointed to the circuit of the then North Moravian Regional Director of the Police of the Czech Republic and today's police President TomáTomáš Tuhý, specifically his former wife and son. However, GIBS could not bring this matter down and, after 14 months of tough investigation, postponed the matter without the processor plk Mgr BC Vaculík and the supervisory representative from the Olomouc Supreme Attorney General JUDr. WeOšlejškovášková wanted to note a significant detail that the SMS is reversed, not an incoming but outgoing one, although this was confirmed by an expert opinion which Mr Vaculík himself requested from the Criminalistic Institute, which makes it quite clear. In that case, in my opinion, there was no logical or legal reason at all to investigate the family surroundings of the police president. Strangely enough, the resolution on delay with the wrong conclusion again escaped to the media. Especially completely independent Babiš's Lidové noviny spent the whole summer on this case. I had to laugh a lot when I went to the committee meeting on Thursday, 18 August, and at the club I was flipping newspapers, and there was a two-page story about how the police president warned and how crooked the police president was. And I knew I'd tell my colleagues at one o'clock that it was different, because unlike Mr. Vaculík, I read the expert opinion. The icing on the cake is then when Vaculík at the witness' testimony apologized for this mistake by his inexperience, for he has only been an investigator for seven years. Finally, the whole was published on the website of the Foundation Fund against Corruption. As possible, when there were only two vapours, one was carried by the General Inspectorate of the Security Corps, the other was based in a file on the Olomouc Supreme Prosecutor's Office at JUDr. Ošlejšková and this file was embargoed? What's an information embargo, I'll talk about it after a while. That's how the story went down. In June 2016 she arrived at Olomouc The Attorney General's request for information on this resolution, according to 100. Then followed by a whole series of remarkable but fundamentally non-standard steps. One. Head of the Department of Major Economic Crimes of Olomouc Supreme Prosecutor Petr Šereda, by the way, head of a completely different department than JUDr. Ošlejšková. He took the file from her. So I don't know anything about the circulation of files at the Olomouc State's Attorney's Office, but it is assumed that the files are circulating vertically and not horizontally in the office. The second very non-standard step was that Mr Šereda had this resolution copied by three secretaries so that none of them knew the whole. Why didn't he just copy it? He could not explain this enough. He stated that this was for the purpose of anonymity, but it did not happen. And the third fundamentally non-standard step was that he called on Mr. Jiří Komárek to assess whether they could publish the matter. Eventually, they decided not to give it to the questioner. However, the point is that Mr Komárek had at his disposal this written resolution between 10 and 20 June. We don't know how long, we don't know what regime Mr. Šereda had in his office, if he had it at home. We don't know, but it's not important. The important thing is that Mr Komárek appeared on Czech Television on 20 June, where Babišův's media agent Jiří Hynek provided the space, accusing the police president of a brutal leak of information. Of course, this expression is so attractive in media terms that it took immediate action. What is remarkable, though, is that when I asked Mr. Komárek to translate the word brutal, he was unable to do so. When I translated it to him that it was a raw leak of information, and I asked him to explain it, he wasn't capable of it either. However, the point is that he could not draw this information from any source other than that written resolution. And as I said before, then this written text, not the original text, in the written text there were various writing errors, typos etc., appeared on the website of the Foundation Fund against Corruption. The question is, who gave the text? The answer is: either it was one of the five prosecutors of the Olomouc High Prosecutor, who got the text according to the witness' statement, or it was Mr Komárek. Tertiume non datumr. In any case, the matter is being spared by the General Inspectorate of the Security Corps. [[15.30 hours]] In conclusion, the worst comes. Mr. Šereda's procedure is fundamentally non-standard. Why did he give the text to Komárek? Mr Šereda's answer: On the basis of trust. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a state authority acting on a trust basis. Until now, I thought that the authority of state might only do what the law allows it to do. Please, I do not know a law that allows a state authority to act on a trust basis. The Olomouc State's Attorney's office just broke loose, the laws here, the laws there, and they did what they wanted. In this matter, as you have been informed, the Šereda Commission is filing a criminal complaint. There's more of these excesses of state prosecutors, please. We have found that the prosecutors normally interfere with who, specifically within the police department, will be engaged in an agenda, with whom they will address this agenda, with whom they may speak about it and with whom they may not and so on. This last problem is the so-called information embargo. I will read to you what it looks like: doktorka Ošlejšková, State's Attorney General of the State Attorney General in Olomouc, first of all, states that the contents of the file will be presented to the Board of Directors of the GIBS, Lieutenant Colonel Mgr Bc Milan Vaculík, and this GIBS member will be the sole processor to carry out criminal proceedings and sign all communications with the SAO on the outside. Secondly, the GIBS police authority will ensure that the file is not accessible in the GIBS information systems and thirdly, information on the matter on the outside is reserved by the SAO's supervisory representative in Olomouc. This measure is being abused quite a lot, and there are absurd situations. When the director of the GIBS, Colonel Murín, testified before the committee, he could not answer any questions at all because he simply does not know the file. GIBS saves three circuits. For one thing, leaking information, that's, for example, leaking the text of who the source is. Mr. Tesařík knew something from someone, even though it was wrong, but who the source is. Saving leaks from the so-called Šlacht report, saving escape from the resolution. That's one circle. In the second round, Mr. Komárek's criminal complaint against Mr. Tuhý is being investigated in Mr. Tuhý's third complaint against Mr. Komárek. Mr. Komárek's criminal notice has been established in the meantime, but that's not important. The important thing is that these three circuits are logically and factually closely related. And, oh, stand up, the state's supervisor has put an information embargo on Mr. Tuhý's criminal report, and there is basically one matter under investigation. How are these processors supposed to cooperate, share information when they're working on practically one thing? I believe that it is absurd in a militaryly organized congregation for a superior not to know what a subordinate is doing. His supervisor signs his traveler and doesn't know where he's going, why he's going and what he's doing there. That's nonsense. I therefore turn to the Supreme Attorney, I hope that if he does not listen, we have the Minister of Justice, he can tell him to consider not giving a generally binding order to apply this measure only in really exceptional cases and, above all, to always be duly justified, because as it seems, as I have read it to you, it seems very arbitrary. In the morning, the President of Emeritus has also read our accompanying resolutions to you. I would briefly comment on two relating to the proposal for amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure. Under the current regulation, the State Attorney is entitled to participate in the conduct of the Police Authority's operations, to carry out the individual act personally, or to conduct the entire investigation. I believe that this provision is non-systemic. The prosecutor is to exercise supervision, that is to say, he is to exercise insight and objectively control that a particular investigator is proceeding within the limits of the law, in accordance with the law, that, for example, he does not place under the table evidence that speaks in favour of the accused. At the moment the prosecutor conducts the actions of the investigation, he becomes an investigator himself, and he oversees himself. It is logical that it also loses perspective. We therefore propose to delete this measure. The second measure shall be entitled to order that acts in the matter be carried out by another official within the police authority. The prosecutor is authorized to order a matter to be investigated by an authority, but the authority is not an individual police officer. The D.A., when he's picking up individual police officers from individual departments, based on trust, I don't know, he's basically running the police. The prosecutor is to determine which department will process the matter and give it to a specific processor should be the head of the department with personnel knowledge of its personnel, who is specialized in what, who can do what. And that's why we're proposing to dismiss this right from the penal code. Finally, I would like to answer the question of what has actually been going on for several months since June and what has happened. I stress that this is my reading and my interpretation of these events. Following the publication of the intention to make organizational change in national departments, which is fully and exclusively in the competence of the Police President and the Minister of the Interior, an angry and slanderous campaign against his authors, the Police President, his Deputy Minister and the Minister of the Interior has fallen apart. In particular, the leaders of the UOOZ, the Supreme Prosecutor's Office in Olomouc, Babišův's completely independent media, organized the hunt for the police president and hysterified the public, giving the impression that the state is shaking in its foundations, as well as the political leaders of the ANO movement. The chairman of this movement claimed to be stepping out of the coalition, the Minister of Justice claimed that if a reorganisation was carried out, he would consider his resignation. He also placed the highest prosecutor when he sent a protest letter to the Prime Minister, who was printed in Babiš's independent newspaper the same day he was sent, so that the addressee could probably read it in the morning in the paper before he got it in his hand. By the way, frankly, I don't think the Chief Attorney in the personnel and organizational affairs of the police at all. This is a matter for the police president. I wonder what the Attorney General would look like if the Police President were to kaffrish him about how he was to occupy and what function he was to delegate to the State's Attorney. [[15.40 hours]] The purpose of this campaign was clear. It was to shut down the police president, shut down the Home Secretary, weaken the Prime Minister and destabilize the entire CSSD. Ladies and gentlemen, what we witnessed was an attempt at coup number two. The coup number 1 took place three and a half years ago by intervention on the government, which carried out the same persons and the same authorities. It was the ÚOOZ under the leadership of Robert Šlachta, it was the Supreme Prosecutor's Office headed by Ivo Ištvan. What is the result after three and a half years? None. Zero. When five years from this zero is zero absolute, Dr. Ištvan will probably throw his hands off and say, well, I had a different legal opinion. After the bombing, after the spectracular intervention at the Office of the Government, the bombastic press conferences were followed by their actors, where tens of kilograms of gold were discussed, etc. The result was the fall of the government, the result was early elections. The result of this great anti-corruption revolution, as the publicist Bohumil Zeman calls it, is that the oligarch with the motto of running the state as a company did not say that the state sees it as its business and therefore all citizens as its employees. And what happened? What happened was that none of the slanders, suspicions, and accusations at the time were proven. It has not been proven that the organizational change has been made to shut down Robert Šlachta. Robert Šlachta left himself. He got offered a position in the management structure of the newly emerging headquarters, the National Headquarters against organized crime, but he rejected it with the words that it was a scumbag. There was no haunting that several hundred people would leave the police force. Six persons left immediately in connection with the organizational change, in six months of the existence of NCOZ some two tens. This is a completely slim number for an eight-headed choir, which is more like a normal normal fluctuation. It was also not fulfilled that organizational change was made to sweep under the table some important, sensitive, politically sensitive cases. For example, the implementation, the December realization in northern Bohemia, in which Mrs Váhalová, former Vice-President of the Czech Social Democratic Republic, is involved, is evidence of this. [[Messenger. Falty from the diaper: Vanyhová.]] Excuse me, thank you for fixing me. I'm sorry, Mrs. Váhalová. [[A voice from the diaper. I ask that we not shout at each other.]] Thus, the negative effects have not yet been shown. Ladies and gentlemen, we have no choice but to say that this attempt to coup their actors failed. And that is certainly good news for the citizens of this country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u11	I thank the honourable Member. Before we go any further, I would like to read the apology of Minister Miloslav Ludvík, who apologizes for today's meeting at 17:00 on account of urgent work issues. With a factual remark from the point of view, the Minister of Justice came forward, followed by a right of priority with a proper application by the President of the House, Jan Hamáček. Minister, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I confess that I am confused now because, as far as I know, the committee has acted undercover, and what is undisclosed is just the final report. And now Mr Korte here has been telling us a long time about how things were going on on that committee, what he heard there, what he saw there, some of it read. I don't understand. So you're either breaking the cover, or I don't know. And I refuse to do that. So either uncover everything, or follow it and do not speak of it. But it's not like some members of the committee are gonna choose what they're gonna graciously tell us and what they're not gonna say. And then there's the famous essay. So I only use public resources because I don't have any, and there I read that the text wasn't alone, she was part of some kind of communication. And it sounded like this, the way it is on the Internet: "Hi, David. Hey. Any luck finding out the details? Write here, please. My source just knew they were coming for my dad. He didn't know the reason. Fuck. Now just here, please." Ladies and gentlemen, I don't really care which one of these texts went to, but if the police president can't explain how the SIM card that was involved in this communication got to his son, I think it's a serious problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u13	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Korte is signed electronically, followed by the actual Minister Chovanec.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u14	I haven't leaked any classified information. I mean, read your boss's paper. Everything I said here was contained in them within a few months.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u15	Thank you. Now, with a factual remark, Minister chovanec.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Pelikán seems to take this more personally than is healthy. And if you wish, Mr President, to address who has begun to describe the details of the committee's proceedings here, I highly recommend reading the tapes from Mr Chalupa's speech. Please read nicely who started this. On the seven sides, who said what he looked like, why he looked like that, etc. etc. I think you're just pulling the charade you started here, and you know you're losing, and you're trying to blur it out at all costs. What you've read here, those texts -- you're dehonesting an independent police president again. Based on what pseudo-proofs? So either tell us straight out here that you've requested a report from the D.A.'s office, which you're legally entitled to, or you're using some public resources and you're insulting the country's highest police officer in public space. You shouldn't do that as a member of the government. And if you haven't come to that, I'm afraid you're not supposed to be there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u17	I thank the Minister. Now Mr Blažek's electronically registered factual remarks, followed by Mr Chalupa, then Mr Ondráček's report from the place.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u18	Hello. I will just remind the Minister of Justice that he is a member of the government, which means the government is responsible for who they have appointed for its effectiveness and authority, and you are sitting in that government, not me. You're responsible for the police president as a member of the government, not me. You don't have to be in that government if there's a pazgrove like I say after Moravia. You're staying in it, and you're legitimizing Mr. Police President. I didn't! [[15.50 hours]] For the next one. That message, you're not gonna find the defense's word about the text being one way or another. But a committee of inquiry, just like the law enforcement authorities, can only say what is proven. We're having a political debate here, and everyone has the right to say that he doesn't like the police president, for example. It just wasn't possible to write what you said without evidence, because the law enforcement authorities didn't prove anything like that, and it's very difficult to expect from us with a minimum of resources, apart from interrogations and what the law enforcement authorities would present to us from what they already had, so that we could somehow support this claim. But, Minister, once again, the government you are a member of, and Mr. Police President is your police president, not the president of the opposition.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u19	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for respecting the limit. As another Member of the Chalupa. Mr Ondráček, after whom Minister Pelikán, joined the post of Mr Ondráček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u20	Thank you for the floor. Mr Police President runs the Police of the Czech Republic, which serves all citizens of the Czech Republic, which means that there is no distinction between who is the coalition and who is the opposition. That's how I understand it. As for some text messages and phones, the police president didn't explain how the SIM card got on his phone. I didn't. Definitely. And no one's gonna investigate that anymore. There's a lot of missing stuff. And what Minister Pelikán said here - we don't know where it came from, where it went. Escapes are proven because the way it's quoted here, you don't want to make a fool out of people that someone's been talking to themselves on the phone. That's nonsense! And anyway, folks, it's six months after the reorganization that we didn't stop, we don't know if it's a good thing or not. Nobody said reorganization was a bad idea, but the way it was done, it was wrong. That's for sure. Nobody's saying that if this were discussed, we may have come to the conclusion, after the national security audit, that it would be good to reorganize, but the way you did it, I just don't agree with it. And that it has something to do with other things, that's what I've been saying. And it's six months after the reorganization, and we're talking ex-post about some things that are already irreversible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u21	I, too, thank you for keeping time. Now we've made factual remarks. With the first Mr Ondráček, after him Minister Pelikán, then Mr Blažek, then Minister chovanec. First things first. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, I, as a member of the committee of inquiry, was not even here in the hall this morning, and I watched it on TV because I have only one thing on my nerves and health. Now I've come for a while, and I'm gonna leave fast again and watch it from a distance. I would merely say to Minister Pelikán through perhaps the President. Mr. Secretary, try to see if you have information when you're commenting - and it's beautiful, it's emotional, you're doing it nicely. But the investigation committee itself did not work under the covert regime, under the Secret Information Protection Act, only it was not public. And that's the difference! So no classified information about the course of the negotiations - no one breaks the law, there's no such thing. Only the activity ended on 31 January, and what was going on is up to each of us who were on that committee of inquiry, whether or not we want to comment. I don't want to comment, because what was cooked inside, and what was inside, the result is on your desk, you've all met him, and you've also learned the vote ratio. So nobody breaks the law. Nothing was in the classified information regime, only the commission acted on the basis of its decision in a non-public manner. We are now in front of the Chamber of Deputies and discussing publicly the results that we have reached after half a year of the Commission's work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u23	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now, with a factual remark, the Minister of Justice will respond. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u24	It is not so true, my colleague, through Mr President, because the Commission's Rules of Procedure say that members of the commission of inquiry and other persons who attend or are present in the negotiations are obliged to remain silent about the facts they learn about and may be deprived of this obligation only by the House's resolution. I didn't notice there was some sort of House resolution. So that's what the Rules of Procedure say. And to my dear colleague Minister Chovanc. I'm not hitting anyone. I just read open sources. I can't request a report in this because I can only request a summary report on the ongoing proceedings, I can't request a detailed report on a wiretap or intercepting a telecommunication call. I'm reading open sources, and those open sources are just very upsetting to me. And they worry me all the time, and I think every citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u25	Thank you. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Blažek. [[The appointed man is conducting an informal interview with the Minister of Finance.]] Your two minutes, Ambassador! Don't tell me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u26	Hello. I'm sorry, but we had a little thing to talk about with the Treasury Secretary. I would only respond to Mr Chalupa. I fully agree with him that we don't care who the police president is. But someone has constitutional responsibility for him. And all I'm saying is that the Prime Minister is here complaining about the police president, that he's responsible for him, not the rest of us, but the government. And I'm just gonna say again, no one's forcing anyone to be in a government where there's some really bad police president. But if he stays in that government, unlike me, he's responsible for him. I don't.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u27	Thank you for keeping time. Now, with a factual remark, Minister chovanec.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u28	Once again, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Through you to my colleague Chalupa. The Police President in this country shall be appointed by the Government on a proposal from the Minister of the Interior. Not the minister himself, but the government in the congregation. I even think that this police president has been appointed by the government with all the votes, which, of course, cannot mean that he will not change his mind in time. I understand that. On what Mr Pelikán has shown here, through Mr President. Minister, my colleague, don't be mad at me, but you are the government's official, the government's minister, the Minister of Justice, you are reading some texts here that are not verified. Well, at least I was hoping that you had it verified from some source and that you're putting at least some text messages you have verified here at the address of the highest police officer in the country. If you look at the text you were quoting here, I don't really remember it exactly, it says that the first text goes to a phone where it hasn't been identified, whose hands it's actually found itself in - the president, his son, if it's even around his family, we don't know. And it says, "They're coming for Daddy." Please, if you look at open public sources, you will find that there has been no arrest in the Tesco SW case, Minister. From my point of view, there was a collection of information, a collection of evidence, but there was no arrest at all. That means you're still admitting that the police president of this country is some kind of hack, that he doesn't really know what's going to happen there, and he's running some kind of pseudocommunication. What you're doing here, Minister, is completely ridiculous. You don't have proof that it's headed to the police president, even the information isn't valid, and you're using it here without any shame. Where are we? You're the Minister of Justice, please! You're not the Minister of Transport. Justice should be weighed on the pharmacies' scales. And you're dehonesting the man who runs the Glee Club... [[Time warning]] I would very much like you to stop, or we'll have to transfer it to the Coalition Council, because if anything is a violation of the Coalition Treaty, that's it! [[President: Thank you for meeting the time limit]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u29	President Hamáček is not yet coming, Mr Lank's point of fact is still here. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u30	Thank you for the floor. Please, when it's operating here that maybe the police president was supposed to be involved in some suspicious communication through suspicious phone numbers and phones, it's much more complicated than the way it's sometimes presented here. Here's a text message -- and be careful, not that she left a warning, but on the contrary, she found out the number, and the number was in contact with another number, another SIM card. And then this SIM card happened to be on the phone, for a short, one time, in which the SIM card was then briefly registered to one of the relatives of the police president. That's how complicated it is. It's really broken not through one knee, but at least two. I just want to point out that if it should be criminal that one of you is in contact with someone who's in contact with a faulty person, given the environment we're in, we should all go to jail!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u31	Thank you for keeping time. Now, therefore, with priority rights, President Jan Hamáček. After him with priority rights, Mr. Vice Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u32	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Madam, honourable Members, I very much appreciate the confidence you gave me at the beginning of the parliamentary term when you voted for me by almost all votes as President of the Chamber of Deputies. And I am convinced that you would not just vote for me to take turns with my colleagues in managing the meeting and to give the floor, but also to answer when I feel that the Chamber of Deputies or our democratic system is under some kind of pressure or questioning. That's why I just can't keep quiet about what I heard this afternoon at the Minister of Finance press conference. I consider the Minister of Finance's remarks to be absolutely scandalous and unacceptable to the Commission of Investigation. I consider them questioning the foundations of democracy in the Czech Republic. We are parliamentary democracies. The Chamber of Deputies is endowed, among other powers, with the power to set up a committee of inquiry. The investigation committee shall have the powers of the police authority. And I simply cannot accept what was said at the Minister of Finance's press conference. I understand that the Minister does not like the conclusions of this committee. However, this commission was set up in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies on the principle that all parliamentary parties, including the Nominant of the ANO movement, were represented there. And the final report was approved, as far as I know, unanimously. Therefore, the voice of the ANO nominee. What struck me further was that the Minister of Finance - I am glad that he has arrived, and maybe he will say something about it - that he did not bother to come to the Chamber of Deputies meeting and sent his remarks to us by telemoste. I hope that now, he's present, that he'll comment on the matter and we won't be taking messages through the media. But I would really like the Minister to moderate his words on this matter. And for the statements he's already made, and he's not gonna take them back so he can apologize for them. And I hope that they will continue to do so during the negotiations on this point and do so before we arrive at a detailed debate, because if they do not, I will be forced to propose a resolution by the Chamber of Deputies in a detailed debate that will call for an apology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u33	I thank the Prime Minister. And with priority rights, Mr. Finance Minister Andrej Babiš will now speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u34	So hello. Thank you for the floor, ladies and gentlemen. Well, I figured out the interpellations. They told me that at 16 o'clock... [[Laugh left.]] I made an exception today. I was looking forward to Mr. Kalousek's bonds. So, a few words to Mr. Hamáček. I really consider this committee of inquiry a clown shop. I find it absurd that Mr Blažek, former Minister of Justice, has become President. Because the Minister of Justice was a minister in June 2013, when the Office of the Government came to the ÚOOZ, and we were in a state where the godfather ran this country through Prime Minister Nečas' mistress. And in that government was Mr. Schwarzenberg, Mr. Kalousek, Mr. Fiala, you were all sitting there. So I understand you're upset with the O.O.O.O.O. on the Slipper. So he had a conflict of interest in the committee. We wanted Mr. Lank here. He has no tradition in corruption, so we wanted him. Well, you guys voted for it somehow. Same clownhouse as the D47. This is for people to know, this is the bell track from Olomouc to Ostrava, where they threw trash to the ground of the highway and where Eurovia is represented by a Mr. Radek Pokorný, a close friend of the Prime Minister. It worked out, too. Mr. Birke handled it so badly that he didn't solve it. So those committees are what they are. And I have no reason to change that. I've been to that committee, and my whole... I don't know why they invited me. And the way it went down was that my colleague Korte here was testing me, and Mr. Bartošek and Mr. Dolejš, a close friend of Mr. Rath. And actually, I felt like I had done something wrong, and that I actually belonged in prison with the Šlachta. Because I've met Mr. Šlachta about five times, and Mr. Laube has always been there, and I've always wanted my life. Once she tried to kill me in the gambling lobby, then the Albanian mob, then some pill, and I don't know what. And all those meetings were at the Ministry of Finance. And there was even one on the Security Council of the State. And Minister Chovanec remembers. That's where the Albanian mob tried to kidnap my daughter. And I've always met him in the official attic. But the committee, the questions where I was actually in the position of an accused person, it was about, "What's up with you and Šlachta?" Well, I don't have anything to do with the Šlachta I should have. The Prime Minister said the State would take care of him, so Deputy Secretary Schillerová took care of him. So I don't have anything to do with that committee. I have no one to apologize to. Well, I'd like to move on to that psychic interview. So my colleagues here have prepared me kalouskový's bonds for the citizens...
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u35	Minister, it would be appropriate to speak to the point, on a point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u36	I'm talking like I'm talking like I'm talking like I'm talking like I'm talking When we were discussing the EET, Minister Kalousek spoke for five hours about the warehouse in Vrbětice. So we have democracy, everybody says, so let me talk democratically, okay? So when did the story with the koruna bonds begin? Well, we have to go back to 2011, until Miroslav Kalousek, at the Ministry of Finance, finalized the preparation of details of his spectacular savings bond project for citizens. [[Noisy in the hall, restless.]] After the 2009 deficit fired from the incredible -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u37	I'd like some peace in the room. The Minister has signed up with priority rights, he is now speaking.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u38	After the 2009 deficit went off to incredible 192 billion and the credibility of the Czech Republic shook in financial markets, in 2010, the deficit was still incredible, more than 156 billion, and then 142 billion in 2011, Mr Kalousek concluded that it was time to start looking for resources to finance this crazy economy right in the pockets of the citizens of the Czech Republic. [[Permanent noise in the hall.]] As soon as he returned to the minister's post after a short break in 2010, he announced as one of his priorities - a return to his project, the foundation of which he began to lay bonds for citizens in 2009. But how to get people to instead take their free money -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u39	Minister, I'm sorry again. I ask all those who speak aloud to do so in the foyer, not in the hall.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u40	To buy a rather perverted product, such as a government bond, instead of depositing their free money in a bank's term account or closing savings. Kalousek knew that with the motivation, he had to pay more interest, that he would offer more money to people than the banks offered them in their financial products. So Kalousek set high and completely disadvantageous interest. The State sold five-year citizens' bonds with a yield of over 3%, while it could borrow more than a percentage less on the interbank market at the time. Mr. Kalousek knew he couldn't set a higher interest. Not because the state is losing more. He didn't care how soon we were going to show ourselves, but because he was already massively criticized by analysts across all media and banking houses for the set amount of interest. There was open talk of embezzlement. In the end, it was just an unbearable amount of interest -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u41	One more time, please, quiet in the room!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u42	- that put an end to this project. But Mr Kalousek needed citizens to be able to beat down bonds, buy political popularity, and find out very soon how. He incorporated a tax trick into the bonds for citizens to increase their advantage. And here we get to the beginning of the whole story with crown bonds. There was a gap in the Income Tax Act, which theoretically allowed no income tax to be paid. The gap was that the tax base for 15 percent of the taxation of the proceeds of securities sales was determined separately for individual securities, while the tax base is rounded down to the whole koruna. If the nominal value of one bond is one koruna, due to rounding, the effective tax is zero. Although the theoretical possibility of this practice existed legally and the market knew about it, almost no one dared to use it because it had no doubt that the Financial Administration would act. In 2011, just before the issue of the first issue of Kalouskův's bonds, the first Internet bank to start using this method to offer savings. Therefore, its clients did not have to pay any tax on the interest paid by the bank. When journalists asked the Ministry of Finance in 2011 what he was saying and what he was going to do about it, instead of having a clear conviction, Mr Kalousek accepted the idea and decided to make his product more attractive in the same way. Saving government bonds for citizens therefore each had a nominal value of one crown. If you bought bonds for a thousand crowns, you had to buy a thousand one-crown bonds. If for a million, you didn't get a bond worth one million, but a million bonds worth one crown. In total, Mr Kalousek sold 65 710 548 504 pieces of single crown bonds to 73 492 holders during the years 2011 and 2012. Yeah, so it's $65 billion. By this step, Miroslav Kalousek and the Ministry of Finance led him to legalize the error in the law and set off an avalanche that the state, according to conservative estimates, is losing approximately one billion a year. Mr. Kalousek consecrated a hole in the law, a law he couldn't handle on his own. To get his bonds to the citizens, he allowed them not to pay a crown on interest. Throwing money out the window live. And he prepared a very Solomonian statement for it at that time. We must strictly comply with the Income Tax Act without any derogations. Therefore, there is no exception to savings government bonds, no exemption and a standard withholding tax applies, Mr Kalousek stated in a statement stating that the law also clearly states the rules for calculating the tax, including rounding. Indeed, the effect of rounding is zero. So, okay, first he said to keep, and then the tax is zero. On 7 October 2011, Hospodářské noviny, who warned that the Ministry of Finance had opened the floodgates, showed to companies or banks that one-crown bond could be used, was expressed by Kalouskův's first Deputy Minister Ladislav Minčič, Deputy Minister of Taxation. I don't know why it wouldn't be the subject of massive repetition. It's legal to use every tax loophole Mr. Kalousek said. The private sector began to cheer, for the state register it meant a fall in tax revenue. If the state did so, not only legalized the procedure, but even gave it a kind of morality, Pavel Kříž, for example, commented on PwC's partner. And what happened next? Firms and banks began to issue more and more bonds. Overall, they were issued for 177 billion, nominal value of one crown, their income tax was not paid. The Czech National Bank, which confirms the conditions for issuing bonds, recorded record issues, betting company Tipsport yield 6 billion, UniCredit, CP Group or state-controlled Czech Aeroholding, all of which are data from open sources. So the koruna bonds that somebody's trying to blame me now, that's, above all, Mr Kalousek's story and his attempt at political popularity at the cost of economic embezzlement. And even though he is now making excuses for his incompetence that he did not know, and for officials, it is very clear that he knew very well personally what he was doing and what the consequences would be for the state budget, and his Deputy Minister Minčič's statement clearly confirms it. I'd go back to what the press said back then. Title, Young Front Today, 1. 10, 2011: Kalousek hallowed a hole in the law, from interest he won't get a crown. The state can lose up to billions of crowns very quickly if banks, businesses, or private investors respond to a hole in the law, which was officially consecrated yesterday by the Minister of Finance and which makes it possible not to pay from interest and other earnings or koruna on income tax. The Ministry of Finance, yesterday in Solomon's written statement, said for the first time that the state would not get a crown out of the newly planned savings bonds for citizens. At the end of the article, which is longer, the Ministry's spokesman says that they will certainly deal with the hole in the future. And that was 1. 10. 2011. Article 7 October 2011, author Marek Hudema, Olga Skalková, Hospodářské noviny, section Finance. The state is going to get 20 percent of people's loans. So I think everything can be traced. I'm glad I was able to express myself as part of the interpelling process. There are more of these interventions, so I'll be very happy if everyone remembers how it's going to be, and of course we can prove all of this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Thank you, Mr. Vice Prime Minister. A point of fact is made by President Fiala. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u44	I would just briefly comment on the opening of the Vice Prime Minister's speech on the point where he questioned my colleague Pavel Blažek as chairman of the Commission. I would like to state and remind all of you, Mr Vice Prime Minister, that Pavel Blažek was not the chairman of this commission because he was a former Minister of Justice or a member of the Nečasův government or something like that, but Pavel Blažek was elected a member of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. He has a mandate of equal value from the point of view of understanding democracy as you do, and on the basis of the fact that he is a Member, he has been elected President of the Commission of Investigation by the will of this Chamber of Deputies. You may question the political views of Pavel Blažek, you have every right to do so, but you cannot question this fact. Pavel Blažek is a duly elected member of the will of the people, Pavel Blažek was appointed by the will of this Chamber of Deputies as chairman of the commission of inquiry and as such performed his duties. What anyone has done in the past has nothing to do with it and in this way do not question the personality of Pavel Blažek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u45	I thank Mr Fial. Mr Jan Birke, Mr Pavel Blažek, then Mr Kalousek, Vice-President of Vondráček, points out with a point of fact. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u46	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, I understand that I have become - and I don't know why I deserved this - from the mouth of Mr. Babiš, the Vice Prime Minister, through you, who constantly takes me to his mouth. I don't know, I guess I'm popular in YES, probably very. On the other hand, when we talk about D47, Mr Vice Prime Minister, through the President, I don't have to? [[expression of disapproval from the diaper]] But I don't really care, I want to be correct.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u47	You can go straight to Mr. Vice Prime Minister, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u48	Oh, thank you very much. Well, Mr. Vice Prime Minister, of course, I'd start working at the D47. The problem is, you didn't give it completely, your YES movement didn't give it to your nominees. That's why... [[Voice from the diaper: Dawn.]] Well, of course, úsvit resigned, never once came. Then when you added your nominees, just so you know, one of them wasn't there once, and one of them was there once. So stop calling me "Birke" all the time in the media! I'm tired of hearing it. And I certainly am not one of those people who doesn't work. And finally pick someone else as a target. Although I understand that this Hradec Králové, when we all conspired against you, as you say, you can't forgive me. Well, I suppose you did, when you called me a thief three months before! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u49	Mr Blažek, a factual point, followed by a factual remark by Vice-President Bartošek, then by priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u50	Well, I thank the chairman of our party for the nice words about me. However, let us not be so mean to the Minister of Finance. As far as I'm concerned, he said I was once in a government. It's true. I was in government. Then I noticed some Czech Palermo. I'm from Moravia, so it couldn't have been about me. So basically, I have nothing to defend myself for. The minister was actually far too reasonable, I would say. I've been waiting, I've been seeing that things could get worse, so I've come out okay. I was in some government. And colleagues from the Czech Republic should defend themselves from the commission that it was about them. I have no reason to resist or blame the Minister for anything.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u51	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Vice-President Bartošek and his point of order. After that, a factual comment by President Kováčik.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u52	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Since my name was mentioned in Mr. Vice Prime Minister's opening speech, I need to ask: Mr. Vice Prime Minister, how do you ask questions during the investigation so that they are not stupid? [[Minister Babiš from the government bench: Not like the police, my colleague.]] You know, we're the investigation committee. [[Oh, yeah. But I didn't do anything.]] But no one said you did anything.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u53	I beg you not to shout at each other. You speak to the House, please respect the House.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u54	I mean, nobody told you you did anything. We were asking questions that were trying to get to the bottom of things. Just as we asked you, let's say, unpleasant questions, we asked them equally strongly to others. The questions were no different. The chairman of the committee said I used my diary. Yes, because I was writing down the statements of the individual people who came before the committee. I analyzed that and then asked questions based on it. But I consider this a standard way of working to get information, analyze it, and if I don't understand anything, I'm going to ask. And believe me, I would like to appreciate the work of all the members of the committee and of your party. These were often not simple discussions. [[Minister Babiš: We are a movement yet.]] You're still a movement, okay. But we understand what we're talking about. That's good. That's why I want to say one thing. The questions were awkward. We've gotten to a lot of things. And once again, the final report is not merely a statement, but two criminal reports are part of the final report. Maybe if we asked softer, otherwise, better and happier, we would have a message today that wouldn't actually contain anything, and we wouldn't hear that we're asking stupid questions. Maybe if I go to your school, you can tell me how to ask the right questions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u55	I thank the Vice-President. The following are factual points. Chairman Kováčik, President Stanjura, Minister Babiš. All three factual points. Minister Babiš, excuse me, he wants priority rights. So it's Mr. Kalousek and Vondráček's priority rights. Please, your two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u56	Thank you for the floor. A third time, then, ma'am and gentlemen. A relatively substantive debate on a relatively substantive report and clear conclusions, two criminal charges and a motion for a specific resolution, turned into a coalition killer here. To me, the condition seems to be a marriage in which, even though I know that a government coalition is always a marriage of reason, it is rather insurmountable resistance that prevails, and so it is just before the divorce. But the election won't be for months. I would like to ask you, let us go back to the substance of the discussion of this report. And the other way I want to say, on behalf of the law, the esteemed government coalition, it's time for you to break up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u57	Thank you. With a point of fact, President Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u58	I don't usually do that, but I'm gonna try to help Vice-President Bartošek. You asked Mr. Vice Prime Minister how he imagined such a meeting of the commission of inquiry. Let's do it like this. Hello, Minister of Finance. We are deeply sorry to have called you in, but you spoke so much about it that we had to ask you. Do you understand that? Yes, thank you, I understand. Another question from another member of the committee of inquiry. Mr. Secretary, how do you make it so good? I'm trying. Then a member of the INC from the ANO movement comes forward and says, Minister, you are even better than good. You have to try. I work all the time. And the last question, and that might be the end of the interrogation. [[Fun on the side of the hall.]] When you're standing here and we're hollering at you, you're not gonna laugh.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u59	I'm gonna ask my colleagues not to braise on each other. Please continue, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u60	And the last question should be, and it would be based on the hard talks that Andrej Babiš provides to the Young Front, the People's Newspaper, and it might sound like this: Is it really true that your opinion that they write the truth about everyone else in the paper and about you lies? Yes, of course. I draw from public sources.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u61	With a factual remark, Vice-President Vondráček. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u62	Thank you for the floor. Let me say that the police haven't spoken about the reorganization of the police here this afternoon. I'm logged in with Mr. Kalousek's priority right. I think it's appropriate to get this block here, and then we'd go back to reorganizing the police, so I'm withdrawing my application with priority rights. In front of me, Minister Babiš will speak. I'll check in later.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u63	Thank you. Those were all factual points. Prime Minister Kalousek, after whom Minister Babiš.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u64	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to apologize deeply to all members of the committee of inquiry for the popular warrior cry of the Easter savages Kalousek! Kalousek! distracted from the point we are discussing, namely the final report of the ÚOOZ investigation committee. We're discussing that. Minister Babiš here tells us he's responding to something within the scope of the interpellation. We don't have an interpellation point right now. I'm the one who downloaded my interview. I didn't ask any questions. He was answering something here, I don't know what nobody asked. No matter how confused it was, nobody just asked the question. So, Minister, you said at the press conference at noon to quote exactly, "I don't normally go to interpelation because it's a fag, and I prefer to work for people, but this time I'll make an exception and I'll come because Mr. Kalousek will be the first one." I'm flattered, I've been a lot of things in my life, I've even been number one, but today I was flattered by the title of an interval. But I didn't bring my intervention, I'll do it the next time you find the courage to be here. You don't have the courage, Minister of Finance, to come with me to one single TV discussion, you don't have the courage to come here when I'm drawn to an interpellation, even if you say you're looking forward to the inter-pack. We're probably gonna make you happy for the performances that you've been putting on a point for no reason, so we're just gonna call an emergency meeting for your obvious tax fraud. And there'll be enough room for you to comment on that. But now, please, let's not interrupt your obvious tax fraud, let's not interrupt this point in the final report of the committee of inquiry, because the committee of inquiry has done a professional job, it states factual facts, it is not a political document, it is simply facts that have been voted on by all members of the committee. Each of our factions had a representative there, and they all acknowledged that the facts are true facts that they do not pay the media kitsch that has been fed to the public for several weeks, about the heroic and brave police officers of the ÚOOZ and about the impartial and honest prosecutors, that it is very, very different. And I am grateful to the committee of inquiry that she told us how it is, because it is an institution of the Chamber of Deputies. The House of Deputies, which has decided, I repeat, by all votes. The attempt to de-honest her chairman is ridiculous, comic, awkward. We all know that the chairman of any commission is the first among equals, that he does not have two votes, that he has one vote. And if all seven members of the committee have spoken for that text, so we can trust that text, because it was our representatives that we sent there with full confidence. Just as TOP 09, with full confidence, sent Mr. Korte to the committee, so YES sent Mr. Chalupa with full confidence, ODS sent Mr. Blažek there with full confidence, I can continue. Our opinions, the idea of a way out of this House differ, but we each had our own representative there, whom we fully trust. [[With emphasis:]] And they all agree on the facts that are presented to us. And to question these facts, to call them clowns, is to despise parliamentary democracy, Minister. You answer to this House and you weigh your words! You're not all-powerful, omnipotent, even if that's how you feel. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u65	Thank you. Mr Chalupa and Mrs Lorencová, with a factual remark, two factual points before Minister Babiš. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u66	Thank you for the floor. I've been repeating myself for several times today. I'm not taking anything back, but in summary, the only fact that committee has proven is that we haven't proved it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u67	Thank you. Mrs Lorencová, she's taking it back. With priority rights, Minister Babiš. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u68	Thank you for the floor. I will certainly not answer to people like Mr Kalousek through Mr President! I answer to the citizens of this country! My constituents! [[No.]] I'm sure you don't. [[A disturbance in the hall, a statement of disapproval.]] So I won't answer your question. You who have devastated --
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u69	I'm sorry, Minister, but you are mistaken, you are obliged to answer to the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u70	I can tell myself what I want here. [[Screams, pounding into the benches.]] You're here - your Palermo, you stole this place, I can repeat it to you again, your ROP Northwest and other things. You're not gonna say I'm doing some tax fraud. Sure - you lost billions of your tax payers by law because you were an incompetent finance minister, who also chopped 670 billion debts, and you were unable to make a bill that would bring taxes into the budget. I make laws that bring money into the budget. So I'd beg for it. And a TV debate is a waste of time. Because if someone's a demagogist and a liar, I'm sure I won't be wasting my time with him. So I would really ask for some lies about me doing something wrong. Unlike you, I've posted all my income. Then try to make your income public, Mr. Ambassador. Show people how much you've been taking since 1993, how much tax you paid. A journalist even told me that you didn't use your credit card at all. Then what did you live on? Then say it! I said it. I paid 337 million of those taxes. And you're testing me out here? Well, do it, show us how you bought the apartment and where you actually live, what kind of property you have, I said it like. Then you should shut up. So I'm gonna do it. And Mr. Birke. Please, I didn't say you-- you're a hard-working man, I don't have a problem with that. All I'm saying is that the D47 investigation committee is the same clownhouse as the committee you're dealing with here. Because that's where you had a conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u71	Minister, please address me through a Member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u72	Yes, through. Your attorney, close to the Prime Minister, represents the company against the interests of the state. No? He usually represents companies against the interests of the state. Shame Transportation etc. I don't want to deal with this here. So I don't know. I didn't say you were a thief, I didn't say that. On the contrary, you were saying something about the conflict of interest law that I played something. That's what we explained. I understand that as the new election manager, you need to show that power now, but it's not. I just want to go back to Mr Bartošek through Mr President. You didn't even ask me about police reform. All the questions were what I had with the Sailboy. Well, I didn't have anything to do with Šlachta, I said it when I met him. Even Minister chovanec personally told me that Mr. Laube and Mr. Šlachta would come to me and that someone wanted to hurt me or my family again. So you didn't ask me once, that was an interrogation, Mr. Korte, Mr. Kalousek's nominee, and that was just an interrogation about what I had with the Schlacht. That's all you asked. Mr. Dolejš, a friend of Mr. Rath, too. Everyone. [[Report to the O.R.]] You never once asked me about the reform of the police, as it was, that the coalition treaty was broken, that it wasn't planned as soon as possible. Not a single question like that. It was an aggressive interrogation that made me feel why I was there, what I did. I didn't do anything. Nothing at all. And the Member - here, Mr Blažek, through the President, has been very polite to me. Even Mr. Lank behaved himself. [[Laughter.]] But I like him! [[General cheer, applause.]] Because I don't have a problem with him. He, the poor man, was the Minister of Justice on 13 June 2013, when the movement was still here - you made fun of us, and he was the Minister of Justice and got such a soda: How could you let that Šlachta come there? Why didn't you report it? And what was that Attorney General doing? You were driving it. How come you let that Šlacht into that office?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u73	Please ask questions through me. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u74	Sorry, through the boss.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u75	To the office through me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u76	I'm sorry, through the President. So you got a soda. I understand that you didn't make it, that you let the IOOZ go to that office. So I have no problem with you. You've always treated me politely - through this. [[Laughter.]] It's okay. So I was gonna say something else? So there was nothing about police reform. I'm bohužel so. And we clearly have a different view of that. We think the main problem was that the cases that were being investigated weren't reported. But I figured out the interpelations, so I'm not gonna elaborate anymore. Thank you and goodbye!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u77	It's a real point. First of all, President Kalousek, Mr Blažek after him, Mr Dolejš. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u78	Minister, you have no doubt the right to do so under the priority right. Nevertheless, I beg you, let us keep your obvious tax frauds at an emergency meeting that the TOP 09 and ODS will convene, where you will have all the room for these trash statements that you are now giving us. But don't distract the investigation committee from the work now. I'd like to ask other colleagues to do the same. Tax fraud, bonds, abuse of the law and use of the law, let's save all this for an emergency meeting to be convened. And now let us not mock or demean the work of our colleagues, who have done professional work, have presented their report to us. We should discuss it and adopt a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u79	Thank you. Mr Blažek, his point of order. After him, Mr Dolejš.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u80	Thank you for the floor. Well, that's a tough reaction. [[With laughter:]] Minister, I wouldn't want to be your sweetheart, because at 12 I was Czech Palermo, at 16.38 you like me, so I'm afraid what will happen in two hours! [[Laughter.]] But I don't want to downplay the debate. I'll take your word for it - you're the one who named the ROP Northwest. I would like to stress to Members for the YES movement and, in fact, to you that, by what I mean in December, the arrests that took place in this matter, it is such a small proof that the reorganisation did not prevent the continuation of any prosecutions and the like. That's what the new headquarters did, and she did it like there were no changes to the police. So here's the proof that it didn't stop anything from happening, and it's gotten caught in the hallelujah. [[16.40 hours]] The second thing, and I will follow up on the talks with colleagues from the YES movement that I had in June. That was a long time when there were a lot of rumors. That is, it was said at the time: it is done so that it does not be arrested there, or it does not search and so on. When Mr. Šlachta was there, it was on my proposal, so I basically said, and now, Colonel, we're gonna talk about the rumors that are going on. I made about three rumors myself that I knew. Other colleagues, too. And I'd like to tell my colleagues in the YES movement, I remember the rumours they heard back then, the answer to everything was "No." That means, if you still believe that something concrete was being prepared then Colonel Šlachta directly, and not just him, but especially Colonel Šlachta told us that nothing like this was going to happen. And I understand that there are a lot of different rumors going on in this house, but just those rumors you told me weren't true, and who else would know more than Mr. Šlachta. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u81	Thank you. Mr Dolejš, Mr Bartošek, followed by Mr Dolejš.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u82	Good afternoon. I would like to respond briefly to Mr. Vice Prime Minister Babiš's speech, my friend Standa Gross, that is the only thing that brings us closer from the point of view of the past. [[Reactions in the O.R.]] Maybe he can tell us what they were dealing with Standa Gross. I have always discussed politics with him as with other colleagues in social democracy. I would like to say one thing that it can be demonstrated from the protocol that, when Mr Babiš was questioned, there was, of course, an opportunity for him to comment on the reform, that he was also asked questions about the attacks against the Minister of the Interior and the Police President and about the reform. He merely referred to the press, to his press, to the media, but no evidence for his claims that the reform was rigged, that it was purposeful, did not prove. Similarly, neither the prosecutors nor the police provided any evidence. And that's obviously what bothers Mr. Babiš, because it doesn't fit in with his Goebbels propaganda that we're witnessing now. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u83	Thank you. Vice-President Bartošek and his point of order. After that, Mr Komárek and his factual comment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u84	Just a short time again. Minister, I would like you not to call the committee of inquiry a clown. I take it as a contempt for Members' work, and I don't like it, and I want you to know that. Maybe you didn't like the questions I asked. I understand that. But if you're investigating, you either need to disprove or confirm some theories, some hypotheses. Those questions must have come up! Perhaps if you were on the committee of inquiry, we would have had the conclusion, including the motion for a resolution, the same night, because you had an opinion and knew how it was! We didn't have that opinion. We've really listened to everyone fair and square. When we needed to be more specific, we invited other witnesses because we were looking for the answer. We didn't have it. Maybe your movement works differently or you work differently and you know what the truth is. But this committee has taken the task of finding out how it really went down. And for that, I'd like to appreciate the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u85	Thank you. Mr Komárek and his point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u86	Thank you for the floor, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to respond to my colleague Kalousek. He's leading us to a substantive debate on the report of the committee of inquiry, but there's no substantive debate here. Here we see that social democracy is forcing its ideological interpretation of the nation into believing that it is doing an election campaign for free. You can't really do an election campaign from here, you guys are wrong! I just don't know why the opposition is helping her. I mean - I don't know - I kind of know.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u87	Thank you. That was the last point of fact so far. Mr. Vice-President Vondráček, with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u88	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Well, it won't be easy to follow up on this discussion. I wanted to go back to college, repeat, we're talking about reorganizing the police. But she did a little recording of my previous speakers saying we're supposed to have fun, we're here to deal with the professionalism of the committee, we're supposed to evaluate the material that's been covered. On my part, this will not be an abuse of the right of priority, I am acting here as a representative of this Chamber, and my point is to adopt, where appropriate, resolutions which correspond and have some legal value, a legal culture. I will not comment on the facts that are in this report, but I have fundamental and great reservations about the quality of the motions for those resolutions that we should adopt. And in this direction, I would like to make another discussion. I believe that point II. the draft committee of inquiry is quite unclear and it is not clear what the committee of inquiry actually requires. This is not clear either from the justification given in the final report. The Government of the Czech Republic has shared competence with the Minister of Justice as sole plaintiff only in the appointment and dismissal of the Supreme Prosecutor. He has no such competence in relation to the officials of the Supreme Prosecutor's Office in Olomouc under the Public Prosecutor's Act. It is not so obvious what should be the result of the activity or measures that the government should adopt. The appeal of the Attorney General is in the shared competence of the Minister of Justice and the Attorney General as a plaintiff, and only because of misconduct in the administration of the State Attorney's Attorney General does not need the proposal of the Attorney General. For the appeal of the Deputy Attorney Generals, the proposal of the relevant Attorney General is always needed. At the same time, competence in disciplinary proceedings against prosecutors is not given to the government of the Czech Republic, but results from legal regulation and is given to the Minister of Justice and the Supreme Prosecutor. So what exactly does the Commission require? I am sorry because I assumed a really better text from this committee, especially in respect of my colleague Blažek, a good lawyer, the former Minister of Justice. I also have comments on point III.a, even more fundamental. I believe that the draft resolution of the commission of inquiry, which contains a proposal for the adoption of a law establishing a different procedure for criminal proceedings against prosecutors, is at this point contrary to the Constitution and Constitutional Order of the Czech Republic. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 80 The Constitution is a public prosecutor representing a public action in criminal proceedings, and the Constitution itself makes no exceptions to this rule, nor does it authorise the adoption of exceptions at legal level. If a public action in criminal proceedings or some part of it were to be transferred to an entity other than the prosecutor's office, it would be necessary to amend the Constitution of the Czech Republic in this regard. Imagine the deadlines they put on the investigation committee. If a public action in criminal proceedings or some part of it were to be transferred to a body other than the prosecutor's office, it would really be necessary to amend the Constitution. At the same time, however, the motion for a resolution does not contain who should be such an authority. We overheard it might be some sort of investigating judge. We do not have such an institute in the Czech Republic. We're talking about a fundamental reform of criminal proceedings to be implemented within a period of three months, and I'm saying it right. In the present system of public authorities, however, I do not see any other body capable of carrying out this activity at expert level, in particular from a professional and practical point of view. Another issue of preparatory proceedings against existing or former prosecutors. On that point, it should be noted that the prosecutor's office is capable of conducting criminal proceedings, even successfully, against individual prosecutors. This is illustrated by well - known examples from both the ancient and recent past. For my part, it never occurred to me that I would stand up for prosecutors here. I've always been more critical, and that it's necessary to really change the style of their work and attitude, but this goes deep beyond the edges. We have moved from reorganization of the police to the area of deep criticism of the Supreme Prosecutor's Office and basically setting up a system of activities of law enforcement authorities. If you look at it with optics and logic, then even the courts should not be active in the case of judges, so that they do not follow them. There is a question of who would judge a judge when the constitutional principle applies that no one must be taken away from his legal judge. If we use the ad absurdum argument, then the other body should also transfer civil disputes where one of the parties to the proceedings may be a judge. [[16.50 hours]] I have reservations about point III. the following points (a) and (b) are inserted after Here is a request for the amendment of the Criminal Code in the interruption of the limitation period for criminal activity associated with abuse of jurisdiction with prosecutors. I have to say, of all the statements, this has hurt me the least, but when you think about it, this proposal also runs counter to the Constitution, because it runs counter to the principle of equality of citizens. Even the leading prosecutors and their representatives are persons like any other, they have rights and any other rules bound only during limitation periods and are clearly discriminatory to their function. I don't think he could pass the constitutional test. By the way, every time we deal with some kind of excess in our House, I always end up here, and I deal with constitutionality, it's always directed in some direction. As the House, as legislators, we really should begin to behave and respect the area of fundamental human rights and the Czech Constitution. I do not see in the proposal either the ability to fulfil the purpose or the actual need, and certainly not the adequacy of such a measure in relation to the intended purpose. Similar practices are associated with the immunity of certain persons, but senior prosecutors and their representatives have no immunity, not even criminal. The proposal in question de facto puts the state's leading prosecutor in the role and priori of suspects and prosecutors as an institution completely incapable of fulfilling their role. I don't think we're in that situation. I'm going to shorten my contribution because it's legal, and I have a citation of the paragraphs, what I've been able to get since this morning. So to point IV. the following points (a) and (b) are inserted after points The Commission of Investigation proposes to amend the Code of Criminal Procedure in such a way that the authorisation of the State's Attorney should be withdrawn to order that acts in the matter be carried out by another person serving in criminal proceedings. This decision does not change the police authority itself, but the prosecutor will only exclude from the further processing of the former processor, i.e. the person acting with a specific police authority, a specific police officer, and the official officers of the competent police authority shall then designate another processor following this decision. The prosecutor shall, in particular, proceed under this provision in cases where he finds serious deficiencies in the activities of the former processor or finds that such a person is not a member of the police authority of his instructions or does not carry out the required completion by means of evidence. By this proposal, the commission of inquiry therefore de facto proposes that the prosecutor should not be able to fulfil his responsibility for the laws and the effective conduct of criminal preparatory proceedings. I remember being here, and I don't know what the matter was, he interrogated Minister Chovanec on the activities of law enforcement authorities, and he made a noble reference to Minister Pelikán, who is the prosecutor who is the master of the dispute, and he is the one who actually sets the course. And now you're gonna take that responsibility away from him. It's gonna blow up the existing system. And I don't think he's the Ministry, he's not a legislative department capable of fulfilling that task and processing it. So please, let's keep this in mind when we, like the sněmovna, store something that can't be saved. It can't be stored in really pure common sense. To point IV. the following points (a) and (b) (b) - amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure by releasing § 174 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (c) according to which the prosecutor may personally carry out any individual act and the entire investigation. By doing so, the prosecutor may replace the police authority's activities for both one operation and the full if he decides to carry out the whole investigation. It is not possible to agree with the Commission's proposal because it denies at the conceptual level the division of roles between a prosecutor and a police authority in criminal preparatory proceedings. The State Attorney is the person ultimately responsible for the legal and effective conduct of criminal preparatory proceedings. The police authority is endowed with procedural autonomy, but it is logically limited by the role of the state prosecutor as a person exercising supervision of the legality of the preparatory procedure. It is also a prosecutor who is obliged to prosecute any criminal offences he becomes aware of, unless otherwise provided in the law or declared international treaty. So once again, I'm skipping the next three paragraphs that I managed to copy in Word, so I won't hold you back. But please, I have significant reservations about the quality of the proposed text. If there has been, if I have been called upon to trust the committee of inquiry, to trust professionalism, then I tell you that there are limits where we cannot trust them, when we have to think about them separately within the plenary, we must use our reason and vote according to it. I think what the committee has presented to us is unvoting if we want to act responsibly as legislators. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u89	Thank you. Before we go to the actual notes, we'll have to apologize. The Minister of Health Miloslav Ludvík apologizes today from 17 o'clock for reasons of work, Mr Pavel Antonín apologizes today from 15 o'clock for health reasons, Mr President of the Constitutional Legal Committee and Mr Jeroným Tejc apologizes for the afternoon's work, Mr Gabal apologizes from 14.30 to the end of the day, Mr Petr Adam apologises from 14.30 for health reasons, Mr Antonín is already present, so he withdraws his apology, Mr Martin Plíšek apologises from 14.30 to 16.30, Mr Michal Kučera apologises from 14.30 today for reasons of work, Mr Okamura apologises until the end of the working day, Mrs Markéta Adamová apologises from 16.30 for working reasons, and Mr Vít Kaňkovský apologises from 16.30 to the end of the day of the hearing. Well, that was an apology. With the factual remark of Mr Stanjura, but he is not present, so his factual comment is failing. Mr Blažek is next. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u90	Thank you for the floor. Don't worry about lawyering up. I'm just in response to my colleague Vondráček. We're not in the third reading of a law. The resolutions just say - The House thinks, dear government, we call on you to consider whether, as regards the legality of the activities of the Olomouc prosecutors, it is sufficient that a disciplinary action has been brought against Deputy Minister JUDr. Ištvan Komár. That's all. Well, if we can't do this, then we can't do anything. We just want the government to deal with it. And the government will say, "We think that's enough." That's all. But we have no choice, because the government is responsible for the state's attorney's office. Then who should we write to? Should we write that in Brussels or what? Well, it's the government. There's no other way. And let the government discuss it as they think. And it's true that the government has the tools to do that, yes, the law is well designed, always in cooperation with the Supreme Attorney. It's okay. But maybe the government will come to it -- that's enough for us. You read it from the end. You see the staff there, and you already see some specific names. But maybe the government will say - no, it's enough for us. On their responsibility, however. If I were in that government, I wouldn't take responsibility for Olomouc. You can have it, I'm happy for you. As far as other bills are concerned, it is all about the government submitting something. So the government will write to us, for example, that it can't be done for the reasons Mr. Vondráček said. Now it doesn't matter, I think otherwise, but for God's sake, shouldn't we even ask the government to process something? Then what can we do? This is not the third reading of the law. We can have a substantive discussion whether it makes sense or not. But this House will either have the will to say to itself: we think that this or that should be adjusted or that the government should focus its attention on the Attorney General's office and the legality of his activities. That's all. What's so dramatic, I don't understand.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u91	Thank you. With a point of fact, Mr Hájek, after whom the Minister of Justice. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u92	Mr President, colleagues, I would like to thank Radek Vondráček for actually directing the debate to a material level. And I'm impressed by his words from the point of view that I'm not really a lawyer, and I'm not able to judge at this point whether his arguments that he's given us here are relevant or not. A colleague Blažek responded here through the President - I am also unable to make a relevant assessment. That means, I'd like to ask how to proceed, i.e. I would make a procedural proposal. Before I bring it in, I don't think we're in some kind of time frame. That means six months have passed since the unification of the two police units. The unit's working. It was said that a few people had gone, but he's working. That means, at this point, I don't think we're in time. So I would suggest that we actually discuss, discuss what is proposed here today. On that basis, I propose a procedural proposal that we discontinue this item until Thursday 23 November 11 o'clock. [[From the diaper - November?]] February, thank you. [[Laughs in plenary.]] This is where the winning Februaryes were, and this year it's gonna be 100 years of VSR, so it's kind of in my head...
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u93	Not November, February 23rd. This is a procedural proposal that we will vote on without debate. I'll check you all out first. Please sign up with your voting cards. We will be voting on Mr Hájek's procedural proposal, which proposes to suspend this item by 23 February this year at 11 o'clock. I am opening the vote on this proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's a serial number 310 vote. 108 Members and Members are registered, for 31, against 71. The motion was not accepted. We will therefore continue with the de facto remark made by the Minister of Justice. [[There's noise in the room.]] Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u94	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to thank Mr Vondráček for actually moving to a substantive debate and for almost everything I have said here about the proposed tasks for the government, he has already said for me. As much as my dear colleague Blažek takes it down, it's not that bad.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u95	I'm sorry, Minister. You say very serious things, and the House obviously can't hear you. I'm going to ask my colleagues on the left and right for the silence, and I'm going to ask you to continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u96	Thank you. Please note that it is proposed that the Chamber of Deputies should ask the Government, so I think it requires it to submit within three months a bill containing it, and it is now listed what it contains. It is difficult for the government to respond to this otherwise than to present such a proposal, but how it should do so if it is convinced of its unconstitutionalness and possibly wrongness. And I say here for myself that I agree with everything Mr Vondráček here has said. So I strongly urge you to carefully consider whether to adopt accompanying resolutions, because I think that would indeed be a mistake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u97	Thank you. Mr. Vondráček. His point of fact. Please, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u98	Thank you. He's already told the Minister. I have experience in life that the vast majority of the conflicts between a man and a woman are caused by lack of communication. This also applies in general, interrelationship and even between people, simply the error in communication is the cause of everything. I don't think we have an understanding with Mr Blažek. [[Glee in the hall.]] His commission here is really proposing that within three months a bill be tabled, which must contain, and now a change in the penal code and so on. This means an paragrafo version. Someone has to write it, it has to say it. I understand from his contribution that the government has something to present. Then I guess we have to sit down, what it is, something the government's supposed to present. Maybe we can find a common communication, maybe we can do it in our government before the divorce, as I hear it here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u99	I thank the Vice-President. President Stanjura and his point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u100	In fact, I would have one procedural proposal. I have to say, I've missed him a little. I haven't said that in, like, three years. I would like to propose by procedure that we act today and vote after 21.00, on behalf of six member clubs, except for the ANO movement, to meet exactly the letter of the law, so I will name it: I will take it from left to right, on behalf of the club KSČM, ČSSD, Dawn, KDU-ČSL, ODS and TOP 09. I think your ANO colleagues have yet to learn obstruction. They're not very good at it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u101	I'm sure you're both territorially and procedurally thinking that we should act and vote. This is a proposal that we will vote on without debate, a procedural proposal. I am opening the vote on this procedural proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's serial number 311. 108 Members and Members are registered, for 69, against 30. The motion was accepted. So we will act today after 19 or after 21 o'clock. We can move on. Those were all factual points and priority rights so far. Mr Jiří Štětina has the floor in the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u102	Good evening. Dear Vice-President, gentlemen, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, you may wonder why I am speaking here. I am not one of the Members who understands everything, who speaks to agriculture, health, forestry, the environment, the interior, but I am one of those who use their experiences that they have had in their very long lives. So I have to tell you that I was also a police officer, which is why I have a relationship with the police and, of course, with the Ministry of the Interior very positive. I was even rehabilitated in 1990. I was offered all the benefits that had to do with it, I could have gotten the service back then, I refused everything, I only kept the pension of the Ministry of the Interior because it doesn't matter whether I took it from the Czech Social Security Administration or from the Ministry of the Interior. It doesn't matter. But tonight I can say that I care, and I'm turning a little bit away from what I want to say afterwards. Today, when I see cops being paid their dues, how they're promoted by police officers who will make a career in a few years to the rank of general, then they leave and become politicians with 62 grand and so on, it doesn't leave me calm and of course I'm sorry that I didn't take full rehab at the time, but let's be, man makes mistakes in life. The next thing I want to say, I don't like the atmosphere here tonight. It's disgusting. It's offensive, and I don't think we deserve it, either, who went into politics to prevent corruption, clientelism, and everything that was here in at least 20 years, and that we didn't succeed, is certain one day. So I think that we should also treat the citizens of this country politely and correctly. I'll have my speech structured to three points. One will relate to the history of the reorganisation or reform of the police, and the other will be comments that I will have, and I will not really blame the committee for acting in one way or another because I know what it is to be a member of the committee of inquiry. And when I compare what we were doing on the Opencard investigation committee today, I think it all went perfectly and correctly back then, and today we're kind of where I didn't want to be. Point No 1 - The history of the reform of the Police of the Czech Republic. It's really something that's been going on in the past. Of course, the main reform of the police wanted to do those who have been with the government since 2006. I was elected to the Chamber of Deputies in 2010. I was a member of the Committee on Defence and Security, it was common at the time, I was even a member of the so-called subcommittee on Police Reform, and I would like to mention this a little bit. Of course, I know very well that police reform must be done by the police president and the Home Secretary, none of that. But if I go back to 2011, and that's this paper, I won't read it all, don't worry, I'd tire you out, and then you'd soon drive me out, then I have to say that President Lessy was expelled from the subcommittee. I was there, I saw it, I witnessed it. So it was kind of the first moment that gave me a connection to certain things that happened last year, starting at the end of May. I'll get to that, too. [[17.10 hours]] So there was indeed talk of reform of the police, even in 2011 was a commission led by former President Tomášek of the Police. I've made some pretty strong comments about it, and I sent it to 29th. 11. 2011. That it didn't happen, I think it was just good. Point No 2. It's the actual work of the Police Reorganization Commission. I've been considering whether or not I'm gonna say this for a long time, but don't be mad at me for not naming the person I met who I said I wouldn't say what was going on between us, but I won't. But I was discussing whether - among other things, otherwise we were talking about departmental matters, about police salaries, because I don't like the fact that cops do 150 hours for free, that they have the sums they have, that is, 20 years for honest work, and they have more than 15, 18,000. That's awful compared to when someone leaves the police, they're awarded a multi-thousand-dollar reward, and then the retainer goes up to 62,70 grand, etc. That's immorality, I think we should deal with that, too. But I learned on May 25, 2016 that no reorganisation was planned. I was very surprised that in a week there was suddenly a police reorganization on the table. I stress that not reform, but reorganisation. And I'm asking, and that's a question to the committee now, if the committee of inquiry even knew that the ÚOKFK and ÚOOOZ and others' competence, I would say, the departments in central jurisdiction have their legal standards. I have to quote the order of Police President No. 103 of 2013 - you can find out for yourself who was the police president at the time - in which Article 6 says. Now, let me give you a brief quote, I hate to do this, but I have to. In Article 2, the following paragraph is added: 6 the tasks of the police authorities are determined by the Criminal Police Services and investigations and police departments with national competence a) National Drug Control Services Criminal Police of the Czech Republic, I will not read here, this will probably happen yet. But b) Criminal Police and Investigation are serving the Department of Detection of Corruption and Financial Crime. It shall deal with and have the task of investigating and investigating intentional offences for which the High Prosecutor is responsible, with the exception of offences referred to in Part Two, etc. 1.2. For crimes which he reveals by his own investigation, unless he decides to transfer them according to local and substantive jurisdiction to another police authority, or which he/she takes upon the decision of the Director of the Unit, following the prior agreement of the competent police authority, or which has been ordered by a decision of the superior chief executive or of the state representative. Here I have to mention and gloss a little bit - we cannot at all exclude from this procedure, which is given by really legal and legal standards any intervention of the state prosecutor, whether local, regional or supreme. In point (c) - I'm not going to read any more points, but I'm going to ask if the committee examined whether it was necessary to do this reorganisation. In point (c), that the Organized Crime Detection Unit, the Criminal Police Services and the investigation is therefore engaged in investigations, investigations and investigations for the 1.1th crime of organised criminal groups or particularly serious organised crimes in the field of violent acts, extortion and subsequent management systems, used against life, health or property, illicit trafficking in arms, explosives, military material, chemical, biological, radioactive, other highly dangerous substances and commodities, illegal migration of human trafficking, theft of motor vehicles, terrorism, extremism, currency and means of payment and terrorist financing. Second, investigation, investigation, investigation of crimes committed in the form of cyber-attacks, and then it is interesting for the third investigation, investigation, investigation of criminal offences which it reveals by its own investigation, unless it decides to transfer them according to local and substantive jurisdiction to another police authority, will take over 3.2. on the basis of the decision of the Director of the department after prior approval by the competent police authority or the chief of staff or the prosecutor. So this is the order of Police President No. 103, 2013. Of course, I was very surprised when, during the week, it suddenly occurred that there was a police reorganization on the table. So I'm asking, and of course, with all seriousness and humility, because I know that the work on the committee is not at all simple, both in time and in law, and I think it's just psychologically, so I wouldn't even lower any theatrical performances here, as someone asks a question, answering something - it's beneath me. On this point, I must say that I also liked the speech of the Minister of Justice, and I would judge it both in artistic terms and in material terms by the number one. I think he just told us and clearly. So that's the point, and I'd just like to ask if the committee knew, and if it was judging the reorganisation that was set in motion this way very quickly. And one last thing. If you remember when we were discussing things with the police - now I don't know exactly if it was before the holidays, but maybe it was before the holidays, or if it was after the holidays - I had a very short speech where I mentioned this regulation, but I just quoted it, I also mentioned that the police reform must therefore be done by the police president and the Home Secretary, but then I expressed concern. And the fear was simple and simple. You all know very well how the economic crime investigation worked until 2010. Either it ended up at the police station where the regulation was made, it was a regulation, so it was an internal act of procedure and it was called Guidance No. 121 Director of the Corruption and Financial Crime Detection Unit of the Criminal Police Services and Investigation of 10 August 2009, in which Article 4 clearly states: the acquisition of knowledge from an interest environment. An authorised police officer shall inform his direct superior or, in the absence of his/her respective chief of police, prior to the commencement of the operational search activity in the form of obtaining knowledge from the interest environment. Coordinators were created for this. Coincidentally, the coordinators were somehow removed after the cancellation of this order and they got - one needed at Homolce, one at the Czech Post office, etc. So it's interesting where these people, of course, work. If the supervisor or coordinator didn't agree, there was no investigation. [[17.20 hours]] When the case happened to be so big, it went to the prosecutor's office, where some of the prosecutors were again, and here I could appeal to our Opencard committee, which was the first to investigate something - we weren't laughing at how I could sense it from some discussion paper - so it stopped at the prosecutor's office. But significant economic cases were simply not investigated. So I could talk here, and I don't want to talk anymore, because I know how long I've been waiting to get to the microphone, and I almost thought he wouldn't get to it, so I'd like to express my concern, and I hope it doesn't happen, if by any chance this so-called. The reorganisation, which I do not believe, because it was not even discussed in the Defence Committee - the Committee on Security, is already separated - was not discussed in Parliament that it had to be done so quickly. And now my concern is why. I filed a criminal complaint in 2011 to finance the air rescue service. In the first stage, accusations were made. The state's attorney was replaced, in 2015, it was decreed that the offence was committed in the amount of 880 million, but it was suspended, which was a mistake, so the second prosecutor ordered not the annulment, but the continuation of the investigation, and by the end of 2016, I received a statement from the new department - what's its name? National headquarters - NZO... I don't know exactly anymore, so forgive me for delaying the crime. I, of course, intersected the Minister. Of course, the Minister answered me perfectly in accordance with the law that this is the case, and I promise him here that I will no longer annoy him on this matter, but I am not satisfied. And I am afraid that this situation will happen because there are many crimes that have not been investigated, because there was no will for us to happen to get into high politics. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u103	Thank you, honourable Member. Another duly signed up is Mrs Jana Lorencová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u104	Thank you, Mr President. My colleagues and colleagues, apart from being a Member, I am also originally a journalist. It stays in you somehow. It's not that you were a journalist once, and then you weren't. Of course, during the years in which I was a journalist, I received a lot of information, and it is not possible to work with them just because, in the meantime, years have passed and a lot of things are swept under the carpet. I know North Moravia, I know Olomoucko, I know the area where so called. Vidkun case. I even know some of the actors personally. If the police hadn't had good cops in their ranks, but also bad guys, we wouldn't have to deal with this case that we're dealing with today. I consider it my duty to declare at this point that I do not want to deal with the extent to which the conclusion of the commission of inquiry is relevant. As has been said many times, what is not proven does not mean that it has not happened. But I refuse to accept the conclusion of the commission of inquiry as a thunderous alibiism for everything that has not just been proven. What hasn't been proven, but could have happened. The committee of inquiry is not an arbiter who decides whether to blame or not, but it is an authority that seeks to find out something, to put it into context and then introduce us to the Members. Today, he's giving us the conclusion that he's learned something and that he may not have been able to find out something. And that's it. Of course, that can be agreed with. But what else? Colleagues often lead monologues here about how to behave, what they can or cannot afford atp. I think I can afford enough right now, but I stand by my claim. The Commission for some reason, it's probably completely okay, it doesn't have the competence of a police authority. I must agree with that, of course, that's true. But I suppose he might be concerned, and maybe some of the members of the committee might have been suspicious when they saw movements that began to happen in the ranks of police officers and in the top authorities of the police. I'm not going to name all of them, but there were a lot of them, those movements, just at the time, so-called. Vidkun's case broke out, during the time of the search of desks and offices, there were really several movements in the police. I assume that the commission of inquiry had competence and was interested in who these movements were. I'm gonna stop by one, two, maybe three names. One of them is Milan Pospíšek. I don't know if he's ever been lost from the police force before the commission of inquiry, so it's possible that the committee hasn't had a chance to question him at all. But I'll stop by to see who Milan Pospíšek is. It's about the former Director of the Office of the Director of Criminal Police and the investigation. So far, it has never been said how he achieved his relatively intriguing police career. Those are the facts. No speculation, just facts. And we're going to remember them now because it's important with respect to all of these unproven phenomena. This is former police officer Milan Pospíšek, who started in Šumperk as a subordinate - I apologize for bringing up my old case again - one of the biggest traders with untaxed diesel, alias LTO Vratislav Kutal. Vratislav Kutal was a police officer, chief of economic crime in Šumperk district. If I am properly informed, and I believe so, this Mr. Milan Pospíšek was his subordinate. I'm gonna try to cut it short, too, and I hope I can make a lot of cutbacks on what I'm ready to do. This Mr Pospíšek actually left the police the next day after the IOOZ searched his desk. He's gone for reasons we can only speculate about. Maybe just so he can still get a retainer - or whatever it's called, yes, retired. Vratislav Kutal, his former boss, who ended up with the police at the end of 1993, is still in the service. These are rewards - these are penalties for a police officer committing such a serious crime as dealing with untaxed diesel. To this day, this police officer, apart from billions, and in his case at least one billion, is serving the police. If there's still untaxed money in circulation, if there's dirty money in circulation, and that's nothing but dirty money, we can't expect anything to change. I don't think we can. I'd like to thank decent policemen from this place, despite everything we've heard here. I would like to thank Mr Šlachta, who I do not know personally, who I saw once in my life when he spoke to the GIBS Board. I don't know him personally, but I'd like to thank him for the bravery he's shown so far. I would like to thank all decent prosecutors for the work they have done for the benefit of this company. And thank you, colleagues, for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u105	Thank you, Mrs Lorencová. With priority rights - sorry. One more point of fact, Vice-President Blažek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u106	Thank you. It's just a brief reaction. You see, my colleague, through you, Mr Pospíšek's name fell on that committee. The problem is that the subject of this commission is not the correction of the whole world and all the bad things that have been in the police for the last few years. And we didn't like to do things like texting, but we didn't like it. because she became part of the government crisis. It was impossible for us to deal with everything that was right or wrong in the police. First, the organ was not established, and second, it is not humanly possible. So, yes, the name came up. It didn't exactly look positive, that's true. But as far as the subject of our activity is concerned, that name wasn't relevant to us talking about it anymore. And as far as I know, he was probably arrested then, and I don't think he's even on the force. But I remember that vaguely now. That's why his place isn't there. We'd be dealing with everything, and we can't.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u107	Thank you. President Kalousek, with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u108	Thank you for the floor. Excuse me, I wouldn't dare respond to Mrs Lorencová alone. But she repeated something that I have heard several times in that discussion from ANO representatives, namely the sentence that the fact that it has not yet been proven does not mean that it has not happened at all. That's what Mr. Chalupa said. That's what I get. This is about life. But the Minister of Justice said so too, in this spirit he spoke. Colleagues, please, do you realize what you're saying? It hasn't been proven, but that doesn't mean it didn't happen. Then we'll continue to live in the fact that it happened. I'll give you an example. I hope my colleague Faltýnek isn't offended. He's a brave man, so I'm gonna give you an absurd example on purpose. I will simply declare with the full weight of my personality that my colleague Faltýnek raped a minor dachshund, which, of course, will harm him in public because people don't like politicians, but they like puppies. And I'm gonna say it so vehemently and in all the newspapers, and I'm gonna even put the whole republic in it and do part of the election campaign. And I'm gonna say, "Faltýnek girl raped a teenage dachshund." I'll be logically asked to just prove that, especially when I leaned on him for a political election campaign. I'm gonna say, well, I can't prove it, but just because I can't prove it doesn't mean it didn't happen, because underage dachshunds are a lot, and it's coming out of Faltýnek's eyes. And I'll keep saying it. And when I'm asked to apologize for this dirty rumor, because if I actually said it seriously, it would be a completely rude slander, if I were asked for an apology, I'd say, "Why would I apologize?" Just because I can't prove it doesn't mean it didn't happen. That's the way you argue. I'm begging you to pull yourself together. If someone was accused and, therefore, if the police president was blamed for some dishonest act and the Home Secretary was blamed, it was either proven that something like this had happened or it didn't happen. It is not possible to blame someone, to touch his honor, reputation, good name in a way that is able to destroy his career, and then instead of apologizing to say, I'm sorry, but just because it hasn't been proven doesn't mean it hasn't happened. I'm simply protesting this kind of argument. If we accept him, we don't live in a civilized and legal state.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u109	Thank you, Prime Minister. Four factual points. Mr Chalupa, Mr Blažek, Mr Hájek, Mr Komárek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u110	Thank you for the floor. To all those who are worried about me, I assure you, I'm not really worried about my life. Thank you. As for the... The message is very clear. Just put it on the table and leave it there. There's an interpretation here, and we didn't start it. That we were the ones who used it somehow, this, this. Read the message and there it really... I don't know, it's a philosophical debate, I guess. If there is a need, and now an estimate, seven coincidences that take place within three weeks, will be reorganized in all aspects or non-compliance with various things etc., as I can assume as a politician that these things are not right. That they didn't go well. As a member of the committee of inquiry, I can't do this because I have other boundaries there, and I have to act as a member of the committee of inquiry that says I have verified this, and I haven't verified this. But as a politician who knows this and who has heard a lot of things, I say that the reorganisation did not go the way it should and was abused by another political party to prevent certain things. And that's what I can say. And what doesn't prove, because I don't have the evidence... Why didn't you give us... In the United States, see how the investigation committee works and how we did. I don't want to attack this place. But what did we have at our disposal? We didn't have any investigators, no forensics, no forensics studio, no forensics, nothing. We've been working with what we have. And if there was an ex-cop and one lawyer, like you want these guys to make a long case? You're mistaken. And I, as a politician, say that what happened was wrong. And it's their fault!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u111	There. With a factual remark, Mr Blažek. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u112	It's just, one fix. She's not about the House. Mr. Pospíšek's name has something to do with the arrest. It was a little different, then I realized. Someone was arrested in his office, some cop. So I don't spread any news here, and I apologize to him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u113	Mr Hájek and his factual point. Please, Mr. Ambassador. After that, Mr. Komárek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u114	Mr President, when I was discussing with my miners, I had to explain it to them in some way, in some way, in order to understand. And my colleague Kalousek here, through Mr President, recorded me. So, my miners, in the House, we set up an investigation group, or a commission that solves suspicions, that Mr. Kalousek drinks. The investigation committee calls witnesses, and one witness says, "Mr. Kalousek appeared to me to be staggering." The second witness comes in, yes, staggering, but I'm sure that's what he gets from being overworked. The other will say: I have seen, or I have smelled of Mr. Kalousek the scent of plums. The second comes: yes, it's natural, he loves plum compote. So the Commission will conclude by saying: Unfortunately, we did not have the opportunity to give Mr Kalousek a blow because that was not the mandate of our commission. So we had the right only to obtain information from witnesses. Unfortunately, they didn't confirm, and so our committee said yes, Mr Kalousek probably doesn't drink it. That's probably how my miners would understand what tools the committee had in the negotiations. That's it. That's it. That's it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u115	That's it. Mr Komárek and his point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u116	I already feel like an old humorist at home. My colleague Kalousek said "I will set an absurd example" and went on to "I will declare with the full weight of my personality." He didn't have to go any further. He set an absurd example. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u117	Thank you. That was the last point of fact so far. Mr Schwarz and his proper application. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u118	Good evening or early evening, Mr. Vice-President. It doesn't seem funny or humorous to me today. I'm having a hard time talking to you, if you're even interested, because we're all tired. I can see it. Someone's having fun, somebody's making fun of it. I'd just like to remind you of a few things, and I want to be specific. And I'm not gonna philosophize here because I saw Mr. Vice President as a lawyer, how he reacted, and more lawyers, how he reacted when someone described whether or not the deed was proven. Whether there is evidence or not. [[17.40 hours]] I beg you, to do this, you need to read the Penal Code, the Criminal Code, and find the old one where things are stored, how they are stored, if the deed has happened. And to describe the rape of a dachshund, please don't be mad, that's pathetic. It's just for me - it's sad in the Chamber of Deputies. It's just a lawyer thing, and they should tell each other. I'd just like to remind you of the following. Mr Korte, through you, Mr Vice-President, he's no longer here, but he approached me today with the fact that someone from YES started and called a committee. Yes, it was me. I was the vice-chairman of the Security Committee when I was approached by high-ranking police officers. And I won't change my mind. I'd do it again. Yes, I wanted to call a committee, and there was only supposed to be a hearing on that committee, ask the police on the committee in the presence of the members, you who are on the Security Committee to tell us what they want. If they couldn't tell us straight and in the media, let them tell us right on the committee. I wasn't allowed to. You see, and then it all started. It was I who called the committee as Vice-President, not against the law. In connection with the law, which many of you sitting here have approved or supported the Rules of Procedure or held up according to it. I've only used yours, everyone who's been here longer than me, your Rules of Procedure, and I've done it. I don't regret it. I wasn't allowed to hear it, and then it came together, and all the wheels started. Now what I'd like to compare. What bothers me. I don't want to criticize the work of the investigation committee. It, you know, sitting in the evenings, interrogating, you saw for yourself how it bothers some, the way they look at each other, they're colleagues, they're sitting together. It's not easy to be a House policeman, please, I call it that. But what bothers me and surprises me a little bit. You know, when we were doing Opencard, I didn't have the courage to join this committee. My colleague Chalupa had. So I thought it would work in the same direction, that the committee would investigate something, give a final report, and the final report would show up with measures, such as the criminal report, etc. I was a little surprised without wanting to stand up for Minister Pelikán's department, a resolution directed only at the Justice Department. Because when you read the report carefully, it is clearly written, including through Vice-President Blažek, the chairman of the Commission said that the police - and it ended up with the Deputy General Laube, who is no longer a policeman today, we heard where he is today, but that is not important, he probably worked too quickly and unprofessionally and rushed the reorganisation. But there is no longer a measure for the Ministry of the Interior to prevent further possible such actions by the Deputys of the Ministry of the Interior from becoming. That's what's missing. So it's interesting that there's a measure regarding the state's attorney's office. I'm sorry, purely professionally, not politically. Because there should also be a measure to the inside of the police, beware, beware, it needs to be investigated even on this line. [[part of the incomprehensible]] Well, the criminal charges, I understand, I guess they have a reason. And that's-- and now I'm going to do it. Why, then, do some people think: one lady has spoken, or there is a little truth in every racket, is there? Because if they're moving around a little bit, at least a little bit like me, this will stop them from being there's no measure towards the inside, but there's a measure for prosecutors, and the same prosecutors whose names have been made here, who in the past have had something to do with politics, political investigations, etc. And at that moment, I have just the possible suspicion that the commission didn't just disprove me with the job. That's why I don't like the resolution. I will take note of this report, because the committee who knows it really had only the limits on this particular matter. But today I've heard from all of you sitting here, from everyone and here things that didn't have anything to do with the committee. [[The Member shall turn towards the government benches and the chair table]] Mr Blažek read it, I understand. I would be willing to take note of the report, but without, please, personally as a person, without the resolutions, because I consider these resolutions to be intended in view of what I have said. There are some resolutions missing, so I think that these resolutions, the conclusions, whatever they are, everyone has their opinion on it, I say only mine, I miss the resolution just because (?) Deputy Police President General Laube, because this is where it fell. It only took a second, but it fell here that he worked very quickly and that's a shame. And you know what I miss, and I'm not going to forgive myself for saying that as a man without a past here in the House, but a naive MP, after today a naive MP? That if there's such a big thing going on inside, which is a reorganisation, if there's such a big thing going on in justice, something with prisons, with Madam Secretary, anything, I always thought that at least those government MPs knew something about it, ministers would talk about it so that it didn't happen so that we didn't have to swear here, say who did what, that somebody caught a dachshund. [[Member turns to the view of Minister Šlechtová]] That they're just going to discuss it, they're going to say it the way it's going on in an ordinary village, when the mayor or the deputy mayor wants to do something for the citizens, so at least he's going to discuss it with the political partner in charge of the community. That's why I just hate it, and I think he was the trigger for non-communication. And our colleague, Vice-President Vondráček, spoke to us about it. So this is how I want to sum it up. I'd like to ask you not to fight anymore, because it's not going anywhere. You remind me of things that some laugh about, but it's not funny. It's all sad, please. Thank you for hearing me, some of you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u119	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Blažek, then Mrs Černochová, both factual points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u120	I'll just respond. Thank you for being aggressive. Perhaps so - I will read again the name of the commission of inquiry: to examine the activities of the Police Presidium and so on and the High Prosecutor's Office in Olomouc. When it comes to investigating law enforcement agencies, I've said that a couple of times today, well, they've put so much on there, they're not really worried about whether or not there was some kind of criminal activity. Adding anything to that would be completely extra from that committee, and I think that's enough. As far as the Olomouc State's Attorney's office is concerned, there are just two failures. We don't write much about one of them here, but I just remind you that even the Attorney General sent a letter to Mr. Ištvan about the oversight of the famous text and the investigation of GIBS, in which he called on him to deal with it in some way, that there was also a mistake. As far as staff is concerned, I mean, if I'm reading these resolutions well, there's no staff here as far as Olomouc is concerned. Neither. And it's not even called that the government has to do something staffingly. It's just being told to consider - and I'm already repeating, if the government doesn't do it, it takes responsibility for how it does the Olomouc State Prosecutor's office. I say it again, I wish it to her, I completely understand that it's media popular today, but I wouldn't take responsibility for them. And that's everyone's right to take it in any way. And the most important thing is - and I don't want to talk to the deaf. After all, the government crisis broke out here, and they were telling the files what they had there, and they got caught up in the government crisis. Did you see the Prague Attorney General do that? Not half a sentence. Will the Attorney General do that? Not half a sentence. They do, but the laws apply to both the Prague Pražák and the Olomoučák ones. And that's my point, and not just me, but I think the whole committee. And just let it go? You can, but I don't think it would be right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u121	Thank you. Mrs Černochová and her factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u122	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Have a good night. I'd like to respond to what my colleague Schwarz has said. It's nice to hear, but the reality that is being realized here in this parliamentary term of the YES movement is, unfortunately, completely different from the words of Mr Schwarz. I would like to remind you, because we may have a short memory, or my colleague Schwarz has a short memory, one personal change that has been made by your movement, and where the consequences of this personnel change have been recovered by the Justice Department to this day. It is an appeal, an unlawful appeal by the Director of the Prison Service of General Dohnal, when your Minister Válková, without consulting anyone in the government, has clearly been said by the Prime Minister, has called off General Dohnal as Director of the Prison Service without any reason. She replaced him with the deputy or director of one of the prisons by Mr. Ondrášek, and then, when it took place and the trial took place, he had to get Mr. General Dohnal in his position, and I'm glad for that, Minister of Justice Pelikán returned. So please, really take your word for it when you're criticizing someone here that they don't consult you on personnel changes when your government secretary, a member of your movement, didn't do it in such a serious matter as the General Director of the Prison Service.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u123	Thank you. Mr Komárek and his point of order. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u124	Thank you. We got into prison from the police debate, which is quite logical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u125	Yeah, that's it? Oh, thank you. [[Fun in the hall.]] Mr Blažek and his point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u126	Once again, I forgot to say something about Mr Schwarz. He's right that there are certain things that should be dealt with in the Department of the Interior, and that's at least two. An interpretation of superiority, submission, but it's in those laws. The problem is that, for example, when it comes to communicating information, and that is what you have in that report, there is a completely different interpretation of these sections of the Attorney General and a completely different interpretation we have received from the Police Presidium. And now it is very difficult to formulate a resolution. It's not about changing the law. The law is, I would say, quite all right on this matter, but two interpretations of two quite significant high institutions differ. And the YES movement, if it has these constructive proposals, including Mr Schwarz, I would call for - for there is nothing to prevent you from adding a resolution to this. We've been sitting here all day. And you said we'd call on the government to modify this or that in the interior department. Why not, I won't fight it if it's a reasonable suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u127	Mr Štětina and his factual point. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u128	Thank you again. I will not speak for long at all, but dear colleagues and colleagues. We voted after 9:00. What we're dealing with here, other things that have nothing to do with it, so let's not worry about them and let's really reorganize the police of the Czech Republic here, and that's all. The rest of what he is is a useless speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u129	Thank you. And now duly signed up Mr Matěj Fichtner. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u130	Thank you for the floor. I'll be really material. I used that broad debate to make a detailed study of the report. I would like to explain some things, if possible, from President Blažek. It seems to me that the report is somewhat internally contradictory, because it is insufficiently devoted to all these areas. After all, Mr. Schwarz has already done this. One thing, when we go into detail, I would like to know, when I quote the report: "Some of the facts stated in the GIBS resolution on delaying things were wrong, no warning SMS was sent to David Tesařík from the 312 end phone number..." and so on. Data on the direction of communication were erroneously evaluated by the GIBS member of the file processor Milan Vaculík. He accepted it himself before the committee of inquiry. On the basis of the evidence available to the Commission of inquiry, it cannot be demonstrated that it acted intentionally, but it cannot be excluded that it acted negligently and therefore the Commission decided to file a criminal report. The Supreme Prosecutor in Olomouc has failed as a supervisory authority in this, as he also overlooked the error. In addition, a minimum careless approach has allowed the erroneous resolution and its other interpretations to become part of the public space. There. As far as the leak of the resolution itself is concerned, this has been more or less discussed here. This resolution is available on the website of the National Fund against Corruption. However, if we look at the resolution, we will find that GIBS here, as a police authority, actually received a complaint from the ÚOKFK, which sounded just like some warning text was supposed to come to Mr David Tesařík's phone. Based on this, he started investigating. And the GIBS police authority itself states, in the justification of the order to postpone the matter, that David Tesařík, David Tesařík, from the analysis carried out by the mobile phone of the local number and so on, in which the report was detected, which was sent to the local number of the second one, i.e. with an endgame of 312, and so on, continues the reasoning. That means, the GIBS investigator himself states in his document that the message was sent from David Tesařík's cell phone, not the cell phone. This means that what is written here in the final report of the commission of inquiry, data on the direction of communication misjudged by a member of the GIBS, so it is somewhat contrary to the very GIBS resolution itself. That's the first thing. And the second thing I absolutely don't understand is why the commission is filing criminal charges against the investigator. That's nonsense. Even if that were the case, first of all, I don't think it is, but even if it were the case, in that resolution on delaying the matter, do you please explain to me how he committed a crime by going over his head and writing something else? How did the crime happen? What's the content of the crime? Where's the deed? I really don't understand. Well, that's one thing. Second thing. The investigating committee dealt with the leaks from the investigation file, including the leak of this resolution, and on the basis of that and on the basis that the Supreme Prosecutor's Office, or his officials, stated that they would be interrogating the police president, so, on that basis, he proposes, say, a draft part of the resolution of the commission of inquiry, that the government, within its constitutional responsibility for the state prosecutor's activities, should consider whether the disciplinary action brought is sufficient or whether further measures, including personnel, are not necessary. So the commission of inquiry has identified some error, some potential error, and on that basis, it asks or proposes that the Chamber of Deputies call on the government to take action within the system of prosecutors. That is nice, but the report is somewhat unbalanced because it also contains the following text: Given the nature of the activity of the two merged departments and taking into account the persons and the environment affected by the organizational change, it can be noted that this was not a minor change. I mean, the reorganization. Its preparation was greatly underestimated by Zdeněk Laube and Tomáš Tuhý and was under-negotiated with the entities concerned. This testifies to the lack of management by former Deputy Police President Zdeněk Laube. Well, that's nice, but if we identify any shortcomings here at the High Prosecutor's Office in Olomouc, and we propose a resolution that should call on the government to do something, I do not understand why there is no similar motion for a resolution, which, therefore, the commission of inquiry, or then the Chamber of Deputies will call on the government to deal with, say, including personnel, if I go into detail, to address the police President of Tuhý. Because the commission of inquiry says that the preparation of the reorganisation was greatly underestimated by Zdeněk Laube and Tomáš Tuhý. And Tomáš Tuhý is not at all concerned with the report of the commission of inquiry in the sense that there should be some personnel measures. That is what I would like to hear from the President of the Commission of Investigation, apparently, about how he will respond to the arguments that I have made on these individual points. As for the draft part, I think it is appropriate to suggest that the Chamber of Deputies should only take note of the report, i.e. only under item one, and that it no longer accepts those points two, three and four. Now, I don't know if I can suggest this in the general debate...
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u131	Sorry, you can split the vote, but whether or not it accepts those points will be decided by the Chamber of Deputies by majority vote. You can only divide them, vote separately on item one, item two, item three, item four. Nothing more, nothing less.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u132	In that case, I would like to propose a separate vote. [[The President: I am sure you will be satisfied with this.]] Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u133	Thank you. Mr Ondráček and his point of view. After him, President Blažek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u134	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. At my first performance, I said I'd rather not be here to preserve my health. I came here twice. And what my colleague has just done, I'm sorry, but you can't be serious, through the President. . [[Yes, through me.]] I'm telling it through you. [[18.00 hours]] If a fellow Member needs a Member, let him look into the Criminal Code, there are crimes of official persons in it. And there is a criminal offence under Section 330 of the Criminal Code, obstruction of the task of an official person out of negligence. And that's exactly the crime that a particular inspector of the Security Council Inspector could have committed, because if he's so stupid, and forgive me for not knowing what in and what out is, what's outgoing and what's an incoming text message, what's he doing in grade 9 with the General Security Council Inspector? [[with emphasis on:]] If a member of the county did it, they'd take him off his uniform! He's been promoted for this, and he's the head of the Colonel's exhibit today. Do you put such people in office? Don't be mad at me, but this guy has nothing to do with the Security Corps, and with the Security Corps' General Inspectorate, if he can't judge what an incoming and outgoing SMS is, and he's been investigating someone for a year and a half, trying to degenerate a specific person. What we have learned in the context of the investigation is even more serious, but it is not the subject of what I would like to talk about right now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u135	Good evening, honourable Members. We will continue, with a factual remark from Mr Pavel Blažek, who is registered. Mr. Ludvík Hovorka will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u136	Thank you for the floor. Responses to colleague Fichtner. First of all, when it comes to inside personnel, Mr. Laube has already figured it out for himself, so there's nothing to deal with. As far as the comparison between Olomouc and the Police Presidium is concerned, I am merely reminding you that in this affair called the government crisis against one of the senior officials, a disciplinary action has already been brought. The second prosecutor obviously tampered with the file as he shouldn't have, so we filed a criminal complaint. Then there's bad surveillance in this thing again, so it doesn't add up. While with Mr. Police President, I don't know that your government, not mine, has been dealing with it somehow and has been running some disciplinary proceedings or something. So that's an objective fact. Then I don't even know what else I wanted to tell you, maybe I'll remember. Yes - as far as the GIBS resolution is concerned, I don't know where you got it, but if you have it from the Internet, there has been a completely different resolution through the boys from Olomouc, which has been corrected in various ways, so that we can understand each other. There was no original in the foundation. And so when we - that amused me especially - at the most transparent foundation against corruption, when they were to issue the resolution, as it was published, they wrote that they destroyed it. That means there's no telling who made it and when. And if you are based on this resolution, do not come out of it because it is not the case. And for another, if you could see the resolution, there's two or three different descriptions of the text message, the decision is crazy, and no one can stand up for it. The disaster is that it has been in the file for a long time and has unfortunately become part of this government crisis without the same prosecutors being so kind as to see what they're saying. Unfortunately, I must have Mr. Komárek here. [[unintelligible]] If they did it right, they'd find out. She must have figured that out, which is a catastrophic situation, the House investigation committee. Which is unbelievable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u137	I thank Mr Blažek for his time on the point of fact. We will continue with the de facto remarks made by Mr Ludvík Hovorka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u138	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues, Mr Vice-President, I am impressed by this report - nothing special has happened during my service. But after all, when reading, I consider page No. 3 and there three paragraphs: The directors of the departments concerned were informed of the organisational change in the second half of May 2016. There was no record of introductions. At the end of May 2016, the representatives of the State Attorney General were not familiar with it until the end of May 2016, i.e. just before sending the reporter to the Home Secretary. It was sent to 31. 5. 2016. The decision of Tuhý and Laube to merge both departments under a unified leadership was presented as final and non-changing. The discussion of the specific effects of organisational change on the communication between NCOZ and prosecutors and the continuity of ongoing criminal proceedings only started after the organizational change was mediated. Conceptual or strategic materials processed under the responsibility of the current Police President shall not be dealt with or mentioned by the merging of units with national competence. The representatives of the Police Presidium did not have any actual and detailed analyses or statistics to support the reasons presented by them in connection with the draft organisational change. Representatives of the Police Presidium refer to strategic and conceptual materials from previous years, which date back to 1993, as mentioned in the 2007 materials submitted to the Commission of Investigation. These documents refer in various variants to the possibility of merging whole republical units. The arguments for the organizational change examined are essentially taken from these documents. Not in all materials, however, the merger of services with the whole republic was considered an appropriate solution. This is very important to me, and I believe that whatever this resolution is adopted in any form, I think -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u139	Mr. Ambassador, you've run out of time to make a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u140	Yes. That the citizens will evaluate the reform quite clearly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u141	This was the last speech in the general debate. And since I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. So at this point, we can approach the final words. Mr Blažek's final word as President of the Commission of Investigation. Is he interested?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u142	I'm sorry now, but I have different opinions from the matadors about the resolutions that are being proposed, so I would...
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u143	No, we have to do that in a detailed debate that I will open. I am simply asking because the general debate has ended, which I have ended, and it is my duty to give you a chance to take the final decision, possibly by the rapporteur, to make a statement. If you don't want to, you don't have to express yourself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u144	I say my favorite - how important it is to have Filip. Thank you for your advice, and I don't have the final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u145	Thank you. We can therefore proceed to the debate in detail. President of the Chamber of Deputies Jan Hamáček reporting. Please, Mr President, you have the floor in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u146	Thank you. As I have announced, I propose a resolution in a detailed debate: the Chamber of Deputies asks - calls. The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Finance Minister Andrej Babiš to apologize for his remarks to the Commission of Investigation of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u147	Thank you. The rapporteur noted that. I will therefore now invite Mr Pavel Blažek to present the motion for a resolution prepared by the committee of inquiry. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u148	Thank you for the floor. I just refer - I have read all the motions for resolutions in the morning in my report, or I am now fully referring to them, and I propose that each resolution be voted separately, that is, I, II, III, I think Roman now, IV separately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u149	Yes, thank you. Now, Mr Bartošek and Vice-President, with his proposal for a detailed debate. Please, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u150	Thank you. My proposal responds to the GIBS report and the handling of wiretaps within individual cases, which means that this report shows that it would be good for the wiretaps that are being ordered to be subsequently analysed and further processed. That is, the motion for my resolution, which I will read: The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government to ensure a consistent application of Paragraph 88 (2) of the Rules of Procedure by way of the Minister of Justice. For example, in the form of a binding order or methodological instruction, in relation to the assessment of the relevance of wiretaps and records of telecommunications traffic, etc. So many texts of the accompanying resolution, more or less the resolution does not change any law, merely calls on the Minister of Justice to methodically adjust how the wiretap will be handled and analysed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u151	Thank you. Even Mr Schwarz for a detailed debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u152	Mr Vice-President, I have listened to the proposal from my fellow Vice-President of the House, and I understand what he meant to say, probably the Commission has found that the wiretap which was duly authorised by the court and obtained was not worked as it should, that is, not evaluated in detail, so that it can be used at any time. Then I'd give him such a suggestion that I think this call about what's going on under the 88 Penal Code, the former 88, is more for the Home Secretary, because he's in charge of the police. The police are doing the wiretap, and the D.A.'s keeping an eye on it. So, as far as he's concerned, the task should be, the resolution directed to the Minister of the Interior rather than to the Minister of Justice. I believe so, but that's his business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u153	Yes. Mr Daniel Korte, then Mr Blažek. I ask the House for peace! We are talking about resolutions, individual proposals are tabled, and I ask you to listen to them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u154	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not here as a former member of the investigation committee right now, but as a member of the GIBS Control Committee and a member and chairman of the wiretap committee. In the context of the proposed resolution, we consider that certain resolutions should be deleted from the Criminal Code, that strict wiretapping conditions, based on Section 88 of the Criminal Code, should be harmonised, subject to the conditions of wiretapping, spatial wiretapping, etc., which are based on § 158d. While, in the first case, these wiretappings are ordered by the court pursuant to § 88, in the second case § 158d only the approval of the prosecutor is subject to. And we believe that based on the experience we have gained, this should be united. That even actions under § 158d should be subject to a court order. I would therefore like to read the resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic asks the Government to submit a draft law to it within three months, which will contain amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure so as to: 1. the authorisation of the State Attorney has been granted to the police authority to authorise the monitoring of persons in whom sound records are to be made pursuant to Section 158d of the Criminal Code, and that that authority should be given newly exclusively to the court; 2. a functional system of information and recording of listening persons has been properly ensured in cases where the police authority has used an operational search device to track persons and things incessantly and has not used the information thus obtained in the context of criminal proceedings, respectively. where the information found did not lead to the initiation of a criminal prosecution in order to ensure that such information was subsequently disposed of.'; This is how I read the resolution. Only to that point d, to point 2, I say that this is brought into line with § 88 para. 8.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u155	I understand that this is not an alternative to point 4a, b, but it is another proposal that will be voted separately. Please, Vice-President, your words.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u156	Thank you for the floor. Thank you for Mr Schwarz's comment, it was appropriate. This means adjusting the beginning of the motion for a resolution: the Chamber of Deputies asks the Government to ensure a consistent application of Section 88, etc., as I have read. That means I'm releasing the Minister of Justice, and the Chamber of Deputies is asking for a government. Thank you for this reminder.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u157	Thank you, Mr President, Vice-President Bartošek. I'm asking who else to discuss in detail. I can end the debate in detail if no one is reporting - but President Pavel Kováčik has the right of priority. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u158	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, all this time here this afternoon, it sounds like what's going on here. We don't like a lot of that. But we have the right to do that just like any of you, colleagues and colleagues, has the right to a different approach. However, if the Commission has been doing its work here for weeks and months, and I am prepared to appreciate it, and I am repeatedly saying it here, then I do not quite understand what is being proposed here as a resolution beyond that committee. All members of the committee of inquiry voted in favour of that conclusion, for the report, and therefore for the motion for a resolution. And the whole situation here seems to me that, well, the committee is done, the investigation is over, forget it, we're doing it again. The KSČM Members' Club wants to discuss a little in these resolutions. For example, we support the need for one member of the government coalition, Vice-President of the Government, to apologize for what we have here at the address of Parliament's established commission of inquiry, which we quite like. But we need to assess the rest. I'm asking for a quarter hour, sorry 20 minutes break for the KSČM club meeting. If we receive it, please, the KSČM parliamentary club to arrive immediately at the club's premises without undue delay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u159	Thank you. I'm declaring a break until 18.35. We shall meet to discuss the resolution on this matter.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u160	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats in the hall and we will continue. I'll call in my colleagues from the lobby. We are therefore, after the close of the detailed debate, just before the vote. But before I give the rapporteur the floor, Vice-President Filip wishes to speak with priority.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u161	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Members of the government, ma'am and gentlemen, you know, it was hard to listen to today's debate. dnešek has confirmed that it is hard to imagine that this coalition, after it has shown its differences, is able to do something for the citizens of this republic. It was evident that most of them were thinking more about what was important to her and not to the citizens. Therefore, there is no other choice but to do so under Article 4 (1) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 2 The Constitution of the Czech Republic called on the presidents of the political parties involved in the work of this House, whether they are coalition or opposition, to decide their dissolution of 120 votes and to allow citizens of the Czech Republic to decide again who will represent them. I believe that your quarrels bring nothing to this country and that it is much more important that those who decide the fate of this country, citizens of the Czech Republic, have a chance to say whether you are even able to sit next to each other in government benches. It would have one huge advantage. Elections would take place in the spring, at the latest in June, because before we can make it to the February meeting, and the next government, however it will be, will be able to prepare its own state budget according to the victory in the elections. Because I doubt that this coalition could prepare a budget for the benefit of the citizens of our country in the fights you are having. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u162	However, we will not vote on this proposal today. Mr. Kalousek, please. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u163	Ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief. I repeat that the TOP 09 MP is thanking all members of the commission for their professional work. We have no reason to question the text that has been presented to us today. We have no reason not to support the motions for resolutions that have fallen. Of course, unanswered questions remain in the air, e.g. whether the individual activism of the people of the Olomouc State Prosecutor, which the report referred to as activist, whether it was really subjective activism, or whether there was a political order being executed there. Whether the link to the strong issue of the election campaign of one political party was accidental or pre-arranged. These are all questions that will probably haunt us, but to which there are no clear answers. But that the committee gave a clear answer, as it was with the media kitsch about proud and brave police officers and impartial prosecutors, it did. We thank you for this information. We take note of it and will vote in favour of the motions for resolutions of the commission of inquiry. In response to President Filip's call for all the parliamentary parties, I would like to say that I take note of Miloš Zeman's wishes, but I have no reason to comply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u164	If there are no other applications with priority rights, I will ask the rapporteur to take his role and lecture us on the various motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u165	Thank you for the floor. I'm glad we're finally making it to the finals. Just a brief summary for the idea. During the general debate, there were 8 duly registered speakers, 11 with priority rights and 83 factual points. So the debate was fertile, rich, I'd say even meaningful, but I'm not quite sure about that. As far as the detailed debate is concerned, there have been a total of 7 motions for resolutions, which we should vote on individually. And I will ask the President to vote on them in the order in which they were presented. This means that the first motion for a resolution is from the workshop of President Hamáček, who is in the wording that the Chamber of Deputies calls on the Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš to apologize for his remarks to the committee of inquiry of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u166	Yes. I'll check you out of the diaper on request, and I'm asking for a new registration. And then we'll vote. The motion for a resolution has been made. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? The vote has number 312, registered is 122, for 82, against 33. This proposal was adopted. Next, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u167	We are now coming to a set of resolutions, which come from the committee of inquiry, where it was voted and which was delivered by President Blažek here in plenary. I am not sure if it is necessary for me to read these proposals in detail. I think they're all in front of you. The first, in brief, would be that the Chamber of Deputies takes note of the final report of the commission of inquiry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u168	I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? The vote has order number 313. Registered is 123, for 86, against 30. This proposal was adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u169	We are coming to the second motion for a resolution by which the Commission of inquiry asks the House to call on the Government to consider whether a disciplinary action is sufficient to ensure legality in the activities of the High Prosecutor's Office in Olomouc, or whether further measures, including personnel, are needed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u170	Just to be clear, the resolution is: the Chamber of Deputies calls on the government and so on. [[Member Lank: Yes.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? The vote shall have a serial number 314. Registered is 123, for 84, against 32. This proposal was adopted. Next, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u171	We are coming to paragraph 3 of the resolution agreed by the Commission of inquiry. It is once again that the Chamber of Deputies asks the Government to submit a draft law containing amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Criminal Code within three months, see the text before you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u172	I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who opposes this proposal? The vote has a serial number 315. Registered 123, for 85, against 33. This proposal was adopted. Next, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u173	Point 4 of the set of draft accompanying resolutions from the commission of inquiry in which we propose: The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government to submit a draft law within three months, which will contain a change in the criminal code as regards the authorisation of prosecutors.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u174	I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? The vote has a serial number 316. Registered is 123, for 83, versus 37. This proposal was adopted. Next, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u175	The penultimate motion for a resolution was tabled by Vice-President Bartošek in the context of a detailed debate. It is amended as follows: The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government to ensure consistent application of § 88 para. 2 and 4 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, in connection with the assessment of the relevance of wiretapping and recording of telecommunications traffic, for example by means of a binding instruction, methodological instruction, opinions and the like.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u176	I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? The vote has a serial number 317. Registered 123, for 65, against 33. This proposal was adopted. Next, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u177	We are getting to the last proposal, the author is a colleague Daniel Korte. It is a proposal for an accompanying resolution of the Chamber of Deputies, which complements the report of the commission of inquiry, as amended by: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic asks the Government to submit a draft law to it within three months, which will contain an amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure, so that, firstly, the authority of the State's representative to grant authorisation to the police authority to monitor persons in whom sound records are to be made pursuant to Section 158d of the Code of Criminal Procedure, and that such powers be given to the court only. Secondly, in order to properly ensure a functional system of information and records of the persons listening to it, where the police authority has used an operational search device to monitor persons and objects and has not used the information thus obtained in the course of the criminal proceedings, or where the information found has not led to the initiation of criminal proceedings, and to ensure that such information is subsequently disposed of.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u178	I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? The vote has order number 318. It's logged in 124, 57, versus 35. This proposal was not adopted. I believe that we have voted on all the resolutions proposed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u179	In my opinion, too, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-02-ps2013-054-11-004-297.u180	Nobody's protesting. In that case, I will conclude the discussion of this point and, given the time, I will end today's meeting day. I'm interrupting the House meeting by 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Have a good evening.
