ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-002-221.u1	221. Government bill amending Act No. 328/1999 Coll., on Civil Cards, as amended, and other related laws /house print 928/ - third reading I ask that the Minister of the Interior Milan Chovanec and the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, Mrs Věra Kovářová, take the position at the rapporteur's table. The motion for rejection and amendments are set out in the Houses of Press 928/2, which was delivered on 19 January 2017. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as House Press 928/3. [[9.30 hours]] I now welcome the Minister and ask him if he is interested in speaking before the debate is opened. He doesn't. I am therefore opening the debate, which has so far been joined by two Members - the first Mr Ivan Pilný, Mr Jan Klán will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. [[Big noise in the hall.]] I'm sorry, just for a second. To the left, I'm asking for peace. I'm hearing a loud phone call. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-002-221.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. [[The speaker speaks very quietly.]] Dear Minister, honourable members of the government, esteemed colleagues and colleagues... [[Voices from the diaper to adjust the speaker's microphone because he can't be heard. The speaker continues to stand away from the microphone.]] I'm sorry, I have a little voice indisposition, but I'm gonna try to make you understand. I'm performing at third reading because I filed a motion to dismiss this law after the exhaustion of all possibilities to correct it. At the third reading, I will not repeat the arguments I have made here, but I will try to make the arguments new, absolutely simple. The first thing I would like to do is to ask the present minister and those who want to vote in favour of this law, how he has hundreds of thousands and millions of these devices in this country, the reader, the suspender. [[It shows in one hand a cell phone, in the other hand a tablet. He's waiting for everyone to see what's in his hand.]] If you don't know the answer, I'll be polite, you can put the reader in the drawer. There's no such connector! All companies that produce similar equipment are trying to get out of them with technology that is obsolete, which is from the last century, to make them cheaper, more efficient and faster. That's the first thing. Then I tried to find some sort of ratio in it, what we're actually gonna do with the chip ID. I found two things I'd like to talk about, and that's an electronic signature, and then we won't go to the authorities. Electronic signature, mantra, certification, certification authority. In fact, the point is to prove that you are what you are and that you have the right to carry out the transaction. [[Noise in the hall.]] Let me give you an example. When you came to the mall and you wanted to pay, now aside from the era when the cards were still embedded and the iron was running, they took your card, they dragged it through, you approved the purchase, you put in some identification code, pin, then you signed and the cashier checked to see if your signature was on the card, and they agreed on the scrap. Now it looks like you guys are coming, you're gonna put a card like this, and if the amount is small enough, you're paid. If it isn't, you'll approve it, you'll give it a pin, and it's done. You just signed electronically. However, that will not be possible with the citizen, because comrades from the GDR, sorry, from IT, forgot that there are contactless chips today and that the Czech Republic is second in the world after Australia in penetration of contactless chips. Second in the world! I.D.'s never gonna be paid. But any action that can be used by a contactless chip cannot be used because it's just not there. As another example, each of you has this card that we get to Parliament and different rooms. [[He's showing the key card.]] Now imagine that we go to the authorities many times a year. That's where we write down some books or write down data from our I.D. If the I.D. contained a contactless chip, just put it in and for two hours, or as long as the receptionist wishes, we're just in there. That's impossible again. The ID doesn't have a contactless chip. This means that the sum of the sum summarized, we are trying to implement technology from the last century completely obsolent for hundreds of millions of crowns at the expense of taxpayers. The last example is - we're not going to the authorities. Let me give you a simple example. Today you can...
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-002-221.u3	Gentlemen, please leave your calls in the hall or move to the lobby. You know who I'm looking at. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-002-221.u4	Today you can go to CzechPOINT without any problems and find out the status of your point account driver. I hope the Ministry of Transport pilots and pilots a system in which you identify yourself on your mobile phone, for example, by fingerprinting your finger or otherwise, and your account will be in text. You're not gonna do that with an I.D. A citizen isn't a text receiver. So if I sum it up, I'm saying again that we're trying for hundreds of millions of crowns--
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-002-221.u5	I'm gonna ask for some peace in the room again. It's an interesting contribution. Many of us don't know the issue. If you have anything to say, leave the O.R.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-002-221.u6	I've already tried here, or I know from the media that the State Price Factory, to save its own skin, is piloting the print of the IDs with the chip, of course, without the selection process, as it usually is. And we're just gonna approve something here that's gonna cost this country hundreds of millions, and it has absolutely no sense. I would appeal, in particular, to those members of the so-called 202020 Initiative, which Mr Běhounek of Social Democracy has raised here, and when we stood, as Mr Klán, President Stanjura and I, we did to such a bush Minister and Prime Minister when they presented the initiative. And I would just like to say that if the members of this initiative vote in favour of this, the next time we don't have to meet on the Economic Committee or on the Public Administration Committee, but in the cave and light our torches.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-002-221.u7	Dear colleagues! [[The President is ringing the bell.]] I know it's Friday, it's been a third week. At least some basic respect for a colleague who's telling you something. I'll wait until you calm down. Please, Mr. Ambassador, don't go on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-002-221.u8	Thank you. I apologize for my voice indisposition. But I've tried to sum up the arguments you've heard, completely factually and simply, so I think any of you who wanted to understand understands. I understand the attitude of Members of Social Democracy because he's their minister, they're loyal, and they're gonna vote for this. But perhaps there are some among them who say to themselves for the sake of the living, perhaps we also have common sense. I have exhausted a number of contributions in this House to try to return the law and change it to make sense. This way, he's going to return us back to the 20th century at the cost of $100 million. Please consider it in your vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-002-221.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your contribution and your patience. Mr Klán wants to respond with a point of fact. After that, a factual comment by Mr Chalup and Mr Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-002-221.u10	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Government, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to respond by your means to Mr Pilný, regardless of the fact that I did not understand him because he did not speak directly into the microphone, so I would ask him to repeat it once more, so that I can understand him better. [[Announcements from the Yes bench.]] I understand he's a little indisposed, but he could have been a little closer to the microphone. At the same time, I am fascinated by the government coalition's rejection of government proposals. This is the most fascinating thing that fascinates me here in this House. The Government Member proposes that the Government proposal be rejected. I don't understand. There's a lot of possibilities why I don't understand. But you know, if you're a government coalition, you're gonna stick together. Maybe it's time to disband, maybe, 'cause this clownhouse you're doing here, especially today when introducing civil documents, is pretty rusty. But I like it. I'm really enjoying it, because it shows your weakness to even agree on something. And with the IDs with the chip, that's another thing that's making you, as you can see, pretty crazy. And I'm curious about the vote then about the motion to dismiss [[9.40 hours]] I'm not gonna support it, 'cause we need to move on a little bit. Move forward or at least somehow push the IT area. I was just amused that the IT comrades made a mistake somewhere. We're not aware that we have some sort of basic organization somewhere, just in that respect. So I'm fascinated by the whole thing. But think about it a little bit! When you're government MPs, stick together! And you're still going, "Rejection! Return to rework! And they're doing it wrong, and they're doing it worse! Try to think about it a little bit about what it looks like on the outside, at least. It looks bad. Let's face it, this. If the IT area is somehow sophisticated, it just needs to be moved! And so did the rapporteur, and we have talked about this many times with the rapporteur. I understand that there is still a lack of electronic identity that needs to be done to make it all work. And then I'll talk about it in the general debate. That's what needs to be worked out! If you have a male, if we look at it, and he's missing a female, it just has something to do with it in this context. Think about it, too! I will then be quite extensive and long in the debate, so then we can still have a discussion here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-002-221.u11	Thank you. Another factual point, Mr Chalupa. Mr Stanjura will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-002-221.u12	Thank you for the floor, colleagues, colleagues, I will continue to entertain my colleague here. I am another government member who will vote against the adoption of this law because what Mr Ivan Pilný said here is clear. I refuse to make a policy here so that state money, taxpayers' money, will be spent here for things that aren't ready. Here are a lot of initiatives: Safe cities, Smart City. I think this country has what it takes to be a Smart Country, and if we accept this law, we'll never be a Smart Country! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-002-221.u13	Thank you. I'll ask for peace in the hall again! With a factual remark, Mr Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-002-221.u14	For the Chairman of the Economic Committee, by your means: I did it by the bushes at the press conference, too, and I will not vote in favour of the law. And the arguments are rational, they're not political. I could give you some examples that wouldn't be entirely appropriate. But we're getting something, or we're getting something that won't do us any good. We can then commend ourselves for getting something that looks like progress, but if you don't use it in practice, it's basically useless. Of course, you can buy and build a luxury garage, even if you know you won't have a car for the next 30 years, and you can say to the neighbors: Look, I already have a garage! Beautiful, best material on the roof, beautiful color. But I'm never gonna get that car because I'm tired of driving, I don't have the money or anything. I am surprised when the opposition MP complains that they are not going through government bills. We should not judge whether the resignations of these Members are from the government or from the opposition, but on such material and technical matters we should judge the performances whether they are true or not. And I think that approving this law is useless, it doesn't move us anywhere, it's a kind of shot in the dark. And we have to start from the top, not start with one detail at the bottom. Because then we'll be surprised that the detail isn't really useful. And in general, when we talk about electronization, we really think about all of our citizens. Let us give them the opportunity - the possibility - and motivate them to use it. Let's not say it. Because I still read, every year: This year ends the deadline for the mandatory exchange of driving licences! It's over this year! Another 600,000! And another 400,000, and New Year's Silvestr, the municipal authorities will open up so that, after three years, those who haven't switched have a chance. We're still changing the papers. [[Attention on time.]] I'm just saying, we don't have a concept. If we don't start from upstairs, we're gonna make mistakes by dealing with the lower levels.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-002-221.u15	Thank you. Another factual point, Mr Pilný. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-002-221.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Again, I apologize for my indisposition. This is the third reading of the Civil Card Act. It is not about the dispute in the coalition, Mr Klán, through the President. I'm more interested in you talking about this being an important step forward if you, specifically, could finally show me where to put the reader. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-002-221.u17	Thank you for keeping the time limit. With another factual remark, Mr Hájek is registered.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-002-221.u18	Mr President, fellow Members, I would like to apologize to Mr Kučer from this point, and I always accuse him of speaking improperly. And today, Mr. Klán overcame it. I'm sorry. I listened very carefully to Mr. Pilný's speech, who, in sickness, came here in the fevers to actually fight for taxpayers. Mr. Klán laughed and gestured wildly with his comrades at the time he performed! And then he complains that he can't hear. This is completely incorrect from my point of view, and I do not like it, Mr Klán, - through the President. I understand that Mr Klán, as a representative of the Communists, wants to return to 1917 in the year of the 100th anniversary of the VŘSR. Congratulations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-002-221.u19	Thank you. With another factual remark, Mr Karel Fiedler.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-002-221.u20	I've already got my turn, so it's only a short time since I see that the minister is applying for his word and he wants to get out. I just wanted to ask the Minister if he would leave his reaction to the final word, which I can see that the Minister will not respond, I suppose, to the words of my colleague Ivan Pilný before the final word, so that we can still discuss matters. About what my fellow Member Klán said here. Well, they're about to get elected, so why are we surprised that all of a sudden there's this weird thing going on in a government coalition? And what Zbyněk Stanjura said about judging the matter pragmatically, really. Oh, great. I totally agree with that. It's a little swallow, it's not the first. It has also happened here that the House has judged matters pragmatically, really and not according to who is presenting it and with what purpose, but completely pragmatically. It is only a pity that such a vote, when we deal with the substance of the matter, occurs only in the fourth year of this government coalition and that a number of previous votes, in my view, have unfortunately been led by some coalition cohesion and not by that pragmatic reason. But thank God for that. And I expect the Minister to express his views or his views on the President of the Pilný Economic Committee, which I know he presented in a consistent manner here when discussing this House's press. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-002-221.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Gabal, Mr Váňa, will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, your time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-002-221.u22	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Since my colleague Pilný and I have been having this debate for several times now, I appreciate if the indisposed person has come. I think he can't hear me right now... [[Mr Faltynek is speaking to him.]] The key question, of course, is technological, and I understand that, but the second is that it has eight and a half million people in its hands or how many, about that, we talked about it last time, that it's a cultural phenomenon and identity in our country, the citizen, and it needs to be answered by the question of what to do with the citizen next. That's the first thing. Then through you here to my colleague Klán. In times of indiscreet unit of the Communist Party and the working people, we have fallen behind in IT by about 20 years. When my colleagues and I joined one of the first PCs in 1987 and we brought him to our academic institute, your Communist organization ordered us to remove him from the workplace because he favors us disproportionately and brings us closer to the West. So, co-worker, I hope we're done with this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-002-221.u23	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Váňa, with his point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-002-221.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, a fellow Member of the Communist Party has just expressed the surprise that Members are debating here. I think, even when he called it a clown show, it certainly wasn't very original. We've heard that word before, I feel like last night in a similar connotation, questioning parliamentary democracy. And I'm expressing some concern about whether or not there's some sort of anti-democracy virus going on here. And it is certainly not spread by Mr Pilný, through the President. So I would ask that we be very careful in questioning the rights of Members of Government or any other party to speak to anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-002-221.u25	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Vojtěch Filip will speak with another factual remark. Your two minutes, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-002-221.u26	Thank you. I don't want to delay, but, ladies and gentlemen, you know, I'm 18. 6. 2014 submitted a proposal for a Civil Card Act. I presented him as a lawyer, a lawyer who was worried that we were creating a white horse here by not including the citizen's vital information about whether the person was self-righteous or limited to his rightfulness. I was happy, and I didn't pressure anyone else at all when it finally came through after the committee meeting, that it would be an electronic ID card and that the data could be there. I'm sorry, I'm really sorry, country attorney, I'm not from Prague and I don't have a technical education. But I can't help what happened to this bill. I myself stepped aside from the term of the draft law which I wanted to protect the citizens of the Czech Republic from stealing here and stealing from the will of the state. And in that respect, you're going to tell me in 2017, that the law is wrong? Do those who did this really make fun of me? Now I don't understand. Mr Pilný is the chairman of the Economic Committee, and he could certainly have had an impact on the way in which the bill will be made, first of all, and second of all, on the way in which technical training will be carried out at the Ministry of the Interior. And don't be mad at me, I'm offended that it will be remembered in 2017. So we left here without completing the bill, which I wanted to limit the possibilities to create white horses, what the identity card looks like, ask the lawyers, ask elsewhere what it is. And I really don't like this. I just wanted to take advantage of a technical reminder. [[President: two minutes.]] But that press 234, I won't forget.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-002-221.u27	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Mr Pavel Kováčik, President of the KSČM MEP's club, with another factual remark. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-002-221.u28	Hello, hello. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr President, Mrs and gentlemen, let us listen to each other. After all, my colleague Klán, Mr Váňa, through the President, did not object to the debate here. We can talk about whether, in the third reading, etc., in the sense of the Rules of Procedure, this or that is to happen. My colleague Klán wondered that, at third reading, government MPs were arguing with one another - rejecting each other's proposals and so on. And that's how yesterday's baggirl goes, yes, I'm stressing the word that was here in the government coalition. And so you're just confirming that what we said here at the end yesterday, that nothing will be done, that it doesn't bring anything new, and that it needs to be dissolved, has a real basis. And I would like to thank Mr Hájek for commemorating the anniversary of VŘSR. We didn't exactly dare, so I'm glad we found an ally in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-002-221.u29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Another point of fact - I have Mr Klán here. Your two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-002-221.u30	Thank you for the floor. He's already said it for me. I didn't question any discussion. It simply amazes me how government MPs reject government proposals. You guys should stick together after all. But it confirms the bag from yesterday. I'm really worried that the law should pass at all. 'Cause I'm gonna be honest, I'm really not into this. And to drag some hot chestnuts out of the fire for you, that you're rejecting each other here, I'm not even doing the KSČM MP's. I don't have a problem with the state administration's electronization. And the rapporteur knows that. We often discuss it with each other, talk about it on the committee, and go through whatever it takes. Even from the Home Office workshop. The fact that some things are not going through, such as ICT in the Union, or, let's just say, whether Mr Pilný pardons, by your means, in Microsoft, because he was a long-time director, does not go through these ideas, so that is their problem, not ours. I represent the citizens of the Czech Republic here, of course, and it is about making it easier for them to communicate with the authorities. I understand that they can then log in, as has been said here, for example, using my smartphone ID and all that stuff. But that's the music of the future, there's still not that many machines. I understand that, for example, Australia, the Czech Republic has a rather sophisticated phenomenon. Then I'll talk here in the debate and the possibilities of the big brother, if she keeps the big data, the big data, how the data will be shredded, how long it will be stored. I'll be interested in all this in the debate. We haven't answered that yet. And the problem here is that for four years something has been being prepared, it will come to some phase where it is to be approved, and a government MP will propose rejection. That's really amazing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-002-221.u31	Thank you, too. Another factual point - Mr Koníček. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-002-221.u32	Mr President, I would just like to draw attention to one inaccuracies in Mr Pilný's speech. Not every computer can do anything. Even our laptops don't have a chip reader in them. But most peripheral devices connect to computing systems using USB. This smartphone of yours has a micro USB and the reader will go to connect it, of course, but you just have to have a cable called OTG.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-002-221.u33	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Another was signed in by Mr Sklenák, who withdrew his application. Mr Ivan Pilný will make a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-002-221.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Once again, Mr Klán has not taken advantage of the opportunity, in the interests of the citizens of this country, whom he has set up here to answer where to put the reader. What I'm saying is nothing against this beautiful reduced miniature that contains biometric data. She will accompany us for many years. [[He's pointing.]] But I am defending myself from burdening the citizens of the Czech Republic with a hundred-million-dollar cost, which will be absolutely useless. No offense to this citizen. And what President Filip said. I took part in an active long month of discussion with the Ministry of Interior officials, including the I.T.s, and I tried to convince them that this was nonsense. Unfortunately, I didn't succeed. This means that not only as Chairman of the Economic Committee, but as Member of Ivan Pilný, I have done everything possible to bring the law into a form that makes sense. I've tried to do it here in the House, but the House has always denied me these attempts to return it, rework it, etc., as I'm sure you remember. As far as Mr Koníček is concerned, I would like to assure him that there is really no USB involved in the instruments he has shown here. For example, my colleague Kasal here, who sits next to me, has a machine like this. There isn't even any reduction that would allow USB to connect it when we're talking about technical parameters. The devices I've been showing here allow the connection with a contactless chip, yes, but that doesn't include the law. And those devices in which USB will be able to be involved will be drastically declining in the period when the chip IDs will gradually increase. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-002-221.u35	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. With another factual remark, Mr Schwarz. No, you did, you did. In that case, Mr Bendl, with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-002-221.u36	Thank you for the floor. She's a sad sight for that. I must therefore say - and there is no doubt that we are ideal and ideologically each on a completely different side of the barricade with Mr Klán - that the entire Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development has been doing its utmost for a long time to call on the competent authorities, the Minister of the Interior, the Prime Minister and others to engage in the electronisation of the public administration, because nothing has happened for the last three years. Nothing. Since the Czech Czechpoint, the Czech Republic has not moved anywhere. And our will, our Members, was to make it something! Now, basically, you've asked the opposition to say so well, so make it up and come up with something you can agree on. But for me, the result is that you've done nothing in four years.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-002-221.u37	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The last point of fact was Mr Hájek, who withdraws his application. In that case, with priority rights, the Minister, following him with priority rights, the rapporteur, then Mr Klán and Mr Bendl. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-002-221.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I had no idea how far we would get in the debate on the ID, what kind of retrospective we would do in history, and even focus on who he is or is not a comrade. Let it be to the credit of Mr Pilný, through Mr President, that he really endures the arguments for a very long time. On the other hand, I don't know how yesterday's debate on the reorganization of the police showed up in this debate. The ANO colleagues will, of course, tell me at all. I don't believe it, but I guess that's my personal feeling. And I hope you don't have a problem, colleagues, with me having feelings. If we say in this House who can laugh, who can talk, who can watch, I would not want to work in this House. Maybe one day you'll see it - after the winning election. To avoid prolonging the charade here, because it's a government proposal and it's probably a violation of the coalition agreement, that's how you like to enchant yourself, so I would ask the Honorable House to return this proposal to second reading and to pursue it. It is a great pity that Mr Pilný, and I address him through the President, did not devote so much activity to the debates with Mrs Vildumetzová, who prepared this proposal. No doubt you know that Mrs Vildumetzová is a member of your movement, currently the governor in the Karlovy Vary Region. And one more thing, let me. I think electronics is a very good servant, but a very bad master. Please let the state guarantee the security of the transmission. We simply believe that this technology is conservative. And it's conservative for the state to guarantee security features. I'm not in favour of identifying ourselves with every smartphone. Look at the hacker attacks on the State Department, look at the situation in the elections in Austria, look at other abuse techniques. I refuse to get into the situation of a gentleman who was recently told that he had everything in his house done on a fingerprint, then he went overboard with a mole in the hot tub outside, wet his finger and waited three hours for him to dry. So if you guys want this world, I don't want it. So that's it. I ask the House of Honor to return this proposal to the second reading, because the charade and the charade that is taking place here is not worthy of this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-002-221.u39	Thank you, Minister. I'm registering your proposal to repeat second reading. And now Mr Chalupa will speak with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-002-221.u40	Thank you for the floor and thank the Minister for taking this approach. I'm leaning forward to getting it back to second reading. I say this as a Member as well as as as a signatory to the 202020 initiative, where you also have your representatives, so I think we will do the necessary work on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-002-221.u41	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Another point of fact, Mr Schwarz.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-002-221.u42	Good morning, everyone. I would also like to thank the Minister. Because I'm not good at IT, but this morning, when I asked him, a colleague of mine told me exactly what the Minister said was important, too, to the security of the transmission. So I'm glad to put it in second reading because I heard the Minister's opinion and from the point of view of what's going on today, I think I know why the Minister's pushing it in this direction too, that a beep somewhere near the register or an old chip to prevent me from using anything is also interesting. So thank you for the second reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-002-221.u43	Thank you. I don't see any more factual remarks. So, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-002-221.u44	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, allow me to read legislative technical adaptations as amended by: One. In Part One, point 8. In point 8, the text is replaced by the following: 7 insert text "a 8'. Reason: Identical amendment as referred to in point (a) of Article 2 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the The release of the words of the ID card is the holder due to the introduction of the legislative abbreviation. Two. [[The President is asking for peace in the hall.]] In Part One, the following amendment point is inserted after point 28: "X. V §14 para. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1 with the text "st. 2' is replaced by "paragraph 2'. 3'. In order to insert a new paragraph 2 in Section 8, point 14 and renumber the following paragraphs, it is necessary to update the references and add the amendment point. Three. In the fourth part of Article IV (1), which is amended by the Act on Information Systems of Public Administration, it reads: "In the fourth part of Article IV (1), the letter in point (w) is replaced by the letter "w' and the letter "w' is replaced by "x'. Reason: It follows from the context of the proposed provision that the intention of the petitioner was to supplement the new letter in Section 2 of Act No. 365/2000 Coll., on Information Systems of Public Administration, as amended. Since the letter w is already in the provision in question, the letter w must be replaced by the letter x. In the event of adoption of amendments under press 928/2, I will read the following legislative technical adaptations: One. As regards the amendment in point No 3 The legislative technical regulation reads: "In § 4a para. 6 with the text "st. 6' shall be replaced by "paragraph 6'. 7'. Reason: Update of references due to change in § 4. Two. As regards the amendment in point No 5 The legislative technical regulation reads: "In § 8 para. the text "in paragraphs 7 and 8' shall be replaced by the following: Article 2 (2) shall be replaced by the text "in paragraph 2 of this Article. 3'. Reason: Update of links due to insertion of new § 8 para. 2. And now, if I have the floor, let me comment on this heated debate. It could be outdated, it could be God-knows-what and there could be other, new methods. I think it's important that we start somewhere. You've been waiting. The government, the coalition MPs, and you, Mr Pilný, have waited three years for this proposal to be brought to the House. And I am sorry that this debate is taking place at third reading. Because if you do this, our Republic will indeed be completely uncompetitive and you will not simplify communication with the authorities. [[10.10 hours]] And maybe I just want to ask a question about the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, which concerns their systems, which would allow citizens to communicate through a citizen with a chip. This is not in the explanatory memorandum whether these systems are ready and whether, if we were to approve the bill in the third reading, whether their systems will be ready at the time of their effectiveness, so that the citizen can communicate with them precisely with the citizen of the chip. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-002-221.u45	Thank you, rapporteur. Mr Ivan Pilný will respond with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-002-221.u46	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. For the last time today. For one thing, I would like to thank the Minister publicly for his helpful proposal to return this bill to second reading and thus allow discussion. To Mrs. Mrs. Kovářová. I take part in the debate on how an electronic identity is supposed to look, as long as I am in the Chamber of Deputies. First of all. Two. It always depends on the arrow where we move the citizens. This law stuffs them back into the cave. Even Mrs Kovářová won't answer me how in tens of millions of devices I will attach a suspender with a chip. I've already said the answer here, and that's all I've heard. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-002-221.u47	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. With another factual remark, Mr Grospič, Mr Běhounek, after him. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-002-221.u48	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues, honourable members of the government, of course, I do not want to delay the negotiation of this law, but I am following up on what I have already pointed out here in the second reading that this law will not simplify the work of the officials of the municipalities, which, after all, will deal with these matters. The whole system is very unconnected, and in the form in which it has now come to the vote, I think it will also be counterproductive. I would therefore advocate that this matter be, as some of my previous speakers suggest, returned to the committees for second reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-002-221.u49	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Another factual point, Mr Běhounek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-002-221.u50	Mr President, Minister, colleagues, I am only very sorry that we have been having this debate here repeatedly. I am not hiding, by your means, that my colleague Pilný takes consistent positions, but although I repeatedly asked him to come up with an opinion, he always pulls out a paper or a card, waving and saying that it is a matter of executives. We can't say that we don't do anything in IT if we actively contribute to it, and what we're trying to do, we're actually tearing down ourselves. Please, let's not do this because then we'll really be in the last century. And not with an I.D., not with a chip that's supposed to make sure no one can fake it in any way. I think a colleague of Pilný might understand. He doesn't want to. So I understand, and I wish you to make the right decision.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-002-221.u51	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Before I give the floor to Mr Klán, I shall read an apology. For personal reasons, Mr Ladislav Velebný apologizes from today's meeting at 11 o'clock, because of illness, Mr Martin Sedlář apologizes. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-002-221.u52	Thank you for the floor. Good morning, Mr Vice-President, Minister, colleagues. Much has been said in the factual remarks made here. Of course, I agree with some. And the point is, if we've been discussing this for a year now and I'm not able to agree on a procedure, how are we supposed to somehow move it further, the electronization of the state administration and the introduction of electronic civil documents, then there's nothing left to do but return it to second reading. But in that case, let's say goodbye to the fact that we will be able to discuss this in this parliamentary term. The introduction of civil documents with a chip or any communication with the authorities is a matter not for a single term. And doing that at the end of the term is really a mistake. That's a piece of me I've known here for years, because I've been here before in the last term. When anything, such a serious subject, was discussed, it was more than one parliamentary term. Otherwise, we get somewhere where there are current electronic IDs, where you have a chip for 500 crowns, and there's nothing to it. At least there was an effort to make electronic IDs free of charge, not for 500 crowns. It will move somewhere, as the rapporteur said. I fully agree with that. It needs to be moved somewhere. And I agree with the Minister, with the example that there's just a lot of electronics, where there's something on the fingerprint, and then something happens, so you're not getting anywhere. A lot of electronization is bad for you, too. I don't have a problem with introducing and making people's lives easier when we have digital society here. Digitization goes forward, it goes on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on Even computers develop every 18 months. There's this Moorův law where the computer is constantly developing and developing into some other better elements. But we have to start somehow. We have to start doing something about it somehow. I understand Mr. Pilný's reservations about where I'm going to involve it and all that stuff. Mr Koníček, through the President, answered these questions. But that really doesn't solve anything. This is really about making it easier for people to communicate with the authorities somehow. That's what this is all about. Electronic IDs need to be introduced. I'm going to talk about the fact that, of course, many people are afraid of controlled society, that they'll just be supervised. Sociological theories and some surveys show that people are afraid that they will eventually be chipped or that they will have some other things on them and that they will be under the supervision of the famous velký bratr, as George Orwell wrote in his novel, that everything will simply be supervised, everything, everywhere. Of course, they have something similar introduced almost in Estonia. There's an electronization of the government at a high level, the Big Brother could work in some way. Or even in the United States, and there are even problems with the leaks of the data. Big data, big data leaking away. I imagine our Home Office will be attacked by someone like it was at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and the data will somehow be drained and then released. Then maybe we'd be surprised that the state somehow stores our data, which is why it's not settled here, how the data will be shredded and how long they'll be stored on server devices, because it's very dangerous. We know the Snowden affair from the United States, when different data leaked, or Panama Papers, these examples exist, or Obamacare, when the United States collected data from individual citizens on health insurance companies and then sold it to private corporations. It's all possible. All of this exists, and the greater the connection in digital society, these problems will somehow occur. This needs to be addressed, of course, in cyber security and cyber security and other things. However, if we really want to move electronization in some way, electronic IDs are in the right direction. Of course, we can talk about the fact that technology is outdated in some way, it can be, the chip is really outdated of course, and Mr.Pilný here said that if you go shopping and you have a contact card, you put it on the reader and you have up to CZK 500 paid without having to enter a PIN. It really does exist. Well, I'm not using it because I don't have much confidence in it, because for safety reasons, if someone steals my card, of course, they can buy it all they want. I'm worried about this, too. Fear is so much more. There are many other problems with electronic citizens' IDs. Yes, but when this is being discussed for three years, and it was discussed by the representatives of the YES movement, as the Minister said, Mrs Vildumetzová, I was also working with her on this problem, so it is a hell of a problem for the government coalition to try to find consensus across the political spectrum in some way, because it really is a problem for several parliamentary periods to coincide with this, because even this bill was expected to be launched in some way only in 2018, so it was not until the new parliamentary term. [[10.20 hours]] Now, if we go back to second reading, then I don't have a problem with it, if we agree to put it back there, but in that case, I want to hear some clear solutions to change it, and not just say it's outdated, we'll return it to second reading, and that's where it's gonna stay. At least that's my understanding. If we put it back in, we have to have some sort of solution at this point to redo the whole thing. But we had three years for that! It seems to me that for three years something has been going on here, as they say, slaps and nothing happens, everything is absolutely calm and then some disgruntled government MP comes along and says, "I'm making a motion to dismiss." This reduces the weight of those who have prepared the law and who have worked on it in some way. And I agree here when I spoke with my colleague Jirka Petr, when we went to those meetings for electronization and the introduction of electronic civil documents, I'm not going to go there either, because it's really nothing. You're trying to do something, you're trying to introduce something to make it work in society, and then there's someone here who says, "I'm making a motion to dismiss." It's not possible! What do these people really think of us in the finals? It is no wonder, then, that the House's weight is at a low level when we cannot agree on these basic, elementary things for society and, of course, citizens' IDs affect it. We all have IDs from the age of 15. Of course, I was glad that we managed at least to introduce civil documents for 5, 10 and 35 years because of the offline regime at the authorities, when you had to drive a man over 70 years of age, in essence, to get his picture taken there, and let him exchange his ID every 10 years. Of course, I was glad that the Ministry of the Interior also acknowledged my comment on the period of validity of the ID and the lifetime of the chip in people over 70 years of age. That's where everything was worked out. That's why I welcomed this, that's why I supported this. I've never had a problem with that. I understand that some people have a problem with that, they're building a different model, as my colleague Pilný here says, signing up with smartphones and stuff like that. I even have an old phone, so I wouldn't put it anywhere at all, so I don't really care either. [[shows]] So I would welcome this model, but, of course, smartphones, iPads and other things will go forward. Yes, they will go forward within the framework of the electronicisation and digitization of the company. This will become more and more developed. This is simply the logical development of this phenomenon. I'm saying I'm really sorry we're not going anywhere. [[Notes from the diaper.]] Well, then, I wonder, by your means, Mr President, when some Members are yelling at me where we are going. There are other ways to put it. We can move anywhere, that's right. If I take it from a theoretical point of view, we can move back. That's what we've been talking about in factual notes, too, but it's a shame. So I'm really pushing for electronic IDs to be introduced. And I say, of course, I understand the risks that may occur in the leak of the large data that will be collected. It's like a supply to a controlled company that somewhere someone will have additional control over me. That's a fact too. It also shows this problem that someone might know something about me. But today, at the time of the digital society, everyone can still know something about me, because everyone has that smart phone with a GPS localizer, and you're located absolutely without any problems on the network, and anyone who hacks in there can track you down if they have any kind of good information systems. And there are these companies in the world that are taking advantage of it. That is also an indisputable fact. And it's the electronic citizen that's a little bit in between that the chip somehow can't identify you remotely, whereas the smartphone that has GPS is usually someone who can identify you remotely. And that's also clear, and that's a simple thing, and that's an IT expert through you, Mr. Pilný, should also know, and I think he knows this. I'm not an IT expert. I'm an original electrician, but I'm dealing with IT because I'm just enjoying it and I'm not afraid of the electronization. And we need to explain it to people. Explaining to them that it's an asset to them, but if we're gonna fight here all the time, guessing only whether it's what the minister here said, a clown show, or any other thing, it's a shame. It's a shame, because we could have moved somewhere, but we're really gonna be at a dead end, as I say, if we put it back to second reading, it's gonna be there by the end of the term. We will not move forward, and thus it will remain for the next government coalition, and in some way we will lose three years and the efforts made by the people who tried to introduce electronic IDs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-002-221.u53	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. With a proper application for the debate, another Mr Petr Bendl is registered. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-002-221.u54	It's been said a lot. I'll try to be really brief. I believe that the Czech Republic has no authority, or, say, state administration, the government has no authority to pursue eGovernment as a whole, that this is a serious matter for the future, both in the field of data protection and in the area of public communication with public administration as such, and that it would be worth having someone like that here. We, as a committee on the public administration, have called, even made it clear by resolution that we want someone who actually will have the support of the Prime Minister to resolve such oppositions of the ministries to provide each other with data and protect each other in the spirit of the principle that a citizen should only give information to the state once, then whether the state works with it as it can, so that a citizen who is confronted daily and is treated daily by a number of bureaucratic acts, especially for anyone who is doing something, on it we are taking more and more and more - all obligations, documents, exceptions, regulations, taxes, etc. This man has to spend a lot of time on all these things. Instead of taking time to make a living, he spends time fulfilling the conditions imposed on him by the State. Our goal should be to have someone here who will be able to present a clear vision, and we don't have one. The Home Secretary, I think it's time to see it, either he doesn't have time for it, or it's not his priority. Either he's worried about other things - immigrants, I don't know, the police, etc. - but that it would read here as an important priority of eGovernment, from the activities of the Ministry of the Interior, certainly not. Don't let the Minister be mad at me, but I think he is. As a committee, we have done everything we can to read the experiences that are in other countries. Estonia mentioned a lot. In Estonia, some things are outdated as well, because IT technologies, as has already been said here, are moving quite quickly forward, but also in Slovakia, when you go to see how they work with the citizen data, they are much better off than we are. The will of Members of the Chamber of Deputies across the political spectrum was to have at least something to move on. I respect that very much that the Chairman of the Economic Committee has an opinion on this as an expert in this area, but he has not been able to convince others that, in short, instead of pulling wires for classical phones, we are thinking more about the fact that mobile phones already exist, that these investments are simply needed. But if it doesn't work out, the result is either it's going to be something or it's going to be nothing at all. I am not quite sure, although I will also try to accommodate you in this for myself, to return the proposal to the second reading, that we will be able to adjust the law so that what you are here for, through the President, Mr Pilný, points out that this will change. And by that, I mean, we can change the law in a matter of weeks so that it can be read from the ID on that smartphone or iPad or something like that in that spirit. If we can do this, I'm sure we're ready to support it. So much for myself. It's a shame that we're actually talking about things we were supposed to talk about two years ago at the end of the term. And to be able to follow us all, no matter how much I'm an opposition MP, at least there could have been something. There's practically nothing here until now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-002-221.u55	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Minister chovanec claims priority rights. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-002-221.u56	I forgot to add a few things to my colleague Pilný through you. We've spent hours with our experts, or experts from the Home Office, with him, and hours of debate. Please, it's not like we're not trying to lead this debate, to discuss it, to convince it. Looking for a way, looking for arguments. And after hours and hours of debate, we didn't move anywhere. And that's life, too. I just think that the legislative process has certain principles. The principle is that the committees are going through it. And if this proposal is so bad, the Committee of Economics, or others, should have stopped it. I am making a proposal today to return to second reading, not because we as the Ministry of the Interior want to change our proposals, but so that the ANO movement and colleague Pilný have a chance to prepare a comprehensive amendment. That's the main reason. We want people to have an I.D. with an electronic chip. We want it to be free. We want people's travel documents and other things to be issued differently, which is what the proposal contains. It is up to you, then, to convince the Chamber of Deputies that the solution you are proposing is functional and can be implemented. There's only one thing I want to point out. I checked out those contactless chip cards. Supposedly, the whole of Europe is retreating from them. They are really very much introduced in the Czech Republic. But supposedly, these cards only work with small amounts of money. [[A note from the diaper.]] He can't do that, because the identification isn't safe enough. And esteemed colleagues, if we want people to control from the comfort of their home using an electronic ID card with an operation chip towards the state, the state must absolutely guarantee that the citizen concerned is communicating with it or with the municipality. That the identity isn't portable. Because when there's a lawsuit that she's been abused, the state will pay for the damage that people will incur. So please don't blame us for being conservative. We just want to keep the principle of security and security of these transmissions in order to cover the state. This means that there will be no massive damage to the state in subsequent litigation. Once again, I ask the Chamber of Deputies to return this proposal to second reading, and I call on Mr Pilný, the President, and the IT experts, to prepare a comprehensive amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-002-221.u57	Thank you, Minister. Next up, Vice-President Vojtěch Filip is registered with priority rights. Mr Klán duly applied for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-002-221.u58	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs and gentlemen, in that case, however, we must decide on some timetable for the adoption of the returned bill, because the Minister said here, we are in a dangerous situation indeed since about 2010, respectively. 2011 when he started to pay, forgive me, a slightly demented bill on the Civil Cards Act, which was once submitted by former Interior Minister Radek John here. And it really got into such a difficult situation after they started to pay those IDs without data, that the danger that the Home Secretary is talking about is huge. We will basically be responsible for the damage caused by the state by the fact that documents do not indicate that the person signing a contract is self-righteous, that it is not limited to legal acts and that we do not actually create the white horses as the state. It's just not funny. So before I raise my hand to go back to second reading, because I really don't think that's possible. That's why I said it in that de facto remark, I thought I wouldn't talk anymore. And I really gave it to you in June 2014, because I realize what a huge problem we have in society. And I'd like the minister to step forward one more time. I understand he's called on IT experts to participate - but this is a government bill. I believe that a comprehensive amendment must come from the government. You can do that all you want in the coalition. But this is a matter that the petitioner of the government bill, the Home Office, must present here to this House. And give me a deadline. I didn't even politicize this place. I could be questioning some of the performances that have been affecting political issues here. But this is a serious social problem where the state is responsible for creating white horses. That's what I think... That's why I got away with second reading. And forgive me, I'm in a situation, as the old Czech proverb says, "for goodness' sakes" because I didn't insist on discussing my bill with the government's bill to sort of complete it. It's gonna be even more complex than I could've asked for in the printed papers. So in this regard, I ask the Minister of the Interior very much to say a deadline, a timetable, before we raise his hand, because otherwise I will insist that we discuss the press on 21 February 234. I just can't imagine we're gonna leave it here, and then it's gonna fall under the table. Because what's not going to happen in February, when it comes back from the Senate, there's gonna be a similar debate about how here and when we're gonna meet here... During yesterday's meeting with the Senate leadership, we did not discuss that we were somehow planning a dramatic meeting in September on the laws returned to the Senate and overvoking or not voting to the Senate. And in my opinion, that's basic here. I therefore ask the Minister from this place to tell me some timetable as to how the comprehensive amendment would be prepared to meet those modern standards. I am not at all opposed to making it as modern as possible to have as long a time range as possible, but in this respect, any delay means that we are creating a bigger and bigger problem and more time for those who can, and some also want to. So that's my statement on this matter. And I think that's what Stanjura said, that let's talk about the matter here, not ideologically, because it really doesn't make any sense about whether or not the PC was like this. I could talk about how long ago we had RC21 at the National Sfinx, but that's irrelevant. It just doesn't really belong here, and I think this is a matter of fact that we have to deal with. It's up to us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-002-221.u59	Thank you. Minister chovanec claims priority rights. Anyway, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-002-221.u60	I thank President Filip for what he said here, because, of course, the law has other attributes where we correct certain past mistakes that need to be corrected very quickly. We now have to assess what is necessary and necessary from the Home Office, because we really need to heal some of the stories from the past. I have just spoken with Mr Pilný, through the President, I am informing you of this. And he told me that he had a very simple proposal to de facto compose the chipless course or contactless course of communication. It is a great pity that the YES movement, or Mr Pilný, did not read the second reading as their own amendment, and we could have saved this debate. Don't be mad at me, I'm getting more and more impressed that the debate isn't correct, but so be it. I guess we have to accept that. There's an election coming up. That means, President Filip, through Mr President, I think that there is nothing to prevent this from returning to second reading, at the next meeting to renegotiate the law. I assume that colleagues from YES or Mr Pilný will read the proposal they have informed me of, and the House will decide by voting. In the meantime, I will prepare a certain - I do not say crisis - scenario, but certain fragments of this need the state and I will get to know the House in detail about what is absolutely necessary to accept in order to heal the mistakes of the past. That's what I think is correct, even though the debate doesn't seem right to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-002-221.u61	Thank you. In fact, Mr Pilný is reporting. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-002-221.u62	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to thank President Filip, who rightly pointed out here that this is a government proposal and that his correction, which seems necessary, should be based not on the amateur efforts of the Members who will be made at the last minute, but, above all, on the fact that the lawyers of the Ministry of the Interior will deal with this. I think the adjustment, which would be simple, would move it a hundred miles forward, put it on ID, not the outdated chip, but the contactless chip, would just solve it. But I'm not a lawyer, so I don't know in which sections and how it should be reflected. This adjustment is very simple and we are 100 miles ahead. But it's a government law, and the Home Office should stand up to it. I am perfectly in line with President Filip on this. I'm not a lawyer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-002-221.u63	Thank you. The Minister shall be given priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-002-221.u64	I don't understand how the Home Office is supposed to sign up for a proposal that they don't agree with. It's just not possible. We have to guarantee the security of their transmissions for the state. If we are not convinced that this transmission is safe, do not ask us to compose amendments to this legislation. You give them to me. Every Member has a chance to make an amendment. In second reading, there will be a chance, prep him. I can offer my colleague Pilný cooperation with the lawyers of the Ministry of the Interior, but on his proposal. Not the Home Office's proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-002-221.u65	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by Mr Chalupa. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-002-221.u66	Thank you for your word. I won't keep you long. Like asking a Member who has two or three assistants to prepare a law that has the scope of this law, and we have a ministry here, an executive who rules hundreds of officials - what are we playing at here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-002-221.u67	Thank you, too. No factual comment is registered. With priority rights, Mr. Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-002-221.u68	Could I please ask the honourable colleague Chalupa, through the President, if he is not already chairman of the Economic Committee? No. And you're not able to put this simple proposal on two paragraphs together? So I guarantee here that, legally speaking, we will strengthen the position of a colleague, we will do our utmost to make it legally okay. But it's gonna be his proposal that he's gonna read. Don't ask the Home Office to process a proposal they don't agree with. It's just not possible. We will not guarantee the security of transfers that are not safe, and we will not face here, I will not face criticism in two in three years, when it works, that there is an abuse of identity, that there is litigation, damage to the state in hundreds of millions of crowns that we will pay. And again, it is a great pity, colleagues from the ANO movement, that you did not debate this with Mrs Vildumetzová. And I'm standing behind her here. Because we really need to defend the state and security of transmissions. I understand it's easier without contact, but it's a matter of action towards the state where the person has to identify it as being him. Some of these actions are irreversible or complexly reversible. That's what this is about. It's not a kid's game. That's the state, please nicely. Think about it at last.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-002-221.u69	Thank you. And now, therefore, the duly registered Member of the Klán. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-002-221.u70	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I will still respond a little bit here to the ongoing debate, especially the Minister. He's right. Just if anyone wants to make a difference, make a comprehensive amendment. But I'm sorry that when we were discussing it on the committees, why it wasn't put there long ago. It's just that it's always just like talking in the wind, like we don't like it, it's just outdated, and it's just problematic. But this state really needs to secure the data transfer. He's telling the minister right here. It's not some kid's game, some contactless stuff. I was here pointing out that I don't have a contactless credit card either. I don't just have it for safety, just for safety, because I'm afraid it's going to be abused. That's why I normally have a classic, where I have to just enter the simple PIN with the payment. I don't really believe that much in security. That's why it's necessary for the Ministry to break the law on the electronic identity, which should be the first thing, these things. This also needs to be prepared. But I say, I have a reasonable concern here that when it ends up back at second reading, and I don't believe much that the YES movement would come up with any complex amendment, that's what I'm saying for myself here, I don't believe it. 'Cause it feels to me like they're crashes, they're just like tearing down everything and at third reading. And if I have enough time to do it in three years, then I'm just gonna tear this place down pretty good and make fun of it, and then I'm gonna be amazing that I told you. I told you, it just can't work. Just try to think about it. It's perfectly simple. But as I say, if we still want to make it to the end of the term, which we don't really have much to say about that time, then it really has to be done best within a month, everything, so that we can discuss everything and move on. But I say, I will be very interested in what this comprehensive amendment will look like. Once again, we are going the way of popular creativity, when the Ministry of the Interior prepares the comprehensive amendment itself from its workshop, because it really has the apparatus behind it, and it has the officials behind it, and it can actually write it, even the analysis of the impact of RIA, it can affect everything, because the parliamentary initiative will never catch up with this if it is really about the impact on society. And I.D.s and their change are really an impact on society, and it's still gonna be a big problem. That's why I'm saying we need to start doing something about it. But crashing something here, where we've all been involved across the political spectrum, I think it's a mistake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-002-221.u71	Thank you, too. Mr Grospič, who is now duly applied for. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-002-221.u72	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would like to point out here, ladies and gentlemen, that, in the Chamber of Deputies, in the second reading, there is Act 234, which is a Member's bill, but which also concerns civil documents, and which has never actually been negotiated in this House during this parliamentary term. Maybe if that had happened, we'd have saved ourselves the press annabasis of today's 928 and the disputes about whether to reject the proposal, approve it, or return it to second reading. I would just like to point out that the amendments that have been read and which we should be voting on today are almost 25, with the fact that this is also evidence of something. It is not a unique practice, it is a practice that is very often found in an ever-increasing number of government bills, when these laws are presented to the Chamber of Deputies, then passed through first reading and are released into semi-finished committees, and it is already known in advance that they will be diametrically changed, that so-called complex amendments will be read to them, which will be processed again by the Resor ministries, adopted by someone, and included in other and other amendments. I wonder if such a serious document, such as a citizen's ID, as serious an assessment from the point of view of electronic chips, which concerns the protection of personal data of every citizen of the Czech Republic, is correct. If the Chamber of Deputies even considers and conceives the safety of its citizens. We have been going through a rather extensive discussion this week on the topic of security, on the topic of terrorism, on the topic of population protection, on the protection of the national borders of the Czech Republic, and, on the other hand, we are unable to guarantee that the basic record to be contained in the ID card will be sufficiently protected and will be able to fulfil these purposes as an initial act of protection of a citizen of the Czech Republic. In that sense, I don't know. I don't think rejecting that law would really be right. Returning it to second reading seems like a viable path. I am sorry that this will probably again require a completely new comprehensive proposal from the Ministry of the Interior, and then I ask what this government really wants, this government coalition and the Ministry of the Interior. Why, in fact, did the original bill come to the Chamber of Deputies when it suspected or could have suspected that he would probably be faced with this painful fate and his discussion would be very complicated. I've got a problem with it myself, I have to admit. I'll support the return to second reading. I will support him with his teeth closed, saying that it should be such a warning that, in the rest of the parliamentary term, we should at least avoid the government's bills of similar scenarios. And we're going to talk about the same thing with those laws that are included in today's hearing. At least with the Civil Service Act, where we touch exactly the same way that the government and government elects when submitting these laws to the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-002-221.u73	I thank you and ask if anyone else is joining the debate. I don't see any more applications. If so, in that case, I am ending the debate and I am asking whether the appellant or the rapporteur wants to take the final floor. The Minister does not want the final word, nor does the rapporteur. In that case, we shall proceed to the vote. I'll call in a colleague and a co-worker from the lobby. First of all, we have two votes ahead of us. We will vote in the first case on the repetition of second reading and then we will vote on the motion for rejection. [[Off-the-Mike briefing.]] After consultation, as the proposals have been made, we should first vote on the motion for rejection and then on the proposal for repayment. This is how the proposals were made. First of all, we shall put to the vote to reject this proposal. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of rejection, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 329, 147 Members and Members registered, for proposal 9, against 98. This proposal was rejected. We will now vote on the repetition of second reading. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It is a vote with order number 330, 147 Members and Members registered, for proposal 131, against 3. This proposal was adopted. I note that we have returned the bill to second reading. I thank you and end the discussion of this point. I'm still Mr. Kořenek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-002-221.u74	Thank you, Mr President. I'm just here for the tape. I voted no in the 329 vote, and I have a yes. I'm not questioning the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-002-221.u75	I thank you and open up another point in today's meeting and that is
