ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-20-ps2013-054-08-005-049.u1	49. Government bill amending Act No. 256/2001 Coll., on burial and amending certain laws, as amended, and other related laws /German press 954/ - first reading We discussed this House press on Wednesday, 18 January, when we interrupted the general debate. I would like to see Karla Šlechtová and Mr Ladislav Okleštěk take the position at the rapporteur's table. I ask the Minister or the rapporteur if you want to take the floor at this point. I don't see interest. Okay. So we will now continue with the general debate that I am opening up here. I'm registering several applications. The first is Mrs Matušovská. Mr. Okamura will be ready and... Mrs Matušovská apologizes today, thank you. Mr Okamura should now speak in the debate. He's not here. [[The noise in the hall.]] I'm going to ask you, my colleagues, to keep my voice down, to understand as well as you who are discussing here. Another duly signed up is Mrs Halíková. Mr Grospič will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-20-ps2013-054-08-005-049.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear members of the government, colleagues and fellow Members. As the Vice-President said, we are continuing the general debate on the government bill on burial. Let me draw your attention to the fact, however, that, in addition to the current draft in the Chamber of Deputies, we have two other House prints on the subject, this time the MPs, which both relate to the same subject. [[12.00 hours]] It is the House Press 793 and the House Press 707. On Wednesday, when this topic was discussed on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, these printings were included in a row, and I therefore assumed and wanted to propose that we also have a debate on all these Parliamentary papers simultaneously, because they concern the same issue. This is not the case today. So I would like to draw attention to the fact that if, after the first reading today, we release this law to the reading of the second and, as proposed, will be ordered to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, then it is a great assumption that colleagues who have applied their proposals in the Houses of thousands that I have mentioned, that is, 793 and 707, will propose their amendments and we will continue to discuss them in the House of Commons. I don't know if this is the happiest solution, but I'd say very, very likely. It is understandable that, from the point of view of compensation law, the Ministry of Regional Development submits a draft law on burial. Let me just remind you that this law is one of the three which, Minister through Mr President, you have referred to as one of the three laws that will be central to the work of the Ministry of Regional Development for this term. When you introduced this law, you also said that the aim of the law is to introduce public control and to align the 2002 law with changes in the field of civil, health, social services and specialized training for licensed trades. Hence, in good order and certainly in custody, the last substantive amendment to the Funeral Law was adopted ten years ago and much has changed since then. That is why I expected, perhaps with me and other colleagues, that the bill presented would be somewhat more complex than what we have at this moment in our parliamentary benches. I know that there have been a number of discussions on the Ministry of Regional Development with those who deal with this issue in practice, whether it is the Funeral Association in the Czech Republic, the Funeral Services Association, or the Union of Funeral Services. However, I must say in this context that, in particular, the Funeral Association in the Czech Republic, in close cooperation with the Funeral Services Association, it has long been at the Ministry of Regional Development and already in December 2015 the professional public represented in these two associations submitted a proposal to the Ministry for an amendment with the conviction that its content will be further discussed and will be part of the proposed bill. At present, however, it seems that none of what these experts have proposed is contained in the bill. So I'm asking, and I'm asking, please, the Minister, to explain to us why that is and what actually happened. I would hate to see these experts from practice come to the impression in the Chamber of Deputies that the Ministry is only dealing with the Union of Funeral Services and that other professional public has somehow passed away. I would also like to draw attention to one problem and at the same time ask the Minister to explain to the Chamber of Deputies how it is actually with the legal obligation to care for municipalities for cemeteries, which are mostly property of municipalities, municipalities of course care for them, but also cemeteries, memorial places and burial places that are not the property of the municipality. And according to some experts, we have a situation in the Czech Republic where municipalities as local government corporations are legally imposed, yes, to take care of these places, which are often private property. Therefore, I would expect especially after the adoption of Law No. 428/2012 by this Chamber of Deputies, I remind you that this is a law on property settlement with churches and religious societies, as amended, that the present amendment will also deal with this, so that we do not impose obligations on the municipalities, and therefore the costs which I do not think are due to them. In fact, the current legislation establishes the absurdity of the situation by allowing the free decision of the owner to transfer the obligation to the municipality to take care of the matter, i.e. the cemetery, but at the same time to retain its ownership and to have it refined by public means, which in my view is not right. And if the funeral law was open, then I would really assume that all these irregularities will be resolved by one law. Therefore, I would like to ask for an explanation and answers to the questions I have asked. I will, therefore, repeat that I am prepared and I presume that also my fellow Members, who have submitted the legislative proposals in relation to burial, will either apply them as amendments in the second reading and, if we do not have answers to the problems I have raised and which I have referred to, then I will consider whether, in a detailed debate, I will propose that the law be recast. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-20-ps2013-054-08-005-049.u3	Good noon, ladies and gentlemen. That was Mrs Milana Halíková. Before we continue the debate with Mr Stanislav Grospič's speech, I will read Mr Petr Adam's apology at 12 o'clock for personal reasons. Mr Stanislav Grospič, Mr Lukáš Pleticha will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-20-ps2013-054-08-005-049.u4	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear members of the government, dear colleagues, I confess that this subject, however connected with human life and does not avoid any of us, is not much of an area that I would deal with or which would be of high interest to me. However, in this context, I have been asked to draw attention here to some facts. In this context, I would first like to quote a part of the report by the Czech Trade Inspection Authority, which was carried out in its partial evaluation in the second quarter of last year, that is to say in 2016, when it is mentioned at the outset that burial is a sensitive area of services in which no one would expect dishonest conduct, in these situations the survivors are affected by the loss of a loved one and are aware of possible non-compliance with the services provided separately personally. [[12.10 hours]] However, in the second quarter of 2016, the Czech Trade Inspection Authority carried out 95 inspections, of which 50 percent of the funeral service providers failed to comply with the legislation. Most often this was a violation of the obligation to inform consumers about the price of sold products and services or not to issue a written confirmation of receipt of the order, for which the Czech Trade Inspection finally imposed a total of 41 fines in the total value of CZK 73,000. In this context, I would like to say that I consider this law and its presentation to be quite necessary, because it is an area that has a great reach for every person's life. If I were to allow myself to continue, the Czech Trade Inspection Authority's inspection further mentions that 95 funeral service providers throughout the Czech Republic took place between 1 April 2016 and 30 April 2016. 6. 2016 and that these checks were aimed at complying with the obligations of sellers arising from generally binding legislation in the supply and provision of funeral services and obligations under Act 634/1992 Coll., on Consumer Protection, following other laws, in particular the Funeral Law. So, in the reference period, it was again found by individual inspectors that in 46 cases, which represented almost 50 percent of the total number of 95 checks, there were errors in this area. I would also like to mention the second circumstances in this context. Like many of you, we have been approached by various operators of funeral association services. I would like to remind you here that from 2011 the Funeral Association in the Czech Republic and Dr. Rambousek prepared the documentation for the amendment in question in close cooperation with the Association of Funeral Services of the Czech Republic and from 2013 to 2015 worked hard on its wording, especially in the professional public in this sense the concept of burial. In December 2015, the professional public proved to have submitted a proposal to the Ministry for its amendment with the subject that it would be discussed. However, I was told that the opposite was true. The Ministry has prepared its amendment, which was to be discussed, and actually today we have it on the table, albeit probably in a modified form, and I would like to point out that it was in this context that the Ministry of Regional Development and the Minister asked about certain funeral services and crematoriums, which were provided outside mainly by the Union of Funeral Services, which the other professional funeral public rightly criticised. It is also the case that, for their apparent circumvention of the Funeral Act consisting, for example, of the location of the funeral service establishment in the health care provider's premises or abuse of a dominant position, so-called. cremation tourism, when it exports the deceased to the crematorium through half of the Republic in trucks in the number of about 30 or more to cremation into its crematorium, at the expense of other crematoriums, and in addition this ministerial amendment is supposed to have an impact on the functioning of the integrated rescue system according to regional crisis plans, as funeral services will no longer have to have the prescribed vehicle and cooling equipment necessary for emergencies, and some crematoriums can even close because they will not have anything to incinerate due to the aforementioned cremation tourism. A separate chapter is the case of the burial of fruits, where the potential possibility of tunneling the public budget by means of welfare benefits for the burial of the dead has been revealed. In this context, I would like to ask the Minister whether this is a legitimate claim or whether it is not based on the truth and is merely an expression of the opinion of a segment of service providers in this area, because this could significantly affect the negotiation of this law and, of course, the loading of amendments that could affect this very humanely sensitive area at its final stage. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-20-ps2013-054-08-005-049.u5	I thank Mr Stanislav Grospič. At this point, Mr Lukáš Pleticha will take the last duly entered into the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-20-ps2013-054-08-005-049.u6	Thank you. Mr President, dear government, colleagues, I will not repeat what has already been said. I will only come forward with a few suggestions, to whom to further order this press, because according to how this amendment of the law tries to precise some things, so I am convinced that there has not been a good cooperation with the departments of at least culture and defence, because, for example, § 4 Dealing with remains, and according to the modification, which on one side tries to limit exhibitions of the type of bodies, but also falls into museums, galleries, skeletons where various historical remains are exposed, and I do not know how today the National Museum will need to obtain the approval of a related Avar warrior from the Iron or Bronze era. So I think that this law should take care of the Committee on Science, Education and Culture, as well as the Committee on Defence, because I do not see much time being processed, for example, on the issue of war graves, or I am not convinced that the transport of the remains of soldiers from the mission is in accordance with this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-20-ps2013-054-08-005-049.u7	I thank Mr Lukáš Pletich and ask if anyone is joining the debate. The rapporteur. Of course. In the debate, not with the final word. In the debate. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-20-ps2013-054-08-005-049.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I just want to report that in a detailed debate, I will propose a reduction of the time limit for committee discussions to 30 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-20-ps2013-054-08-005-049.u9	Yes, Mr Ladislav Okleštěk still in the general debate. I don't see anyone else. I'm done with the general debate. I'm asking the secretary if he's interested in the final word. Please. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-20-ps2013-054-08-005-049.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank the Chamber of Deputies for putting this press at the meeting today. I will make a very general statement about some of the things that have fallen here. I see them as suggestions for committees. A few things. I am aware, and I said it on Wednesday, that you have been addressed by various interest groups, which, also here in the statements by the Members who have spoken, has appeared in some of them. However, I would like to respond that when it comes to cooperation with the Funeral Association, the Funeral Services Association, the Union of Funerals, the Association of Regions, the Union of Cities and Communities, crematoria and others, the Ministry of Regional Development has, of course, cooperated with all of them. For example, I hold a letter in my hand where the Chairman of the Funeral Association asks me not to communicate with the Funeral Services Association, because they do not consider them proper partners, which is probably neglected to tell anyone here. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] If we look at the opposing proposals that appear in the ranks that are probably given to you by the Funeral Services Association, for example, the first proposal is that the Ministry of Regional Development should not be a supervisory authority in this area. That's what we're introducing, please, with this novel. So, of course, we cannot agree with this, and perhaps thanks to this statement, we will all think together about how strong the interests of those who address you as legislators are. I'm ready to defend with my team everything that's part of the amendment to the Funeral Act. The law that is being presented to you here is a compromise - a compromise! - between the professional public, regions, cities and the Ministry of Regional Development. The Ministry certainly didn't write an amendment at the administrative level -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-20-ps2013-054-08-005-049.u11	Madam Secretary, I will interrupt you for a moment and ask the House for peace! I would ask that the discussions which do not relate to the subject matter of the negotiations be fundamentally in the foyer and that you let the Minister in a dignified environment say her final word. It's nothing simple, the standard, and I think it's important that we hear the secretary's final words in peace. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-20-ps2013-054-08-005-049.u12	Thank you, Mr President, I appreciate that. What was quoted here, a press release from the Czech Trade Inspection Authority, I quoted to you on Wednesday, the report is out. If you look - given that I have the final word, I would mention here how many funeral services it operates or has been sanctioned. For example, in the Central Bohemia Region and the capital of Prague, it is 20 percent controlled. The most error - and please listen now, through Mr President - is the Ústecký and Liberecký Region, 80 percent of the audited funerals had errors. 80 percent! Those are the funerals that call you, by the way, with the changelings. Furthermore Plzeňský and Karlovarský kraj 30 %, Jihočeský and Vysočina 45 percent error, South Moravian and Zlinský 41 percent error, Moravskoslezský and Olomoucký, they are second, 62 percent. You know, this is the only thing that should tell us all how the situation is addressed or not addressed. I will allow myself here because I am surprised by the proposals that have fallen here to convey a response to the mass graves. The Senate has ordered the Ministry of Regional Development without the Ministry of Regional Development to start dealing with this issue, and we are analysing it at this point. They would have to change certain laws at the Ministry of Defense and the Ministry of Culture. It's not that there was no cooperation, it's false information. I am now addressing Mr Pleticha through the President. However, at this point, we are analyzing it, and the question is really, what department is it competent for? I'm not defending myself. The question is whether it belongs to this novel, however, for example. On Monday, my team is going to visit nine mass graves. On Monday I also drive around the crematorium in Tábor, České Budějovice and go to Blatná and to the funeral service in South Bohemia, where I will check it myself, without authority, because I do not yet have it. So here's where I want to say we're really doing our best. And ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, none of you have dealt with this issue. Forgive me if it does not sound arrogant, as I do. I've circled the crematorium, I've circled several funeral services, I've been in the process from A to Z. I've let the coffin and the deceased go to sleep, I've seen the iron, I've gone to see what comes out of it through the filters. I've been checking the furnace technology that's in the crematoriums, so really, believe me, there are details that we shouldn't be completely discussing here, because citizens are listening to us. So everything you have to say, including all those amendments that have given you funeral services or associations or the Funeral Services Association, we can discuss on committees. I'll give you all the details we have. However, I am really in favour of not having been discussed with anyone. None of you expected this bill to pass without lobbying interest groups. And now it's here, and I'm willing to explain to all of you in the committees to which this law will be attributed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-20-ps2013-054-08-005-049.u13	I thank the Minister for her final word. And I really ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to conduct the other debates in the foyer. I'm serious! Thank you. Is the rapporteur interested in the final word? rapporteur. There's no interest in the final word. Okay. In that case, we'll continue. Since there was no motion for rejection or a proposal for revision, it was conditional in the event that it would not be answered, I think the honourable Member's reply was received, so we can deal with the proposal for a commandment to committees for discussion. We'll decide on the guarantee committee first. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone else suggest a committee as a guarantee? Please, madam. [[Member of the War: Not a guarantee.]] Okay. If there is no other proposal, then we can vote on the guarantee committee. Who is in favour of the proposal being ordered to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a guarantee committee? I've started voting 257, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 257. 136 for 112 present, against no one. The Guarantee Committee shall be the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to other committees. Mrs Válková has applied to the next committee, a proposal is likely to be made. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-20-ps2013-054-08-005-049.u14	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I was too active. I just didn't want the constitutional committee to be forgotten, because some of these provisions might be in case she didn't look after herself, not completely conformed to the new Civil Code. In order to rule out this disconformity and to look at some of the context in about three thematic areas that govern the law on burial, virtually. his proposal, so I recommend the constitutional committee as one of the other committees to which this press will be ordered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-20-ps2013-054-08-005-049.u15	A colleague of Pleticha. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-20-ps2013-054-08-005-049.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, I must first turn against the Minister's words. I don't know if museums are the lobbyist groups she mentioned here, or the Department of Defense, a matter like state funerals, etc. On the lavatory. You can't do that by law, a state funeral on a cannon loaf, it's not a funeral car. Such imperfections are simply there. So I propose that this law be also imposed on the Committee on Defence and the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-20-ps2013-054-08-005-049.u17	Well, thank you, that was three other suggestions. We will decide in the vote on the commandment. No one else is checking in. As for the shortening, that was the debate. [[Shouting and noise in the hall.]] Please don't shout at yourself. Who agrees that the proposal should be directed to the Constitutional Legal Committee? I started voting number 258. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 258. Of the 137 present for 109, versus 2. The motion was accepted. We will now decide in the vote number 259 on the commandment of the Defence Committee. I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 259. From the present 137 for 52, against 46. The motion was not accepted. Now we will decide on the commandment of the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, in the vote number 260, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 260. Of the 137 present for 33, versus 40. The motion was not accepted. A colleague of Syblík's checked in? It's not like that. Now, the proposal tabled by the rapporteur to shorten the time limit for discussion to 30 days. We'll decide the number in the vote... Excuse me, I'll sign you all out, I'll ask you for a new registration, please log in with your I.D. cards. Once the number of applicants has settled, we will decide to shorten the time limit for committee discussions to 30 days. I've started voting number 261, and I'm asking who's in favour of shortening the deadline. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 261. Of the present 117 for 70, against 32. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal was further directed to the Committee of Constitutional Law and the deadline for discussion for both the Committee of Guarantee, the Committee of Public Administration and Regional Development, and the Committee of Constitutional Law were reduced to 30 days. Thank you, Minister, thank you to the rapporteur and I conclude with paragraph 49. [[12.30 hours]] The next item is:
