ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-11-ps2013-059-05-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening another session of the 59th session of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome to all of you. I'd like you all to sign up with ID cards and, if necessary, let me know who's applying for a replacement card. Today, Mr Kučera will vote with a replacement card, it's card number 71. I agree that the following Members asked to apologise for their absence at today's meeting: Mr Pavel Antonín without giving any reason, Miloš Babiš for reasons of foreign travel, Margita Balaštíková for reasons of work, Robin Böhnisch for family reasons, Jana Černochová for personal reasons, René Číp for health reasons, Jan Farský for personal Rykala, Miroslav Grebeníček for Schwarzenberg of foreign travel, Stanislav Grospič for personal Volný, Gabriela Hubáčková for health reasons, Jitka Chalánková for health reasons, Bohuslav Chalupa for health reasons, Miloslav Janulík for reasons of foreign travel, David Kádner for Karel of work, Jana Lorencová for health reasons, Josef Nekl for personal Květa, Miroslava Němcová for Markéta of health Wernerová, Igor Nyk for Zemánek of health reasons, Ladislav Okleštěk for family reasons, Jiří Petrů for health Anna, Mr. The following members of the government also apologize today: Pavel Bělobrádek until 15.00 hours for work reasons, Minister Jiří Havlíček for reasons of foreign travel, Minister Milan chovanec for reasons of employment, Minister Marian Jurečka for reasons of employment, Minister Miloslav Ludvík for reasons of employment, Minister Michaela Marksová for reasons of employment, Minister Robert Pelikán for reasons of employment, Minister Karla Šlechtová for reasons of employment and Minister Stanislav Štech from 16.00 hours for working reasons. Ladies and gentlemen, before we proceed to the next meeting, allow me to allow the new colleague to take a parliamentary vow. We will now proceed to the pledge of a new Member for Mr Ladislav Šincl. I ask you, my fellow Members, to keep it down. First, I will ask Vice-President Martin Plíšek to introduce us to the steps he has taken, and then he has read the Constitution of the prescribed promise that the new Member will place in the hands of the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-11-ps2013-059-05-000-000.u2	I will do my best, my dear colleagues, when you stand, so that it is not too long, although I must, of course, make an announcement as to what the mandate and immune committee has come to today. On Friday 30 June, a Member of the Chamber of Deputies, Ladislav Šincl, said goodbye to whom the mandate for membership of the Radio and Television Council, which is incompatible with the mandate of the Member under the Radio and Television Broadcasting Act, expired the following day. The alternate shall take over the mandate of the Member for whom the alternate shall take up his duties at the moment of termination of the mandate of the Member and the alternate shall take up his vacant mandate in the order of the results of the elections to the Chamber of Deputies. As a result of the death, the first replacement died, and therefore, the President of the Chamber of Deputies, Dr. Barbora Jelonková, who handed over today the certificate of the establishment of the mandate, called for the Czech Social Democratic Party's vacant mandate. The mandate and immunity committee adopted a resolution at its meeting today that on 10 November 2016 the first member of the ČSSD for the Region of Moravian-Silesian engineer Zdeňko Osmančík, born 13 November 1953, ceased to function in accordance with the provisions of Section 6 para. (d) the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. Second, on 1 July 2017, the mandate of the Member of the Chamber of Deputies of the Engineer Ladislav Šincl, born on 20 September 1965, expired within the meaning of the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure Act. Finally, on 1 July 2017, the mandate of a Member of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic was established by Dr Barbořa Jelonková, born 14 August 1972. With this resolution, I was asked to introduce the Chamber of Deputies. In accordance with the provisions of Section 4 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, the Chamber of Deputies shall take the prescribed oath into the hands of the President of the Chamber of Deputies. The Member is already present, so I will read the Member's pledge.
