ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-23-ps2013-057-05-001-346.u1	346. Statement by the Chamber of Deputies on the UNESCO resolution continuing to politicise the issue of Jerusalem I ask that the appellant of this point, Vice-President Jan Bartošek, take the floor. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-23-ps2013-057-05-001-346.u2	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, last October, the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic approved a resolution in which it protested the decision of the Executive Council of UNESCO, in which the historical link between the Jewish nation, Israel, and the Temple Mountain in Jerusalem was denied. This resolution and its urgency had many reasons. First of all, it was the direct delegation of the state with which the Czech Republic has strong and historical friendships, and second, the general delegation of the entire Western cultural circuit, which derives its foundations, among other things, from events on the Temple Mountain, events that long before the emergence of Islam. Last but not least, this is an ongoing open-ended politicalization of an organization that is primarily responsible for education, science and culture, an organization that, at a time when walking extremists destroy the Buddhist, Christian or other monuments in the name of Islam, should have other work over their heads. Instead, it devotes its attention and energy to attacking the only truly democratic state in the Middle East region and thus indirectly strengthening its enemies, among other things, the enemies who have a shot at us, the entire Western world. A little over six months have passed, and UNESCO is here with another update. On 2 May, the UNESCO Executive Board approved a resolution which once again concerns Israel and challenges one of the fundamental rights of each State. This time, under a strange formula that Israel had no right to "the holy city of Jerusalem, " he suddenly "snatched away " the capital. The formula is so vague that we can be sure that everyone who wants it will interpret it just like this. In this context, it must be recalled that practically the entire democratic world to which we claim does not question Israeli sovereignty over the western part of the city, where, among other things, our partner Kneset is based, where we regularly go to meetings. Again, it is not only an open attack on Israel and its right to exist, but also a flagrant violation of the mandate of UNESCO. For the sake of completeness, it must be added that the list of monuments of shielded organizations includes Jerusalem's Old City and its walls, i.e. no indefinite holy city. In this case, therefore, UNESCO has voluntarily extended its mandate to territories which do not belong to its agenda. The resolution is so controversial that 11 countries of the European Union - I repeat, 11 countries of the European Union - who are represented on the Executive Board, were not willing to stand by and hold the vote according to the proposed joint position. Five of them - Germany, the Netherlands, Italy, Great Britain, Greece and Lithuania - therefore voted against this resolution. The Czech Republic, which is currently not represented in the Executive Committee of UNESCO... in this case, the Chamber of Deputies should not be silent on this development not only because it is another attack on Israel. We can be practically sure that Israel can cope with this situation and finally cope with the stupidity of the executive board's decisions, but, above all, because it strengthens those forces that want to destroy our entire world and our entire way of life, and that this is increasingly writing off the organization that we need more and more. I therefore submit a motion for a resolution from the Chamber of Deputies, which the Czech Republic will take a clear position on the continued politicalization of UNESCO and its attacks on Israel, just in the year we commemorate 100 years since the Balfourův Declaration, 90 years since the visit of Tomáš Garrigu Masaryk, the first head of our state to visit Palestine Jerusalem in the British mandate, or 50 years since Jerusalem was reunited. In a detailed debate, I will then read the motion for a resolution and I would like to ask, Mr President, whether it is possible for Mr Šrámek to be rapporteur in agreement with this point. So much for opening a point for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-23-ps2013-057-05-001-346.u3	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. It is certainly possible, for I am initiating a general debate, which Mr Pavel Šrámek was the first to enter. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-23-ps2013-057-05-001-346.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me, too, to comment on today's House resolution, which is clearly defined in the UNESCO Resolution. Regular UNESCO resolutions have confirmed that this UN organisation repeatedly exceeds its mandate by expressing its views on matters of fundamental political importance in a way that stirs emotions and by no means helps to calm the situation in the Middle East towards the peace process. He's literally pouring oil into the fire. The controversy of the resolution also proves that, and this should be alarming for us, which has already been said here that the European Union has not been able to maintain a consensual position and five Member States from 11 represented in the Executive Board have voted against the adoption of the resolution, but the rest has abstained, and Sweden has even been in favour of adoption. I would just like to remind you that today is the culmination of a visit to the new US president in the Middle East. Its aim is to restore the Middle East peace process in order to find solutions to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, in direct talks. The task is ambitious, but it must be supported with all its strength. Of course, one of the key questions will be the question of the status of Jerusalem, the sacred city for Žid, Christians, and Muslims. Regardless of the outcome of these negotiations, we know that Jerusalem will remain the capital of the State of Israel. His sovereignty over Western Jerusalem is not questioned even today by the vast majority of the world's community. All the more striking is the UNESCO approach, the UN organization, which, contrary to its mission, re-politicized this issue by taking Israel's right to its capital. Such an approach only complicates the situation, rather than helping the solution. Moreover, in its approach, it only promotes the growth of anti-Semitism and tensions among people of various religions. It is about as if UNESCO had adopted a resolution that Prague is in no way the capital of the Czech Republic, and all the actions in it would have been invalid, i.e. all decisions such as. our Parliament. I therefore support the motion for a resolution by which the Chamber of Deputies will oppose the UNESCO approach and, at the same time, recommend how to proceed on fundamental issues. It must be clear to all that this resolution does not prejudice the final status of Jerusalem, but it is a contribution of the Czech Republic to an international discussion on this subject in the spirit of the best Czechoslovak and Czech traditions. Moreover, the adoption of this resolution also supports a kind of symbolism. Tonight at St. John's Cathedral. Welcome begins celebrations of the Day of Jerusalem, a holy city for all three religions, which is dated just tomorrow, 24. 5. I would like to ask all of you to adopt this resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-23-ps2013-057-05-001-346.u5	I thank Mr Šrámek and ask him to sit at the rapporteur's table. He is the first to be registered as the rapporteur of this press. Another duly registered member is Mr Daniel Korte. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-23-ps2013-057-05-001-346.u6	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. As has been said, this is the second time in a short time since the Chamber of Deputies here deals with a UNESCO resolution against the State of Israel. This time, the resolution in question declares that Israel has no legislative and administrative authority over the holy city of Jerusalem. So please, let's just remember the facts. In 1949, the UN decided to divide Palestine into the territory of the Jewish State and the Arab State, with Jerusalem as a corpus separatum under international administration. But that never happened. A note on the edge. The resemblance of the division was rather pointless, because the result would be that both states would decompose on three essentially separate enclaves. However, the žid agreed to this proposal and announced the State of Israel on 14 May 1948 with the end of the British mandate, while the Arab rejected the plan and five neighboring Arab countries immediately attacked Israel. The story is known, it's called. The war for independence. The Izraelec have defended themselves, this time or then with the important help of Czechoslovakia, which they still remember with gratitude. The result of this war was that Jordan occupied East Jerusalem and the Old City and the Izraelec were left to its western part, which Ben Gurion declared the capital of the State of Israel a year later. Note two. The capital of its state is decided by the state, and it is none of its business to anybody else. Example. In Germany, after unification, it was decided that Berlin would be its capital, and it is Berlin, whether someone likes it or not, like it didn't seem to like it. Let's move on. The arab behaved like cattle in occupied Old Town, which is their own. They destroyed a large part of the Old Town, broke down the synagogues, paved the pavements and streets with Jewish tombstones, etc. I couldn't find out that UNESCO was then passionately protesting this vandalism and barbarism. And I personally believe that by doing so, the Arab have lost their moral claim to the Old City once and for all. In 1967, the so-called "circumstances" broke out. A six - day war in which the Izraelec pushed the Jordánec out of the Old Town and took over Jerusalem. Since then, 50 years have passed, which we remember tomorrow's Jerusalem Day. For the Old Town it meant the end of destruction, buildings in the Jewish Quarter were gradually renewed and I did not register that žid in the Arab Quarter of the Old Town would behave like Arab in the Jewish Quarter. However, UNESCO feels the need to solve the pseudo-problem of Jerusalem, and although only a few hundred kilometers east of Islam, so-called. The Islamic State, destroying thousands of years of ancient monuments, UNESCO is worried about Jerusalem at the initiative of Muslim countries. So please tell yourself what UNESCO is. What does that shortcut mean? United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization. The United Nations Organization for Education, Science and Culture. Please note that there is no word political. For politics. For politics is an important subject of the work of the UN and its institutions, whether it be the Security Council, the General Assembly, etc., whereas UNESCO is only one of its professional agendas, like the Food and Agriculture Organisation, the World Health Organisation, and it is about fifteen of them, such organizations, therefore it should be devoted to the subject of its activity and should not be responsible for politics. [[15.10 hours]] But it's in vain, it's in vain, it's in vain, as the classic says. For out of 193 countries merged, connected in the UN, there are only about 35 democratics according to our standards. This means that some 160 more or less undemocratic states dictate their will to the rest of the world. From this point of view, I would say that the UN is useless organization and UNESCO is useless on the other side and, to top it all, harmful. Let's get back to the resolution. As I quoted at the outset, it operates with the newly introduced concept of the holy city of Jerusalem, with all the UN documents used the term Old Town. Yes, holy is logically the Old Town, which is the place of three monotheistic religions. But in a vicious verbal interpretation, the concept of a holy city can apply quite well to Jerusalem all, including the capital of the State of Israel. The UNESCO Resolution thus continues the trend that seeks to delegitimize the State of Israel. Israel is the only democratic state in the Middle East region. From this perspective, this attack on Israel can be seen as an attempt to delegate the entire democratic West. And those who do so pave a straight path to Manchester. Ladies and gentlemen, the motion for a resolution by Vice-President Bartošek, which will be read to you in a detailed debate, responds to this indeterminate, hateful, shameful and vicious UNESCO resolution. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like you to remember the Day of Jerusalem tonight, when we will be celebrating a ceremonial meeting in the Cathedral of St. Wenceslas and Vojtěch, to support this proposal with your vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-23-ps2013-057-05-001-346.u7	Thank you, Mr Korte. Another party to the general debate is Mrs Jana Černochová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-23-ps2013-057-05-001-346.u8	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. A lot of what I wanted to tell you at the UNESCO account, my previous speaker, Mr Korte, told you. You may recall that I was standing here before you on October 19, 2016, when I proposed a similar resolution concerning a resolution approved by the Executive Council of the United Nations for Education, Science and Culture. This resolution was under the number 200 EX/PD/DR.25.2REV, which denied the historical link between the Jewish nation and the Wall of Lamentations and the Temple Mountain in Jerusalem. Then to my lovely surprise The Chamber of Deputies adopted this motion for a resolution, rejected the resolution. The resolution was that it expressed its fundamental opposition to the resolution approved, rejecting this resolution, which was carried out in a hateful anti-Israeli spirit, and also passing away not only the Jewish but also the Christian ties to the sacred places in Jerusalem. The wording used contradicts the neutral and peaceful nature of the United Nations, discredits UNESCO and, as a result, strengthens anti-Semitic tendencies internationally. Thirdly, we have accepted that we call on the Government to use all means and opportunities to express the negative opinion of the Czech Republic on this resolution based on long-term friendly relations between the Czech Republic and the State of Israel. At the same time, in paragraph 4, we asked the Government as the Chamber of Deputies not to vote in favour of the resolution in question and protest against the politicalization of UNESCO through the Permanent Delegation of the Czech Republic to UNESCO and through a representative of the Czech Republic on the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations. Yes, this took place on October 19, 2016. Subsequently, part of the delegation of the President of the Chamber of Deputies was Mr Hamáček, where we gave this resolution to our friends, whether from Kneset or to the Prime Minister of Israel. Unfortunately, in the meantime, and I say unfortunately, our government has done nothing. I am sorry, and I am saying this quite frankly, that this resolution does not have one more part that I miss there. Which is not to say that the Civic Democrats' Club will not support this resolution. But we will want to vote on individual proposals separately and we want our proposal to be voted on as well. You know, it was the Civil Democratic Party that proposed this during the 2017 budget, and proposed it to the Ministry of Culture, yes, to the Minister of Culture, who is from the same side as Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Bartošek, who is the draftsman of this resolution, so the Civil Democratic Party proposed to the Ministry of Culture to refuse to pay the UNESCO membership contribution, because it did not come out here, and that, in my view, is the only possible sanction to this organisation that we will simply stop supporting it financially. And if you do not know how much membership of this organization costs us each year in this contribution, for 2017 it, colleagues and colleagues, is 30,195 000 crowns! Members of the government coalition, do you think you would not be able to spend these funds more effectively? The ODS suggested that these funds be transferred to defence and security, specifically we suggested that this be to support cyber security. You didn't vote for our proposal back then. But I believe today and I hope that if I propose this resolution in detail, you will join it today. Because, yes, as the Chamber of Deputies, we can refuse to comment on everything that Bartošek and Mr Čihák have said here - I totally agree with them. [[The rapporteur is a messenger. Scratch]] But on the other hand, it's not enough! The resolution is weak. We really need there to be some repression of this organization. And I think that the only possible repression is actually to do what some other countries have already done, where they have rightly become angry because of the same reason that we are now, that UNESCO is becoming a political organization. For this reason, many countries, including European countries, do not pay UNESCO contributions anymore. So I would expect my fellow government Members to support the extension of this proposal on our proposal, that is to say, to put a request to the government, that the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to stop all payments of the member contributions of the Czech Republic to the UN Organization for Education, Science and Culture of UNESCO from the state budget et cetera. I will then read the resolution in a detailed debate. And if we really want to make a gesture today, not just words, then let's do what I asked you to do in December. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-23-ps2013-057-05-001-346.u9	Thank you. This has been the last one entered into the general debate so far. If no one else is reporting, I am ending the general debate. I'm asking for final words. Not interested. I am opening a detailed debate to which Vice-President Jan Bartošek is reporting. Please, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-23-ps2013-057-05-001-346.u10	Thank you for the floor. I'll read the resolution. "The resolution of the Chamber of Deputies on the UNESCO resolution continues to politicise the issue of Jerusalem. Chamber of Deputies 1. Expresses its fundamental opposition to the decision of the Executive Council of the United Nations for Education, Science and Culture 201 EX/PX/DR.30.1 which explicitly denies Israeli sovereignty over its capital, Jerusalem; 2. rejects this resolution, which confirms the continuous bias and hostile position of UNESCO towards one of its Member States, as well as the unacceptable politicalisation of this organisation, which clearly exceeds its mandate; 3. Calls on the Government to advocate respect for Jerusalem as the capital of the State of Israel, to launch direct negotiations between Izraelec and Palestinec without prior conditions, to support solutions based on the principle of two states for two nations and to oppose such actions by international organisations or common positions of the European Union, which interpret the current situation in a false and misleading way or distort historical facts and ties and which carry a hateful anti-Israeli spirit." Thank you. So much for a motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-23-ps2013-057-05-001-346.u11	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I will ask who else is reporting for a detailed debate. Mrs Černochová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-23-ps2013-057-05-001-346.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to extend the proposed resolution, read here by Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Bartošek, by another point: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to stop all payments of the member contributions of the Czech Republic to the United Nations Organization for Education, Science and Culture from the State Budget this year and to stop these payments in the years to come, if this organisation continues its hateful rhetoric towards the State of Israel and will continue to be subject to politicalisation." [[UNESCO]] Thank you in advance for your support. Indeed, this resolution will have meaning if this passage is there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-23-ps2013-057-05-001-346.u13	Thank you. Please, who else is reporting for a detailed debate? I don't see anybody, so I'm ending the debate in detail. Let me ask you about the final words. Vice-President Bartošek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-23-ps2013-057-05-001-346.u14	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for the debate that has been held and I ask you to support the resolution that I have read.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-23-ps2013-057-05-001-346.u15	The rapporteur? Also. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-23-ps2013-057-05-001-346.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would therefore propose a voting procedure where we would vote separately on the resolution tabled by Vice-President Bartošek and, secondly, on the motion for a resolution by Mrs Černochová. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-23-ps2013-057-05-001-346.u17	Yes, thank you. President Kalousek, with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-23-ps2013-057-05-001-346.u18	Thank you. I would like to declare on behalf of TOP 09 the support for the motion for a resolution that has been made here. I'm going to ask all my colleagues for support because I think we're just approving a notoriety. On the other hand, even if it doesn't go well, let's always try to find something positive in it. If the Chamber of Deputies gave the UNESCO Council the truth and hesitated that Jerusalem was Israel's capital, we Christians could always say in the future that the pán Kristus was crucified by the Izraelec... Sorry... We could say that the pán Kristus was crucified by the Palestinec. But I'd still like to stick to historical facts.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-23-ps2013-057-05-001-346.u19	Thank you. Since the procedure proposal has been made, I'm going to ask if anyone wants to go to the procedure, respectively. whether anyone else has a proposal other than the rapporteur's proposal, i.e. a separate vote on the proposal by Vice-President Bartošek and Mrs Černochová. I don't see another suggestion. I think I'm gonna have to vote on the draft procedure, make it very clear. Initiating vote. I'm asking who agrees with the procedure proposal. Who's against it? - Mr Komárek votes with card number 77. Voting time is 115, registered is 156, for 117, against no one. The draft procedure has been accepted. We will therefore vote first on the motion for a resolution, as presented by Vice-President Bartošek. Perhaps it is not necessary to repeat it, because it was said in a detailed debate. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? It's vote number 116, registered 156, for 112, against 2. This proposal was adopted. In the next vote, we will vote on the motion for a resolution, as proposed by Mrs Černochová. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? It's vote number 117, registered at 157, for 74, against 29. This proposal was not adopted. Mr. Chairman of the ODS Club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-23-ps2013-057-05-001-346.u20	I respect the vote, of course, but I mean. [[Unintelligible]] For the first time, when we took a stand, nothing happened. So how many times are we going to take a disagreeable position and at the same time pay this organization? Does that make sense? He doesn't!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-23-ps2013-057-05-001-346.u21	I'll wait a little longer because I've got an updated vote check... Mr Korte. [[Noise in the hall.]] Colleagues and colleagues, I ask for peace. Mr Korte has something to tell us. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-23-ps2013-057-05-001-346.u22	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. My will was to vote yes. For some mysterious reason, I have a cross on the rocks. I question the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-23-ps2013-057-05-001-346.u23	Yes. This concerns the vote on Mrs Černochová's resolution. Isn't that right? [[Mr Korte agrees.]] Okay. That is an objection to the record of the vote. Yes, I'll check you all out, please, for a new registration. And I am opening the vote on Mr Korte's objection. If you agree to the objection, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? The vote has number 118, registered is 141, for 130, against no one. The motion was accepted. We will therefore repeat the vote on the motion for a resolution by Mrs Černochová. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? It's vote number 119, registered 143, for 82, against 29. This proposal was adopted. [[A round of applause for Members from YES and from the right.]] And since we have exhausted the voting motions for a resolution, with priority rights, Vice-President Bartošek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-23-ps2013-057-05-001-346.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the substance and correctness of the item, just as I thank you for the votes you have supported in the proposed resolutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-23-ps2013-057-05-001-346.u25	Thank you. I'm done with point 346. Let's continue...
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-23-ps2013-057-05-001-346.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was gonna do the same thing. I wanted to thank all my colleagues who supported my proposal very much and very much. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-23-ps2013-057-05-001-346.u27	I'm just pointing out that there is no debate, but thank you. Let's continue with point number
