ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u1	343. Oral inhalation With the participation of verifiers, the ranking was drawn when individual Members first appeared at the Prime Minister, mostly from 14.30 to 16.00, and from 16.00 thereafter at the other members of the Government. The lists of Members are drawn in order. The first draw is Mr Tomio Okamura, who will give his interview to Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka. Mrs Dana Váhalová will be ready. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u2	Dear Prime Minister, the Czech Security Information Service, BIS, has officially announced further funding of Islamists from the Czech Republic. This results from the 2016 Internal Security and Public Order Report, which will be discussed by your government next week. This confirms the full extent of the facts that I have been pointing out alone for a long time. And it's not the first bit of the BIS. On the contrary, the BIS has warned many times about the mutual flows of money from the Czech Republic and the Czech Republic by extremist and Islamist organizations. There are two solutions to this problem ahead, which will burden the security of the Czech Republic for the next decade, if we do not solve it effectively and systematically immediately. The first solution is what our movement of Freedom and Direct Democracy, SPD, has proposed since the beginning, and which your government rejected here in the House for the previous year by voting, i.e. an absolute ban on promoting the rights of Sharia and jihad in the territory of the Czech Republic, an ideology that is against democracy and human rights, and a ban on the stay of people who tend to such ideology. I and our SPD movement insist that Islam is a security risk to our citizens. Or maybe there's a second option that your government is showing. This means that the Czech Republic will accept the quotas for migrants as the Czech MEPs voted. And as we know, you have already adopted the first migrants on the basis of quotas and betrayed most of the citizens. At the same time, you permanently accept Islamic migrants to the Czech Republic on a voluntary basis. For example, citizens of Havířov, Předlic in Ústí nad Labem, Brno and so on, where there are government immigration integration facilities. But it is enough to look in many localities of the Czech Republic only around the street, and it is clear to everyone that it is not about tourists. Your government tolerates the growth and promotion of ideology, i.e. Islam, which denies human rights and democracy in the Czech Republic. Prime Minister, why did you choose a second choice? Why does your government grant permanent residences to Islamic migrants? Why did you and your government reject our proposal to promote Islamic Sharia law, jihad in the territory of the Czech Republic? And talk straight and clear. No one really cares about your constant unspecific excuses and speeches. And why you also rejected our proposal for an amendment to criminal law, which would provide not only promotion of a particular movement, but also ideology.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u3	The time for your question is over, and now is the time for the Prime Minister's answer. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u4	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, have a good afternoon. Let me give you all a warm greeting from this counter. And now I want to address Mr Okamura's interpellation. Mr Okamura mentioned the public section of the Security Information Service report that we will be discussing. I must say that the Security Information Service is here to monitor all such activities on the territory of the Czech Republic, which could in some way endanger the security of our citizens. But it is not just the security of our citizens, because we naturally cooperate and our secret services cooperate with their partner services abroad. There is a standard exchange of information, and I will certainly not say anything surprising, and I will certainly not surprise Mr Okamura when I say that the main weapon in the fight against terrorism is information. Information. We need as much information as possible in time. We need to know what is happening here in the Czech Republic, but we also need to know what is happening in the surrounding states, what is happening in European countries, what is happening in the source countries of migration, the source countries in which the fighters of the Islamic State are moving, and what is happening in transit countries. Therefore, for more than three years, my government has placed great emphasis on strengthening the capacity of our security apparatus. We are not doing this because the number of Muslims in the Czech Republic is growing sharply. It really only grows symbolically. This is not the reason for increasing the number of Muslims in the Czech Republic. The reason why we're increasing our security forces, our intelligence services, the police, the military, is a deterioration in the security situation in the world. We don't want to underestimate anything. One of the first decisions we made after the deterioration of the security situation was to increase the budget of our secret services. It will allow them to strengthen their personnel capacities. It will allow them to improve their technical equipment and to provide information, such as the one quoted by Mr Okamura at the outset of his intervention. That means our government has taken a very radical step, and I can assure you it wasn't something one-time. All of our intelligence services have approved a multi-year outlook in which expenditure increases. This also applies to the Security Information Service, which, of course, plays a key role in terms of the Czech Republic and ensuring the security of citizens in the Czech Republic. I also want to assure Mr Okamura that the Government is regularly informed on the occasion of the meetings of the Security Council of the State or on the occasion of the meetings of the Intelligence Committee on what is taking place on the territory of the Czech Republic and what could be related in any way to the promotion of any terrorist activity. I am very glad that the Muslim community in the Czech Republic is moderate. For example, if you look at the vote of the Turek who took part in the referendum in the Czech Republic on strengthening the powers of President Erdogan, the Turek who live in the Czech Republic voted against Erdogan. They voted against strengthening its powers. There is quite a big difference when we look at the vote of the Turek in Germany or Austria. So our Muslim community is not radicalized, the community is relatively small from the perspective of other countries that are in Central and Eastern Europe. I want to assure both Mr Okamura and all citizens of the Czech Republic that the government, thanks to our strengthening of our capacity, is doing everything possible to control the security situation in our country. I also want to assure you that we are responding adequately to terrorist attacks, if they take place in France, if they take place in Germany, the government is assessing the security situation immediately. We have introduced a new safety risk assessment system in our country to make it clear and transparent for citizens. In recent years, we have also changed and changed a number of laws precisely to create the best possible prerequisites for ensuring people's safety. And just one last comment. The problem is not religion, the problem is specific people who violate... [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Yes, I'll finish it in the other part. I'm gonna be disciplined.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u5	Thank you. Mr Tomio Okamura has the right to ask additional questions. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u6	Prime Minister, this is unbelievable. You either don't know or you don't tell the truth. Now I don't know what's worse. Indeed, the Security Information Service - and you do not know about it - pointed out the financial flows of radical Muslims in the Czech Republic towards Arab countries already in the report in 2015. So the result of your activity, what you said, is that in 2016, he's saying the exact same thing, and he's saying it all the way out here. So the result of your activity is zero. Same condition or worse. So just to remind you that it's not just in 2016, but it was in 2015, which you may not know, or you're deliberately hiding it here. Just so you know what kind of legal situation you, Prime Minister, tolerate. The courts have freed the president of Czech Muslims Vladimír Sáňka for spreading a book in which the foundations of Tauhid were defended, that it is possible to have sex with underage girls, marriage with girls under 15 years of age, cutting legs, hands, sex with wife with help of physical violence is order, and so on. And we wanted to change that law, and you rejected it. [[Time warning]] Why?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u7	Thank you. The Prime Minister has two minutes to respond. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u8	Thank you. Madam Members, I have tried to use the time to explain to Mr Okamur what the nature of the secret service activity is. Secret services are to provide information. And if they didn't provide information, it would be wrong. If they did not know that there were possible cases such as those mentioned by Mr Okamura, they would not have carried out their duties. After all, it is a good thing that we have this knowledge, because they can then be responded to by law enforcement authorities in the event of a violation of the laws of our country. So the role of the Secret Service is to have information to keep them on time. That is why I also said that concrete roadblocks are not the key weapon in the fight against terrorism, but information. And we must have them in good time, and we must be able to respond and evaluate the situation on their basis. And, as I said, the problem is not religion, the problem is in specific people who violate laws, whether the laws of the Czech Republic or the laws of other countries of the European Union. The problem is in people who violate human rights, engage in illegal activities, for example by participating in fighting in the ranks of the Islamic State and so on. So I think that it is always necessary to assess the specific responsibility of specific people and to care and to make sure that the laws and Constitution of the Czech Republic are strictly respected, and that is what our government has tried and tried and tried and will do in recent years. And we are also concerned with tightening legislation everywhere where we need to strengthen security. Among other things, we are the first government to carry out a national security audit, and now, on the basis of that audit, we are taking further security measures.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u9	Thank you for keeping the time to answer, Prime Minister. We will be discussing further interpelling, Mrs Dana Váhalová, on the dual quality of food. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Prime Minister, dear colleagues. Dear Prime Minister, recently, a very discussed topic is the different quality of food sold in our country and in the surrounding countries. The plenary session of the European Parliament held a so-called debate on double quality, initiated by 43 Members and Members. You took part in a European Council meeting in Brussels some time ago, where this issue was also discussed. Could you introduce us to the results of this meeting and to any other steps taken by the government to improve the quality of food in the Czech Republic? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u11	Thank you, Mrs Váhalová, for asking and keeping the time and the words will be taken up by the Prime Minister. Please, Prime Minister, your five minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u12	Yes, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we are really struggling in the European Union, in the common European market, with different standards of food quality. Products which differ in quality, composition or weight from the same product placed on the market in other Member States are placed on the common market under the same trade mark. The lower quality of products is generally affected by the so-called Eastern States of the European Union, which, in my view, can be regarded as a form of discrimination against a part of consumers on the common European market. I must also say that the issue of product quality, not only the quality of food but in general products, is one of the priorities of the Czech Government. As far as the issue of double food quality is concerned, from 2015 onwards, we are applying activities which should be aimed at making the European Commission clear on this issue. The problem is that the response from the European institutions, the European Commission, has not been sufficient for a long time. Gradually, other Member States began to turn to the European Commission. In July 2016, a number of European institutions, including a number of European Commissioners, were sent a joint statement by the Ministers of Agriculture of the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Bulgaria, Croatia and Estonia, and food tests were also annexed to this statement in the original version, which were carried out in the Czech Republic and Slovakia. These tests demonstrated the dual quality of food. In January 2017, the European Commission responded to these initiatives. Unfortunately, the answer shows that the European Commission approves that goods of the same brand with the same or similar packaging may differ between Member States if they comply with the legal requirements of the European Union. I must say that we were not satisfied with this response from the European Commission, so we did not resign to our efforts to continue to address this issue. In March this year, the Minister of Agriculture supported Jurečka at the meeting of the Agriculture Council, which submitted material by Slovakia and Hungary, which informs about a recent survey carried out in Slovakia. In March of this year, I also supported an extraordinary meeting of the Prime Ministers of the V4 countries, which specifically addressed the problem of double food quality in Warsaw. Based on strong pressure from the Czech Republic as well, it was agreed that all four premieres of V4 would appeal to the European Commission to address this issue. We called on the Commission to carry out a comparative analysis following the relevant European Parliament resolution in order to propose legislative changes and to respond promptly to the findings at Member State level. We have also agreed that a working group will be set up within the V4 to coordinate the procedure especially for our agriculture ministers on this matter. Following the summit, I also spoke in support of this issue at the European Council on 9 March, and I must say that the Czech Republic, in cooperation with other V4 countries, has succeeded in pushing the subject of double food quality in the internal market into the conclusions of the President of the European Council. In this context, the Czech Republic has also welcomed the subsequent statement by representatives of the European Commission that the European Commission will address this issue. So, in my view, the first breakthrough in the European Commission's opinion was primarily based on the initiative we took within the V4 countries. Currently, a double product quality test in the Ministry of Agriculture is being prepared in the Czech Republic. Foods are expected to be tested, but also several non-food products of the same brands sold in the Czech Republic and the surrounding countries. The results of this test should be available in the middle of this year, and if we find further evidence of double quality practices, we will provide these results to the institutions of the European Union. I think that this will therefore support our long-term appeal for the European Commission to address this issue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u13	Thank you, Prime Minister, for keeping time. I ask my colleague Váhalová if she has an additional question? [[Yes.]] That's right. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u14	I may just thank you, because my next question was about the Warsaw Summit, where you agreed, as premieres of the Visegrad Four, on a joint procedure and pressure on the European Commission, which I very much welcome. I really consider this topic to be very important and I would like our government to continue this pressure on the European Commission and to monitor what it will be like for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u15	Thank you. The Prime Minister will add something else about the V4 meeting. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u16	Thank you. I just want to add that the issue of double food quality is not the only problem that we are dealing with. The key thing we are seeing is also, above all, guaranteeing our citizens the quality of food of all that is being placed on our market, which people can buy from us. I am pleased that we have been able to significantly increase the activity of the control bodies available to the government in recent years to press on food quality, that there is a relatively good cooperation between the Ministry of Agriculture, the State Veterinary Administration, the State Agricultural and Food Inspection, which plays a key role, but also the Agricultural and Food Chamber, so that we can promote quality food together. Of course, it is also important for us to support quality Czech food, because we are also helping our agriculture and thus helping our countryside. I want to say that the government will clearly continue with initiatives that promote quality Czech food and are on the side of consumers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u17	Thank you, Prime Minister. We continue with another winning interpellation, it is Mr Ladislav Šincl's interpellation on minimum wage. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u18	Dear Prime Minister, your government corrects the unfortunate influence of right-wing governments, when the minimum wage stagnates for five years until 2013. It should be recalled that the minimum wage from 2007 to 2012 was only 8 thousand and, for example, in 2003 it was 6.2 thousand. The current government regularly increased the minimum wage each year so that it could perform its duties. Today, thanks to your government, there are 11,000 crowns. Thus, on the one hand, she protected workers from unfairly low remuneration, and on the other hand, she motivated people to seek work and to give it priority over receiving social benefits. Personally, I think it is necessary to continue this trend so that the minimum wage continues to grow in order to pay people to work. In my opinion, the optimal minimum wage would be at least CZK 15,000. Prime Minister, can you assure us that, given the good state of our economy and the favourable development of employment, your government will continue to raise minimum wages this year, so that this trend will continue for the future? Do you have a predictable and transparent procedure in this context for further growth of minimum wages? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u19	I thank my colleague Šincl. The Prime Minister has five minutes to respond. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u20	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I must say that I am a great supporter of raising a minimum wage because the minimum wage plays an important motivational role. And I consider it a crucial parameter and the setting up of our social system so that the social system is set up so that it pays to work, which means that even a person who does only minimum wage has a higher net income than he does if he receives social benefits. And until our system is clearly set up this way, we can hardly talk about social justice; we can hardly talk about motivation to work. Unfortunately, it's still not like that. I would very much like to say that it is that we have resolved this over the last four years, but not yet. Because we had to remove the huge handicap that existed here because, as has already been said here, when you look at statistics, between January 2007 and January 2013, the minimum wage in our country did not rise by a crown. This means that dogma has been applied here, that the minimum wage is not to increase, and therefore there has been a significant stagnation of people's income, who receive the lowest earnings. Rusnokův's government started raising the minimum wage in 2013, which raised it by CZK 500, and I am glad that it was able to establish our government and that we gradually raised the minimum wage to CZK 9,200, 9,900 and finally to CZK 11,000 from 1 January this year. That means we've moved in a significant way, but it's still not enough. In the government programme and in the coalition agreement, it is said that we want the minimum wage to reach at least 40 per cent of the average wage at the end of the parliamentary term. According to the calculations available to us, the minimum wage should thus increase above CZK 12,000 from 1 January next year, and for the minimum wage to be around 40.5% of the average wage, so it should increase by CZK 1,200. I am therefore very pleased that Mrs. Labor and Social Affairs Minister Marksová has announced that she will submit a proposal to raise the minimum wage by 1,200 from 1 January next year. This will be decided by the government, I suppose, in the first half of this year and I will try to make sure that the increase in minimum wage of at least CZK 1,200 per government passes. So we have a chance that the minimum wage from 1 January, if it succeeds, could be CZK 12,200, and reach over 40 percent of the average salary, but we must continue in the following years. I also think clearly that this is not the dogma, or the instruction that has been applied here by the right, that raising the minimum wage increases unemployment. I think that the Czech Republic has certainly not been in this situation and it is not, because we have increased the minimum wage significantly over the last four years and we are a country with the lowest unemployment rate in the European Union. And even after we raised the minimum wage from 1 January to 11,000 gross, unemployment in the Czech Republic decreased further this spring. One final point. A lot of people say that we only care about some 100,000 people here who have the lowest minimum wage. You're right, those people who are purely on minimum wage are just over 100 grand, but every increase in minimum wage means a shift for the others. Definitely from the debate that I hold during company visits, from the debate that I hold with the unions where the unions work, people confirm that by increasing minimum wage, we also put pressure on private firms to increase wages. This means that the increase in minimum wages also has a positive effect on the improvement of other employees. One may think that it is paradoxical sometimes, but when I even dealt with trade unions that work in the automotive industry, with the Kovo trade unions, they very much plotted to continue raising minimum wages, because even in their businesses, where decent wages are needed, the increase in minimum wages helps to increase wages even further. So, yes, I want us to continue, and I want us to take advantage of the possibility that our government can decide to raise a minimum wage so that we can do so by January 1st next year and go above 40 percent of the average salary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u21	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr Šincl will ask an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u22	Thank you, Prime Minister. It is good that you have mentioned here the fact that raising the minimum wage is actually pushing to increase the average wage in the Czech Republic. That's what it takes for a lot of people to realize, so we know why we're trying to raise a minimum wage here. Increasing the minimum wage is usually criticized by the right-wing opposition. As you said here, the right-wing opposition claims that this will increase unemployment. Can you really assure us that these fears are not appropriate? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u23	I thank my colleague Šincl. The Prime Minister has two minutes to complete his response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u24	Yes, I think one of the things that is very interesting - unfortunately, I only have a small graph here, but I will try to describe it verbally. When you look at it, it's very interesting, because actually raising a minimum wage tends to coincide with the fact that unemployment has fallen. And it's very interesting because between 2001 and 2006, when the coalition government actually ruled, which was led by social democracy, the minimum wage grew from 34 percent of the average salary up to almost 39 percent of the average salary, so that was the period when the minimum wage grew. Then there were right-wing governments, and the share of the minimum wage on the average salary fell from 39 percent in 2006 to 31 percent in 2012. And it is only here that you can see that the share of minimum wage on average wage is actually rising again. [[shows the graph]] [[15.00 hours]] And as far as the unemployment bond is concerned. As I said before, there is a huge delay in raising the minimum wage that has been caused in the past, and the minimum wage does not fulfil the motivational role. She's still not fulfilling it even after the repeated increase. And I think what increases unemployment is the fact that it pays to be on welfare. At a time when it's worth working, even at a minimum wage, it goes against unemployment. It's against trying to stay on welfare, trying to get around the labour market and working black. And it also helps, of course, to limit the so-called payment of salaries only to the hand, unofficially, without contributions to social and health insurance. The higher the minimum wage, the less space for the grey economy, especially in services or where there are low-paid professions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u25	Thank you for keeping up with the time for an additional answer. We will continue with the fourth interview, and that is the interpellation of Mr Antonín Sed, who has the floor. Please, colleague.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u26	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Prime Minister, I personally support the efforts of trade unions to increase wages and wages, which is characterised by, for example, the End of cheap work. I must remind you that this situation is still the result of irresponsible cuts by former right-wing governments. I often visit homes for seniors, contributions and nonprofit organizations that provide social services, and I know that the salary assessment of their employees is really crappy. I recently discussed with representatives of trade unions in health and social services just from the point of view of the need to increase their remuneration. A lack of quality, professionally competent personnel in social services must be noted, which threatens not only the availability but also the quality of social services provided. Like social workers, for example, nurses or nurses are involved. Prime Minister, in order to gradually stabilise these professions, your government has corrected a number of previous mistakes and restored the rise in civil servants' salaries. However, for example, salaries in the social sphere, despite their increases, are at a very low level. I therefore want to ask what the government intends to do in this context in order to stabilise the situation in social services in order to improve their remuneration. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u27	I thank my colleague Seďa and the Prime Minister has five minutes to answer on this matter. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u28	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I am aware that today, in these weeks and months, there is a very intense debate on the situation in social services. She was escalated not by the government reducing the amount of funds that go into social services. The government picked it up this year. But the situation is dramatic by increasing wages in the economy in general, which is a good thing, but they are growing faster than social services salaries. There is a situation where more and more workers and especially social services workers are thinking about leaving social services or simply leaving them because in private, in companies or, for example, in shops, they offer them a higher salary, a higher net salary than they have in social services or social care facilities, and it is a job that is often less mentally demanding, or it is a job that is physically less demanding. And I have to say that I have great respect for people who work in social services, because the demands are great and the demands are increasing both in terms of education and, of course, the demands for friendly, decent, friendly access to clients, social services users. And if we want a high standard of social services, if we want qualified people to work there, people who have a chance to do it, then we need to focus on improving their remuneration. The situation did not occur by not increasing wages. I just want to say that in recent years, when we could influence this as a government starting in 2014, we have taken four decisions to increase tariffs, which have also affected social services. In 2014 on 1 November we raised tariffs by 3,5 %, 1 January 2015 by 4 %, 1 November 2015 by 3 %, 1 November 2016 by 4 %. But it's not enough. In the field of social services, we are therefore preparing a rather significant step to help improve the remuneration of workers and workers working there. A proposal is prepared to amend Government Regulation No. 564/2006 Coll., on the salary ratio of employees in public services and administration. One of the proposals that are prepared for the government's meeting envisages an increase in the remuneration of social workers and social services workers by more than 5%. This is the proposal that is currently being prepared, the material has undergone an external commentary procedure, and I assume that, even during the month of May, the government could still discuss this proposal for a regulation. We are counting on the fact that this regulation, which simplifies the current system of pay rates and grades, means that it reduces the number of pay grades, this new system should start to apply from 1 July this year. This means that we also need to find funds in this year's state budget to be able to ensure an increase in the salaries of workers and workers working in social services for the second half of the year. So it will be one of the important components of the material, because we want to simplify the tariff tables and at the same time we want to increase funds within the state budget or from the state budget, so as to improve the remuneration of workers in the social sphere. So much for the closest thing the government can do and provide. And one more comment. I hope that we will succeed in raising the tariff tables from 1 July, but in any case we want to prepare the state budget so that the salaries will be increased from January 2018. And what is very important for social services is also an increase in the total subsidy granted from the state budget for social services. And I'm glad that if you look at the development of the grant, it was 6.5 billion in 2013. CZK and in 2017 is 9.2 or almost 9.3 billion. Crowns. That means, during our government, we have achieved an increase in social services subsidies by almost 3 billion. Crowns. That means, within four years, we have been able to raise these funds to social services by about 3 billion. CZK, which also enabled, among other things, at least partial increases in salaries, but also provision of sufficient standards for clients.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u29	Mr President, thank you. Now, then, a minute to the supplementary question of Mr Sed. He'll use it. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u30	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your specific answer. She, among other things, had a debate on social services and the problems here at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies very recently. I also appreciate all employees working in social services and social care facilities, because I think it is not only work, but also mission and service to my fellow citizens. And really, the salaries are low. I welcome the change in regulations. I wanted to ask when your government will be discussing this regulation, and then I wanted to ask if it is expected in the draft budget and in the proposal for 2018 to 2020 to raise money to finance social services. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u31	I thank Mr Antonín Seďa, and the Prime Minister has two minutes to complete. Thank you for reminding us of our actions on this matter, including the motion for a resolution. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u32	Yes, thank you. I, of course, noted that the Chamber of Deputies discussed the matter. It was discussed at the same time as a commentary on the material prepared by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. So I take the position of the Chamber of Deputies as a strong support for Minister Marksová when she presents the material at the government's meeting. And I hope that other ministers, too, and that all three coalition parties will appreciate the fact that there may be an increase in the salaries of workers and workers who work in social services. [[15.10 hours]] So now the proposal is ready, I'm counting on the government to discuss it within a few weeks, and my goal is for the government to approve it so that the regulation will actually apply from 1 July this year. I would not want this increase in social services salaries to be postponed in any way, especially because there is this critical situation that I have described. We simply have extremely low unemployment today, thank God, it is a good thing that we have the lowest unemployment in the European Union, but that we have 130 to 140 thousand. job vacancies, they're draining our workers, as well. and social services. So we have to deal with the situation. And I would like us to achieve within a few weeks that the government will decide on this matter. With regard to the issue of budgetary developments in the coming years, this will, of course, be a major task for Minister Marksová. As I said, for this year she managed to win about 9.3 billion for social services. CZK, which is actually historically the most given in the history of the Czech Republic ever for subsidies on social services from the moment we created this system here. And we will need an increase in the coming years precisely to ensure the growing demands of workers in social services, but also of us. so that we do not have to increase the participation of social services clients too much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u33	Thank you. We will continue with the fifth interview and this is the interview of Mr Jan Zahradník on the fixed date of adoption of the euro currency. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u34	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Dear Prime Minister, Commissioner Věra Jourová visited us this morning and introduced us to the White Paper on the future of the EU. It happened under the relatively small interest of members of your government. At the same time, things will happen in the European Union. President-elect Emmanuel Macron and Chancellor Merkelová declared their intention to reform the European Union, to open up founding treaties and to deepen integration, including efforts to strengthen the role of the eurozone countries. This is therefore a clear project of two-speed Europe. I want to ask what position the government takes on this intention, what vision the European Union will promote, from which the Czech Republic will enter into this discussion - actively or passively. And, of course, on the matter of entering or not entering the euro area, when you stated at the Chamber of Commerce the intention to set a fixed date, with which you, as Prime Minister, intend to come before us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u35	I thank Mr Jan Zahradník for his time to ask the question. The Prime Minister will answer. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u36	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we are going to have a very dynamic period from the European Union's point of view. I think that especially after this year's super-election year, when the elections are not only in the Czech Republic, but there are also elections in France or Germany, but also in other countries, it seems that some other countries are joining, for the last time, Austria, so once we have this year's super-election year behind us and new governments are created within a substantial part of the European Union, I am convinced that the debate on the future of the European Union will speed up considerably. We have already indicated many things in those conclusions that came from Bratislava, from the 27th meeting in Bratislava, from the statement that was adopted in Rome, that is a little more specific, and certainly a number of things will come out of the debate that will take place in the coming years with Great Britain as regards the practical implementation of Brexit. So there are strong motives. There is an effort to redefine the Union, to talk about where the Union could function more effectively, more useful to citizens, for the Member States. There are several possible trends. Let us say that Europe will be divided into several speed lanes - they already exist today, but there is quite a strong effort to maintain some consistency between the key groups. There is a key group of countries that are already paying the euro, i.e. The euro area, there is a group of countries that are in Schengen, i.e. there is free movement, and then there are countries that therefore do not pay the euro and are not even in Schengen. This is, say, the easiest division that we can write at this point in time from the European Union's point of view. But there will be efforts at least from countries such as France, probably Germany, to strengthen and accelerate the integration of countries that pay the euro. There will certainly be efforts from countries - and I hope, even as the Czech Republic - to strengthen cooperation in the field of security or foreign policy. There will certainly be an effort to strengthen cooperation on the protection of the European Union's external borders. There will be efforts from countries such as V4, to improve the functioning of the internal market. And then there may be tendencies in some countries to take non-tariff measures within the internal market in order to protect their market, for example. even from the east of Europe, even from the Czech Republic. So I'm convinced that development will go in a fast direction. Our government, which, of course, perceives its democratic limitations by having a mandate for the elections to the Chamber of Deputies in October, has begun a debate over the White Book. However, the White Paper is not a political proposal. It is, in principle, a material prepared by the European Commission, which has given itself a certain task, and it is rather a technical description of the variants that are on the table. It's not a suggestion. It is a description of where Europe could go in theory. What has greater political relevance is the conclusions of Rome. And as for the conclusions from Rome agreed by the 27-year-olds, we have seen quite a strong clash about how strongly a multi-speed Europe will be included there. The Czech Republic is one of the countries that do not go for a multi-speed Europe. We are very careful when it comes to projects of this type. We would like to keep Europe together as much as possible. We do not want to set aside simply because we do not yet pay the common European currency. We just don't want any obstacles to be created here, for example. in the area of the internal market, in order to create rapidly new euro area institutions that will indirectly affect the Czech Republic, but we will not have any direct effect on them. So here we are not the supporters of a multi-speed Europe, and we are trying to promote in the debate that is going on that there is, as far as possible, a coherent European Union. However, when discussing the conclusions of Rome, it was clear that the countries of Italy, France, are thinking a little differently and that there is an effort to strengthen the elements of enhanced cooperation, to free up their hands for further integration of the euro area, which could distance those other Member States. And with regard to the adoption of a common European currency, this is not a task for this government. At the beginning of the coalition, we did not agree that we should declare a deadline for the adoption of the euro. This government will not do so. But I think we've done a lot to make economic progress. [[The President draws attention to the time]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u37	Mr President, please, if you finish your answer on the supplementary question. There. According to the Rules of Procedure, a supplementary question by Mr Zahradník. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u38	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Prime Minister, you mentioned the elections in European countries, which now suddenly appear. And the leaders who enter them, whether in France or now in Austria, are very young, let's believe it, dynamic people who have actually grown up in conditions integrating Europe. It is possible that, after a possible electoral victory, they will very hard promote an ever closer Union, promoting ever deeper integration. And I would like to know - and my supplementary question to you personally is what is your opinion on the deeper integration of the European Union. Do you agree with her? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u39	I thank Mr Jan Zahradník and the Prime Minister will answer the supplementary question. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u40	Thank you. Perhaps before I answer it, I would just very quickly finish the question concerning the adoption of the common European currency, which the Member also asked about. We will not take any such decisions until the election. But I am convinced that the government that comes out of the election will have to make a clear decision. It is precisely in the light of speeding up the pace of eurozone integration, especially after the German and French elections, that can be expected, and the next government will have to decide whether we will head for the euro area. [[15.20 hours]] If we decide not to head to the eurozone after the next elections, it may happen that rapid integration of the eurozone will push us to the edge of the European Union, push us into the slower lanes of a multi-speed Europe, which in some cases can also be good, but I am convinced that in most cases it will not be good for the Czech Republic. I don't think we can say and give some blank check to integrate in everything at all costs. I think we need to look at the effectiveness of these steps, whether the principle of subsidiarity is respected here. I think that we do not necessarily have to deal with a number of things in the future or in a more cooperative Europe at Brussels level, but we can leave our competences at the level of each Member State. And maybe some competences can go back there in the future. But as far as the common European currency is concerned, I think it is a great challenge that we should also talk about this before the elections. When we have discussions between the various political parties, we should clearly define how we imagine the future of the Czech Republic within the European Union, which will clearly be more structured, there will be strong pressure to divide into multi-speed lanes. I think that each political party should then say what speed lane the Czech Republic is imagining, what it will mean, what benefits it will have, but also what costs it will have, because nothing has only benefits, but everything also has its costs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u41	Thank you for your response to Mr Jan Zahradník's interpellation. We continue by intercession number six, this is Mrs Wernerová, who I will ask for a little patience because an apology has been received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies, Mrs Lorencová from 16 o'clock to the end of the day. Now you have the floor, colleague.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u42	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, I would like to interpel you on the remuneration of employees in the field of culture. Employees in culture are practically the worst-paid employees in the state sector. The average salary of the employee is far below the salary average in the Czech Republic. Similarly to employees in the state sphere, there are employees of organizations where they are founders of the city and the region. So my question is very simple. However, I am not sure that its solution will be that simple. Will the government of the Czech Republic still deal with the amount of wages in the field of culture? If so, will it also count on tools to help address the remuneration of employees for organisations with which the State is not the founder? Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u43	Thank you, Mrs Wernerová, for saving time on the question. The Prime Minister has time for an answer, but not for an extended one. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u44	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the situation in culture is even more complex than in the field of social services, particularly as a result of decentralization, with regard to the establishment of individual organisations, which work particularly in the field of live culture, I am thinking of orchestras, I mean theatres, choirs and other organizations. Because at the moment we decide to increase the tariff salaries of workers in culture, the State can only directly influence those organisations which are set up by the Ministry of Culture. Indirectly, we will also decide to increase tariffs for organisations that mainly set up cities and also from part of the region, and here I think we are going to have a complicated debate at the level of the government precisely because of how the funds will be secured. The situation is that workers in culture have long called for us to simplify the salary tables. The proposals for simplifying the pay tables are part of a proposal I was talking about earlier today. This means that they are part of the proposal that we want to discuss in the coming weeks. The proposal should increase tariff salaries in culture from 1 July this year. This means that the proposal will concern both large groups of people who work in social services, as well as large groups of people who work in the field of culture. So this is the material of the Department of Labour that we should discuss. It is proposed to increase salaries from 1 July. This tariff increase, which occurred in November last year, which was about 4 percent, should add about 5 percent of the additional tariff increase for cultural workers this year. As far as the material under discussion is concerned, it is proposed to cover increased expenditure this year for the Ministry of Culture, but I do not have any information here that there would also be an increase in the relevant subsidy programmes, through which it would be possible to contribute to the increase in salaries also to cities, municipalities and regions. It is, for example, a programme of state support for professional theatres, symphony orchestras and choirs. And of course, the question is whether a similar subsidy programme should also arise in this situation for museums and galleries. So before the government discusses the matter, I would very much like to know the opinion of the Ministry of Culture and also of the Minister of Culture on how we will be able, within the framework of the Government's regulation and the budgetary coverage of the Government's regulation, to assist cities and municipalities in financing this increase in tariff salaries. However, I want to make it clear that the government does not want to withdraw from this intention. We just want to do it. When you talk to people who work in culture, they work in libraries, galleries, orchestras, theatres, so that tables are simplified, tariff salaries have been raised for many years. Our government has been discussing this with the unions for a long time. And I would like, within the framework of our mandate and the debt to cultural workers who have been here for many years, to be able to pay back, and to be able to do so, which is called for by the unions that work in cultural organizations, to the end of our government's mandate. So we'll try to get it approved. And, of course, I want the Ministry of Finance to find enough funds in this year's state budget so that we can possibly help with financing this measure to municipalities and regions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u45	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mrs Wernerová has a supplementary question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u46	Thank you again. She's not really a follow-up question as much as a little bit of an appeal. Because I have long warned the Minister of Culture of certain cultural disproportions, not only in terms of salaries, but also in terms of monument care, museum care and, for example, castles and castles, where smaller communities and smaller regions, for example, are quite disadvantaged in terms of this financing, as well as in terms of the maintenance of the surrounding area. So, in this respect, I think that when I heard the information on the salary situation, I would just like to ask the Prime Minister to call on the Minister of Culture to present a possible solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u47	Thank you for keeping up with the additional question. The Prime Minister has a chance to answer an additional question. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u48	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, organisations that operate in the field of conservation, in the case of state castles and castles, fall directly under the Ministry of Culture's Ministry of Culture, that is to say, there should be a measure that touches salary rates financed directly from the state budget. Perhaps just one more thing that needs to be recalled and emphasized when we are talking about the low wages that workers in the field of culture have. I think it is good to recall that they are very often people with top education, who have top qualifications in their field. This means they have a university education but very often also have other scientific degrees and education and are paid at a level that is very often shameful. This is the situation today for many of these people who work in culture, that the lowest tariffs actually have to be paid them, that the lowest tariffs are even below the minimum wage level. Now we're talking about the less qualified people, but they're below minimum wage. So, by changing the table on 1 July, we will simplify it, we should also achieve that we do not have any salary rates below the minimum wage that applies in the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u49	I thank the Prime Minister and we will continue with the seventh interview and that is the interpellation of Mr Václav Klučka in the matter of cyber security. I ask Mr Klučka to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u50	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President. First of all, allow me a little note. I am looking at how many opposition Members are here, how many Members are there, who are constantly calling on the Prime Minister to be present, so that they can ask him to have the opportunity to interpel him. Most of the coalition sits here. Energy security is a subject that anyone could have raised, even from the opposition. We're just after a cyber attack. We have experienced situations related to the danger that threatens the whole Czech Republic, including critical infrastructure buildings. Dear Prime Minister, the Military Intelligence report shows that a significant upward trend has been observed in cyber security, and I will also deliver defense. According to the rapporteurs, this trend will continue and more and more will be aimed at becoming elements of national critical infrastructure. While the current risks of cyber security and defence have now been assessed by Military Intelligence as low to medium, the rapporteurs warn against a dynamic rapid increase due to technological development. Dear Prime Minister, what will your government do before the end of its term in cyber security and increase efficiency? What else can he do by the end of his term of office? Because every day risks increase.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u51	Thank you for keeping time on the question in the interview, and the Prime Minister has his five minutes to answer. That was a serious question. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u52	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, we happened to have a meeting of the Security Council of the State last week and one of the points that we were dealing with was the information of the National Security Bureau on the impact of the global cyber attack on 12 May this year. In fact, tens of thousands of computers around the world have been paralyzed by blackmail software. Indeed, there are many of the places that have been affected. One of the most famous victims is the British Health Service. I must say that, according to the information provided by the National Security Authority, the attack has only been marginally affected by the Czech Republic, and according to data, there are only a few hundred cases of virus occurrence here in the Czech Republic, as the impact is estimated at the moment. However, in no way can it be ruled out that similar global pirate attacks will be repeated, nor must we assume that cyber attacks are part of hybrid threats that occur especially in recent years, and as one of the important hybrid threats we need to be better prepared for them. If you're asking me if we're perfectly and best prepared, I'm afraid I have to say no. We improve our readiness, improve our amenities, but the situation is still not satisfactory. That is why I am very pleased that we have succeeded in reaching agreement here in the Chamber of Deputies and that, in fact, within the framework of the amendment to the Act on Cyber Security, which is currently being discussed in the Senate, an agreement has been reached that we will separate the National Security Office for Cyber and Information Security, so that there is a clear competent body of the state administration, which will be responsible for purely cyber security. Today, as part of the National Security Bureau, Mr Navrátil's former director of the NBU is largely responsible for the creation of the National Cyber Security Centre in Brno. The seat was ceremonially opened in May 2014 and perhaps, if it were not for this initiative, we do not actually have any specialized unit in the state administration to attend to this matter. We have passed legislation in the past three years, we have implemented certain plans, we have developed very intensive international cooperation in cyber security and we are gradually working as Čech to the top. Among other things, it's interesting from the point of view of the state administration. Here again, the government has some delays behind the commercial sector, because many Czech companies are peaks in software that protect against cyber attacks that ensure cyber security, so we have top players in the commercial sector and we need the state administration to better prepare itself. I asked the National Security Office a while ago to carry out checks on key state institutions. Those checks have been carried out in recent weeks, they are feedback, i.e. the heads of the various authorities, ministers, have the opportunity at the moment to become familiar with the rapid expertise of the National Security Authority, which tells them how they should take action to strengthen cyber security. It went exactly the same way with me at the Office of the Government, i.e. We have requested an opinion from the National Security Authority and have taken action on the basis of the recommendations of its experts. What is the current problem is the lack of people. We've talked about this many times today, but we're talking about top IT specialists, and of course there's a big problem with getting, keeping and paying these people in the state administration. This applies not only to the National Security Office or to the future National Cyber Security Centre, but also to ensuring cyber security at individual state institutions, offices, but also to sectors such as health care. So there's a huge amount of work ahead of us. I want to meet with Mr Navrátil in a short time to discuss what the implementation of the action plan we have looks like, as well as the preparation for the creation of the new office. According to my information, in the second half of this year, this office should be established. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u53	My colleague Klučka is about to ask an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u54	I'm going to, I'm going to, Mr. Vice-President. I would ask the Prime Minister that when we evaluate the level that we have achieved in cyber security, we do not forget the concept of cyber defense. It's not our fault here in the House, it's the opposition's fault, which, with its obstructions, has prevented us from legitimately defining the issue of cyber defense in the Military Intelligence Act. It's not our fault. But military intelligence in defense and defence elements of cyber defense will play an irreplaceable role. I would very much like us to combine these concepts together and look for the belonging of a certain connection of preventive things.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u55	I thank my colleague Klučka and the Prime Minister has two minutes to respond. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u56	Yes, thank you. I hope that, like the law on the control of intelligence services, which has been discussed in the Chamber of Deputies for a long time, although there is a broad consensus on it, in my opinion, I hope that the law mentioned by Mr Klučka will be negotiated by the end of the term of office, so that we can also create legislation here. Perhaps just for your information, the government has approved an increase of 20 new jobs at the National Security Authority, purely for experts in cyber security. We would like to strengthen the methodological support of individual authorities, help them with prevention and allow them to have a permanent place where they can consult their problems. Until now, the capacity was made up of only a few - literally a few - employees of the National Security Office for the whole Czech government. So once again the capacity was insufficient, we strengthened it, now experts are looking for it, and hopefully the government will be better equipped from this point of view, secured. [[15.40 hours]] And we need the clear authority of the NBU to really be here, if that's true. the new institution, which will be created in the second half of this year, especially as regards the monitoring of compliance with safety standards, the monitoring of compliance with the methodology. It is not quite easy because of course IT services are very often outsourcing to individual offices under different contractual conditions. This means that we also need, in this area, to have high-strengthening cyber security standards, so that all the heads of these offices, including ministers, can rely on the National Security Office, which independently monitors, controls and provides feedback. This should be the situation that we should get very close to in the coming months. I hope the assumptions for this have been made.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u57	Thank you, Prime Minister. And we can continue by interpelling number eight, and that is the interpelling of Mr Jiří Valenta on the level of corruption. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u58	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Prime Minister, last year I interrogated Foreign Minister Zaorálek to interfere with some ambassadors under methodological guidance today, fortunately, the former US ambassador Schapir in the internal affairs of our country, by perhaps starting a six-week campaign on social networks to support transparency and corruption in the Czech Republic for lack of other work. As if these problems had been resolved reliably in their own countries. Consider that South Korea, whose ambassador was also involved, was even a few rungs below us according to the Transparency International criteria. Now I would like to apologize to these diplomats. According to the last STEM survey, a two-thirds majority of society does not think that your government is trying to solve large cases of tunneling, stealing and corruption. Seventy-seven percent of citizens do not believe that we will be able to reduce corruption more significantly. According to the aforementioned Transparency International and Corruption Perceptions Index, last year we occupied up to 47th place in the world, which is a year-on-year decline of ten seats. And there's no wonder. The government's approach to OKD or the situation in your party, allegedly political corruption-enriched, as some members who are leaving it, illustrate this clearly. What do you think of this pitiful condition? What measures will you finally take at government level when the existing ones are proven to be completely inadequate? Is this the way an announced non-negotiable fight against all forms of corruption, serious economic crime, weirdness, abuse of executions and unfair insolvencys is supposed to look like this? Exactly as stated in your own programming statement? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u59	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And now Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u60	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, there has been mention of the international index, the CPI index, the corruption perception index, which is actually compiled on the basis of the subjective perception of the citizens of individual countries. So there are many countries across the world. I think it is good to start by remembering how the Czech Republic was actually moving in the international index of perception of corruption. I want to remind you that in 2013 we were 57th place, in 2014 our position improved, we got 53rd place. In 2015, our situation improved, we got to 37th place in this index of perception of corruption. In 2016 our situation deteriorated, we got to 47th place in the index of perception of corruption. But I have to say, even though it's 47th place, it's still better than the situation in 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013. So clearly, when you look at the result of our government, there has been a significant shift of the Czech Republic in terms of the index of perception of corruption towards better numbers. If it were worse, I'd feel the need to look for causes in our government. But it's better. And I'm glad it's better. And it's better for me. also because we have pushed through a number of measures that affect the perception of the corruption index in our country. I want to mention that we have adopted, for the first time in the history of our country, we have enforced the Civil Service Act. We have passed an amendment to the Public Procurement Act. We have enforced an amendment to the Act on Association in political parties, which has actually anchored for the first time in the history of the establishment of a separate office to control the management of political parties, that has never been here in the past. We have pushed through an amendment to the electoral law, where for the first time in history there are limits on electoral spending in terms of electoral campaigns of political parties. We have passed the law on proof of the origin of the property. This is a very important anti-corruption preventive measure, and once again we have the law, and it's already in effect. And we have also passed a tightened law on conflict of interest, although some have opposed it here in this Chamber of Deputies, so we have managed to enforce a tightened law on conflict of interest, where we are among us. They tightened the criteria for the business of government members, but we also introduced a publicly accessible register that provides information on the property ratios of public officials. We have also introduced a declaration of property at the beginning when a public official takes up his mandate, which is also a matter that has never been here, and it is a completely new provision that has been introduced. However, I was of course interested in how it is possible that we moved from 37th place to 47th place between 2015 and 2016, when until then the trend was significantly positive and significantly improved. I looked at the total points we got. In 2016, we gained a total of 55 points within the index, which is actually the most points that the Czech Republic has gained in recent years, which means that we have gained the most points since 1995, when the corruption perception index was introduced. This means that we gained extra points last year in terms of the positive perception of citizens of the Czech Republic, but it was enough only for 47th place. And one of the reasons why it was only enough for the 47th place, although we had the most points since 1995, is that several new states were added to that list in 2016. This means that new states were included there, which were included in front of the Czech Republic. There were seven miniscales, e.g. The Bahamas, Grenada, Saint Lucia and others, who were placed in front of the Czech Republic at the time of their inclusion, actually pushed us back, although I have strong doubts as to whether this situation is comparable to the Czech Republic in order for something like this to happen immediately. So I am an optimist and I believe that even on the basis of the measures we have taken, our position will be improved again in 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u61	Thank you, Prime Minister, for keeping time. With an additional question, the Member.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u62	Thank you, Prime Minister. You forgot to add that we scored 55 points, but from a possible hundred, so it's probably not the most ideal, is it? We're somewhere in the middle of the score. Your answer was - I'm sure everyone here heard it - very pink. I'm gonna go a little harder. How do you evaluate the Czech Republic Report 2017, where the accompanying document of the Commission Communication to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Central Bank and the Eurogroup states that according to the Global Competitiveness Index 2016 to 2017, we are up to 105th place in the area of public funds abuse from 138? And where indicators of the World Bank report also highlight the weak results of the Czech Republic in the area of corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u63	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And the Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u64	Thank you. I want to be clear that what I've said here is something that's been painted pink. I have read the facts here, I have quoted the facts here as the Czech Republic stands on it, and I clearly insist that we have moved significantly towards the better since 2013, as well as the perception of our citizens and the views of our citizens, because they see corruption as a much less danger than it was seen in 2013. I am convinced that we have taken clear systemic steps, that this is not just a question of some PR, it is not a question of some communication or propaganda, but it is about the fact that, after our government, there will be absolutely clear systemic steps in the form of new strict laws, which limit the scope for corruption and restrict the scope for misuse of public funds. And I believe that, even in terms of the use of European funds in this financial perspective, I firmly believe that there will be no room for these funds to be abused in any way. And I am also convinced that the adoption of a law on the proof of the origin of property, if actually used by the Financial Administration, creates a very important preventive instrument that can serve right here in situations where it turns out that there are people who have acquired large assets in a strange way that they cannot prove. So even the Financial Administration has acquired new tools that it can use in this way. So no pink glasses. Realism and I would say optimism about the future, because I believe that the new laws, the new stricter rules, create a more transparent environment in the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u65	Thank you. Mrs Pavlína Nytrová, who I do not see in the hall at the moment, will be next to her interview. Next in line is Mr Stanislav Mackovík, to whom I hereby give the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u66	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask the Prime Minister about further development of the concept of our helicopter air force, particularly in relation to the provision of air rescue services and the integrated rescue system. It is known that the air rescue service for all operators whether state or non-state in the Czech Republic is flying according to civil regulations. Now there's information that there's a problem with crane certification using Falcon helicopters to transport people. I would also like to ask what horizon the certification of these cranes will be solved. Then the next question is, when will the crane be able to work with the so-called crane. civilian Air Rescue personnel in Bechyně, because for the first time in the history of the military air force both as a helicopter pilot and as a paramedic and doctor are civilians. And the next question is how is ready to provide maintenance and general repairs of the Falcon helicopters, which so far are the only helicopter that is used by the army for air rescue standard, and so far I have not seen any concept of further replacement or development of this part, this component of the helicopter air force of our army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u67	Thank you. The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u68	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I have requested information from the Ministry of Defence on this matter, because it is indeed a rather specific matter. I will try to respond to the questions asked by the Member. Currently the Army of the Czech Republic has a fleet of ten helicopters W-3A Sokol. Since 2016 all ten pieces have passed or will undergo a comprehensive general repair in the plant Swidnik in Poland. It's going to cost about 1.2 billion in total. CZK according to the Ministry of Defence information. This contract for the reconstruction or restoration of helicopters no longer contains any intermediary, which means that it is a direct contract between the Ministry of Defence and the plant Swidnik in Poland. The whole general repair consists of the replacement or repair of all aggregates, the replacement of cabling in helicopters, as well as crane systems, navigation systems and also fasteners. To date, seven W-3A Falcon helicopters, which are fully combatable and provide air rescue, transport activity and training, those helicopters are back at the 24th base in Kbely. The remaining three pieces should be delivered by the end of 2017. At the same time, the Air Force specialists undertake the revision of the W-3A Falcon cranes each year, so that the crane cannot be malfunctioning. The army of the Czech Republic to provide air rescue services for southern Bohemia carried out in May the first course of civil rescue training České Budějovice for the use of techniques and the receipt of certification for this type of crane. The second run and completion of training of all nine rescuers will take place in June this year and these civilian rescuers will have military permission to rappel from this type of crane. For three civilian doctors, this course is planned for the end of June, the second run for September according to their time possibilities. This means that the Army of the Czech Republic fully ensures air rescue and cooperation with civilian personnel on both bases according to my information without shortcomings. For your information, as of July 1, the South Bohemian Region should switch to 24/7 service, which means 7 days a week 24 hours. Everything is ready for this and the final preparation of the crews, medical staff and also the conquest of the night helipport is underway.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u69	Thank you. I'm asking if there's an interest in an additional question. That's right. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u70	Thank you. I would also like to ask you an additional question, which has been raised here in my question, which concerns certification in accordance with civil aviation regulations. It's not the technical part around the crane, it's the civil certification. And if you won't be able to answer that right now, you can answer it in writing. But I'm just trying to bring legislation into line, because here it is intended that civil and public operators will fly according to some rules. That means, I know there's been a problem, so if this has been resolved in any way, or in what horizon it will be solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u71	Thank you. Now the Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u72	Thank you. I think it would be wise for us to turn to the Ministry of Defence, and I will ask them to complete the response to today's oral questioning that has been put here. I must say that it is crucial for me, as Prime Minister, that the Army of the Czech Republic, where it provides air rescue services, that is, today it operates from two places for the territory of three regions - for the Region of Karlovy Vary, for the Region of Plzeň and South Bohemia - the first place is Plzeň-Lína, so that Bechyna is the new place of business, so that the Czech Army is able to provide this air rescue service without any practical problems and, of course, to the full satisfaction of those who need and use this air rescue service. So, of course, I am still prepared to take the questions that have been asked here today during the oral intercessions, I will turn to the Ministry of Defence, and then I would send a written reply to the honourable Member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u73	Thank you, too, Mr President. And since it is 15.58, so we are close to the time of 16.00, which is determined and which ends the space for interpelling to the Prime Minister, Mr Fiala has missed it a little bit, so we will continue with the interpelation to the other members of the government. And in time of 4:00 p.m., Mrs Nohavová will be the first to speak. He will lecture at the Minister of Interior Milan Chovanec on the current situation at the Czech Post. So I guess we can hang on for a while. Maybe the Minister will come too. [[A moment of waiting.]] Now, madam, I beg you, you may take your place, it is 16 o'clock. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u74	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, have a good afternoon. The minister isn't here, so I'm gonna reload the interview. Dear Minister, I have recently heard a number of complaints from mayors and representatives of particularly small municipalities, but also from citizens and postal workers about the current state of the Czech Post. The content of their complaints was very diverse and could be collectively referred to as complaints about the so-called franchise process of the Czech Post and the resulting steps. Just as Budvar's national business cannot be attacked directly, and therefore, for its liquidation in favour of competition, the law on the publication of contracts is applied, so neither can the state company Česká pošta, because none of its competitors will accept the obligation to deliver the letter to each village at prices that would be acceptable to citizens. The mayors and municipalities are pushed to receive the mail in unchosen ways, and if not, it will be handed over to another entity: the nearest store or curfew. By abolishing local delivery companies and introducing car cruisers who do not have local knowledge and deliver in a better case to another addressee, but rather merely calling "you have not been caught, pick up at the post office" the services of citizens have deteriorated rapidly. For the rest of the stone mail, which cannot be cancelled so far, workers will at least be included in other responsibilities and tasks and, in order to be sure, they will be materially involved in their performance. The evaluation of the post office staff is very trivial. And so, Minister, I ask you, how many franchises have been set up so far, how much has the mail saved, and how much has it cost her on the other hand? Two. Is there a comparison of the costs of car delivery to villages and, on the other hand, the costs of paying the delivery woman? [[Attention on time.]] And three: How will postal workers' salaries continue to develop? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u75	Thank you. Your interview will be answered in writing within 30 days. Mrs Nytrová is not in the room, she is excused, so next up, Mrs Zuzana Šánová will speak with her intervention on Secretary Michaela Marksová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u76	Thank you for the floor. I would have followed up on yesterday's debate on hedge orders from the Financial Administration. It's not just the Financial Administration. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs also does not treat entrepreneurs as they might. I've got a story here, a decision on administrative delinquency and a fine. A new entity was created, he wanted to apply as an employer to the district social security administration. The application was sent by data box 3. 1. 2017. It's an obligation to report in eight days. He volunteered. In March, the decision on the administrative offence came that he did not meet this deadline in eight days but until 2. 2. 2017. The subject demonstrated that he had actually sent the message by means of a data box, supported it by confirmation, and still received a fine of CZK 2,000. Act No.187/2006 Coll. says it can be saved. However, even if it is possible to deposit, the district administration may decide whether to impose or not, so the fine, even if everything has been documented, has been imposed. Who's to blame for the message traveling through the data box for almost a month? So I want to ask the Minister whether you intend to address this problem, and whether you consider it right that a data report travels for almost a month, the client of the district social security administration can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u77	Thank you, too, Madame. Your interpellation will be answered in writing. Mr Zlatuška will now speak with his intervention on the present, now the absent Minister of Education. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u78	vážený President. At the present Minister of Education I intersect the parties to the publication of tests in secondary schools and the approach of Cermat to this. [[Minister Valachová is coming to the hall]] I sent the Minister for this initiative on 14 April 2017, in which I pointed out that when the tests are not published and the access of other pupils is restricted and given only to those who passed the tests, this creates an uneven situation. It makes it the conditions for a black store with those tests and, more or less, those who do tests in other terms, only those who have the opportunity to get them under their hands in some way. I pointed out a month ago that it was a measure that was, in fact, corrupt. Yesterday I received a reply to this, written by Deputy Minister Pícl, dated 11 May 2017 where it is said that the publication and dissemination of tests of uniform entrance exams is in the opinion of the Ministry inappropriate. There is some strange reference to the fact that, allegedly on the basis of experimental verification, information to the public on the nature and form of the texts used can be considered sufficient. But it's not about informing the public as such. This is about how, on the basis of equal conditions, those who pass the tests have access to it. And it is also about the extent to which the tests are at least mildly in character that they contribute to teaching pupils something at this stage, i.e. that they get to the results in a sufficiently short time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u79	Your time, Mr. Ambassador. And you're lucky, Mr. Ambassador, because you've come to see Madam Secretary, who I'm giving the floor to. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u80	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am, of course, familiar with the situation which is also being discussed publicly. Of course, I also confirm the letter from Deputy Pícl Píclo for the education section, as Professor Zlatuška described it. In general, I would say so much. All the time I've been at the Ministry, of course, we've been trying to make the most of the formal exams, in this case even the uniform entrance exams. The problem from the point of view of the uniform entrance exams and the publication of the tests that the applicants have written in each round is that, on the one hand, it is undoubtedly good that the candidates for secondary school studies have the opportunity to pass that test, the single test from Czech and mathematics, twice. It's convenient for them, of course. It's wrinkles on directors' foreheads, because that's obviously an administrative burden. But applicants have the opportunity to try the test twice and the better one then counts on the order in terms of their career path. And I think that's where we agree that it's right for their career path to be chosen as best as possible to be successful in school and in life. And here I dare to ask Professor Zlatušek a little rhetorical question, whether it would be fair, on the contrary, that those who are doing more rounds, in particular those who are unsuccessful in the previous rounds, so that they will then benefit for the third or fourth time by having at their disposal the tests that those who passed the first round did not have. I'm putting a question mark here. I don't think I have an ambition here at the speaker's desk in the Chamber of Deputies, but I'm preparing a press conference tomorrow with the director of Cermat for uniform entrance exams and for math, and I'm going to try to find some solutions tomorrow that would be helpful in terms of openness towards the public.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u81	Thank you. I ask the honourable Member if he is interested in an additional question. He does. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u82	I am extremely unhappy, Madam Secretary, with this concept of justice. On the one hand, it denies the fact that only by opening the system is by making the information available to the black market. However, I consider it to be the opposite of what the Minister of Education should take care of by bringing this sense of justice to the opportunity for pupils to advance in the education ranking.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u83	Thank you. Madam Secretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u84	Mr President, I must put Professor Zlatuška in line, because we are sure to agree that between the various rounds of admission procedures in high school, no one will become wiser, no more educated, no more appropriate to one or another test if they learn about the test from the previous round. And I would also like to point out to the entire Chamber of Deputies that, of course, with great dislike, I bear attempts at trade - I call it the fear of parents in terms of entrance exams or then the graduation exams and various self-proclaimed testing companies and preparations for entrance exams or graduations. However, I would like to stress that this year and last year, the Ministry sent all the tests from the single entrance exams, which were in previous pilot verifications, and even the so-called tests for the exam, to the last of the first week of February, so that pupils and students who subsequently apply for the entrance exams or the journey in high school could try this out, absolutely free of charge and in school. And when visiting my schools, I had the opportunity to see several times in the ninth grade primary schools that these tests were really used, that pupils tried them, so that, of course, they would not be surprised, for example, by the methodology of the test or something similar. And I would also like to say that the single entrance exams have a huge amount of open answers, which means that they are retreating from some kind of strangulation and, b, c and various other tricks, because it would not provide us with knowledge of what student knowledge is. And, of course, these open questions and answers should also contribute to transparency. But again, I agree to try tomorrow - thank you, Mr. President. [[Your time.]] Once again, I just agree that I will try to publish a more helpful opinion tomorrow on the openness of the tests, as the professor asks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u85	Thank you. Next, Mr. Karel Šidlo will speak with his intervention. He's going to interpel the Minister of Transport Dan Ťok. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u86	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, the Chamber of Deputies has adopted an amendment to Act No. 56/2001 Coll., which was published in the Collection of Laws on 3 March this year in Part 21 as Regulation No. 63/2017 Sb. and its effectiveness is from 1 June this year. The amendment to the Act now regulates the number of technical vehicle inspection stations, unlike the current valid version of the Act, when the determination of the number of STK was under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Transport by means of the implementing decree. During May, the Ministry of Transport prepared an amendment to Decree No. 302/2001 Sb., where the conditions for calculating the scope of coverage of the administrative district are changed by technical inspection stations. In particular, Annex I is amended as follows: 19. This amendment of the Decree deliberately and contrary to the amendment of the Act reduces the capacity of existing technical inspection stations, thereby increasing the required number of technical inspection stations by about 50 per cent. According to information to the professional public, the Ministry of Transport refused to address the comments on this unjustified degradation of the capacity of existing technical inspection stations and to transfer them to the forthcoming amendment of the Decree, which will hardly be valid from 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Now questions. First. Why the implementing decree was issued before the amendment to Act 56/2001 Coll. was effective.? Second. For what reason have the conditions for determining the number of STKs in administrative districts been changed? And the third. What will be the procedure of the Ministry after the amendment of Act No. 56/2001 Coll. from 1. 6. 2017? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u87	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And now the Minister of Transport, Dan Ťok, has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u88	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I must say that in this case there has probably been a slight misinterpretation of what is happening. Firstly, the Chamber of Deputies has decided that the matter which has been dealt with in the decree will be promoted to the law, and therefore the calculation of the capacity of the territory, how much it should or should not be there, or can or cannot be STK, is now in the law. That's not upset, and that's where it stays. The decree we're talking about, which is the amendment to Decree 302/2001, does nothing but refines what the law didn't do. That means the formula is valid, we're not rewriting it, we're not changing it. The only thing we've done is we've added some parameters there, and that's that if the line isn't fully equipped with four techniques, one assistant and one manager, that is, if it's not fully occupied, then it doesn't have full capacity, then the capacity of the line is reduced due to the missing people. It also requires the wording of the Labour Code. So I'm convinced that there's no such thing as issuing a bill that negates the law. We only add the things that are in that law with the decree, so that it can be counted, because there were some things that were not quite clear. And the third thing. I think the interpretation that's here is completely wrong, because the amendment to the law, which is today, basically cemented the possibility of a change in the STK. If anything changes with this calculation, it might be 5-10 percent. 50 percent is completely futurology. So I'm convinced that what the Ministry did is what his duty was. The amendment of the decree is essentially enshrined in the law, so she must be issued and amended in the current validity of the law. It's gonna be a month's distance here. I believe that we have done everything the Ministry could do, and it is nothing that you have suggested that we change the work of Members by decree, whether wanted or unwanted. This was not and is not in any way done by this decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u89	Thank you, Minister. The Member is interested in an additional question. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u90	Thank you for the floor and thank you for the answers, Minister. But I'm sorry, my head isn't picking up. Currently, 360 technical inspection stations are operating in the Czech Republic. Their capacity is currently used at 65 percent. I cannot understand why there is a special-purpose reduction in STK capacity and thus an increase in their number by 157. If this happens, logically, the use of the STK will be reduced to 30 per cent. That can't be your goal, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u91	Thank you. The Minister will respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u92	Just for a very short time. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I do not know where Mr Šidlo, through Mr President, has come up with these figures. But they're not true. I'd like to talk to him, or I'll talk to him backstage about where he got the numbers. Nothing like this is gonna happen and it can't happen. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u93	Thank you. Next, Mr Petr Bendl will be interviewed by the Minister of Transport Dan Ťok. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u94	Dear debating Minister of Transport... [[The Minister is speaking with Mr Šidlo.]] If you don't mind... Okay, she won't listen, so maybe we'll see what she answers. The Municipal Court in Prague opened insolvency proceedings with Delta Capital, whose group includes the SPM printer, which received a contract from the Ministry of Transport for the production of registration marks for 350 million. Crowns. But so far, the D.O.D. isn't concerned that this would put the issue of license plates at risk. So I want to ask you how the Ministry came to this conclusion, if there is a crisis scenario in case of a blackout of the license plate and if it's more likely to be all prepared just to get the contract out of hand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u95	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now the Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u96	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I want to respond very simply. There is no scenario or situation where we prepare to give something out of hand. First, today's license plate supplier was properly competitive and submitted the lowest bid, which means that there was nothing left for the Ministry of Transport - not anything else left, the Ministry of Transport worked in accordance with the Public Procurement Act and the participant who fulfilled all the conditions simply awarded the contract. We are very happy because we are purchasing brands today at a fraction of the price before they were purchased at the Ministry of Transport for many years, and I think that is correct. We have, of course, noticed that the company, or the owner of the company, there is a link between the owner of the company SPM and Delta Capital. We asked if it had any impact on the van, and today's supplier says he doesn't see any problem. Of course, we are prepared for such matters in a standard way. In the event of any insolvency of a supplier, the framework contract shall have a contractual reinsurance institute in the form of a bank guarantee. If the company should be destroyed or unable to deliver these brands, we will, of course, take all steps to ensure that the brands are secured, but I feel that at present, especially on the basis of a proposal for insolvency per person close to us in this case, it is too bold. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u97	Thank you. The Member is interested in an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u98	Nevertheless, I will repeat what you said: We are dealing with all the steps that should not be done. Now I'm just quoting, maybe we can pull it out of the record. Which ones are they? So you're prepared to say that if it doesn't happen because there's a situation that someone, because they had financial problems, offered a very low price, wouldn't be able to realize it, you're saying that there's a bank guarantee, which is definitely a good thing if there is, but maybe the Ministry can get into that situation that the license plates aren't going to be. I'm wondering if you're ready to do this so you don't have to give orders out of hand.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u99	Thank you. The Minister will respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u100	Mr President, this is a situation which, of course, can happen to everyone. We had several participants in the competition. The first three or the first two gave very similar prices. If this participant is unable to deliver the price, or produce the license plates and deliver it, then we will be looking for a solution. The preferred solution, of course, is for it to be in a different form, but if you are in distress, JŘBU can happen to you. But I don't expect him here, and I don't think it should happen, because as I've seen it, production works, it's not a question of being in financial trouble. They've got the production built, I've seen it myself, and I don't see why it couldn't work. It's not a financial challenge, if the business model works, we'll see.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u101	Thank you. Mr Karel Rais will be the next to speak with his intervention. Mrs Věra Kovářová will be ready. Interpelation will be directed to the Minister of Education Kateřina Valachová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u102	Hello, Madam Secretary, hello, colleagues and colleagues. Madam Secretary, I would like to interpel in the course of her senior year of state math. I'm not in agreement with Zlatuška, I've been approached by several high school directors, and I've literally been shocked by the unprofessionality and incompetence of Cermat staff, an organization that works under your leadership. What exactly was that about? On 11 April this year, there were extensive problems with digitization of written works from Czech language and literature in schools. In many schools this meant delays in the order of hours, in some schools work was scanned another day. Mr. Cermat's explanation that at this time, they have put in sharp operation a new software that has not been properly tested and which has caused this mistake is ruthless. Helpdesk cerma also remained deaf for several hours. School heads and school examiners have thus become hostages in a completely obscure situation. Last year's graduation cost 300 million crowns. Only Cermat swallowed almost 180 of them. I will not stress that it was 16 times more than in neighbouring Slovakia. I'd expect a lot of music for a lot of money. So far, we've only received unprofessional services from the 4th prize group. I ask you to state what measures you have taken not only to avoid repeating the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u103	Thank you. Madam Secretary Kateřina Valachová has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u104	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I may start from the end from the point of view of comparing the costs of the organisation of the state graduation exam with Slovakia. I'm here now, if I'm not mistaken, in the past she's reacted in some way. I would say briefly that both systems are incomparable mainly because, in the case of the so-called low amount in Slovakia, the costs borne by schools themselves are not included, and what they have to organise schools and provide for schools. On the contrary, Cermat works on the basis of a relatively centralized management or organisation of state graduation exams, as it follows from the law, thus the apparent difference in price levels. As for what Professor Rais described, I confess that I personally do not have such information that there would be a collapse within a certain written part of the graduation exam. I have, of course, some bureaucratic official response prepared here, but I think it would be appropriate to promise at this point that I will check the situation and inform Professor Rais in writing, possibly in addition to one of the following interventions. Perhaps I will just add that with regard to the annual increase in the costs of the graduation exam, I just want to say that the amendment to the Education Act is behind this, which, from 2017 into the obligation of Cermat, has again included the central evaluation of written works from the Czech language and literature, and the planned costs in this new activity amount to CZK 20.8 million. The comparable costs for 2017 are even more than 9 million lower, written by Cermat officials. So I'm gonna check this thing out, investigate it, and give the professor a written report. Of course, I'll be available both personally or in the case of interpellation. Finally, I must say that this is not an organization under my command. He's certainly under my responsibility, but otherwise he has a separate director who, of course, manages this organization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u105	Thank you. The additional question shall be asked by the Member.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u106	That's more of a point. I would like to stress the fact that if the explanation I received from Cermat Director is true through, of course, school directors, that at that time they put in sharp operation a new software which was not properly tested and which caused it, it is a gross managerial error. This is what I'd like to know if it really was, because whether it's more or less work, 300 million is basically up to 600 teachers' annual salary. So we're talking about the cost of this event here, which is 500, 600 teachers a year cost. And it's against that statement that they're going to fail on that incriminating software day. Well, I'd just like to hear that, if there's any discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u107	Thank you. Madam Secretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u108	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as I have already said, I am simply going to examine this particular matter here, to report. But only to calm Professor Rais and other colleagues from the Chamber of Deputies: in 2012 the cost of the graduation exam was CZK 196 million. This year, even with the extension of the central evaluation of written works from Czech, it is CZK 160,7 million. So here just for the sake of history, so that we don't waste our time as a government and a coalition. But I'll check it out.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u109	Thank you. Next, Mrs Věra Kovářová will perform with her interview. Mr Leo Luzar will be ready. I'll just ask for a moment of patience, read the apology of the Minister of Agriculture, Marian Jurečka, who apologizes until the end of today's meeting for ministerial reasons. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u110	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, there is a lot of talk about eGovernment, but less is actually done in it. At least that's my previous impression. I don't want to speculate about the reasons, but maybe it's just that we're used to doing things more complicated than we have to do, and we're conservative in complicated practice, and we don't really think about how it would go any easier and better. Only concrete examples of actions that could be simplified can move us in the right direction. I think such an example can be how drivers find out how they are doing with the points they receive for the traffic offences committed. The current system is really complicated after my trial, and it is literally calling for a modern solution, when drivers will be able to convince themselves of the state of their spot account from the comfort of home. And my question is, do you agree with this thesis? If so, can you answer when the drivers will receive a new solution, or what prevents them from not getting there? What have you done or will you do personally? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u111	I thank you, Madame, and the Minister of Transport Dan Ťok has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u112	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I cannot answer these suggestive questions but that all I can do. But I don't want to just shorten the answer like that. I agree with you that there is more talk of eGovernment than is done for it in the long term, and also in our Ministry, especially because - but it is not that I would like to make excuses - that ministers have been taking turns there very often, so we are more in a situation where it is hard to keep all registers so that they work. On the other hand, citizens' awareness of the status of a point account is, of course, a big issue. There's a lot of talk about him. There are two ways today. The first is, or may be, of course, a personal visit, but also electronically. Here I must add - but using data boxes. You can either go through the transport office, to the Czech POINT, or to the Ministry of Transport. The situation is that the extract from Czech POINT costs CZK 100, the statement from the driver's registration card CZK 15 for the first page, CZK 5 for the next page, and if you have a data box, you can ask for it and you will get it by email. In the future, access to a point account will be possible by means of a citizen's ID. In other amendments to our laws, we expect it to be regulated by law. It should be by means of an ID card with a contact chip according to the amendment to the Civil Card Act. This is now in the legislative process. This new technology, which is within the Ministry of the Interior, will ensure sufficient security of access to personal data. As long as there are no IDs with a chip, citizens can monitor the status of their spot accounts through the data boxes mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u113	I thank you and now the lady has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u114	Thank you for your answer, Minister. I would like to ask whether you are in contact with the Ministry of the Interior regarding citizens' access through e-citizens, because it often happens that individual departments do not communicate with each other in these matters, and then it would involve many complications for citizens. So whether you are in contact, whether you are already preparing a solution in the legislative form and whether citizens could therefore wait to do so after the entry into force of the Act on electronic citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u115	I thank you and the Minister will respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u116	Yes, we're in contact, they're running on a working level of communication. I'm not exactly telling you right now. I am regularly informed at the meetings that in connection with the European systems and the interconnection of databases there the communication takes place very regularly and we are certainly preparing steps to ensure that our law is adopted with electronic citizens.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u117	Thank you. I now have information for Members present: this is the moment when the meeting of the House Commission for the selection of the new head of office ends. The President of the ODS has asked me if I would, in agreement with those present, not interrupt negotiations for 15 minutes. If anyone has any objection, of course I'll grant it and we'll continue. [[Member Luzar and Member Stanjura are communicating outside the microphone.]] Or, Mr. Ambassador, why don't you give me your interview, and I'll get in touch with the legislation, see if anyone can relieve me. Here's what we're gonna do. So please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u118	Mr President, Madam Minister, allow me to interpel you on a rather simple matter in my opinion, albeit with the implications of most teachers' assistants. I've got a case here, I know the name of a particular school. It is a school, approximately a hundred children, which provides education to pupils with special educational needs from kindergarten to high school. For seven years, a lady has been working there, providing the services of an assistant teacher and operating in exactly the same regime, which has been so criticized by teachers from this place. That means he's got a holiday contract for seven years, then he goes to the Labor Office, then after the holidays, they hire her again. They say it's normal, it's been told by her employer. The employer, who demanded the same hard from teachers, we stopped it by law and forgot this expertise that is in those schools. So either we're serious about the teachers' assistants and we're gonna give them some social security, so they can take a mortgage, so they can work somehow in life, or we're gonna lay off the entire inclusion, because we didn't prepare the conditions so that the inclusion could really happen. So my question is: what do you want to do about it? I have the name and the data, as I already state. And the lady states: "I know that this e-mail will result in being fired from work. But there's no wonder in our state. If a man works properly, cares for his family, they are only thrown under his feet." I know this lady, and I know that since she's already writing this, she's in a state where she really doesn't know how to do it. After seven years of schoolwork. In my opinion, this is a huge disgrace to the Ministry of Education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u119	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And now Minister Kateřina Valachová has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u120	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that, as far as teachers' assistants are concerned, the same applies to them, of course, as for teachers, and it has indeed been approved as mentioned by the Member, the House and consequently the whole of Parliament. This ratio is therefore governed by both the Labour Code and the special rules of the Education Worker Act since 2015. This means that the duration of employment for a specific pedagogical worker, i.e. the teaching assistant, between the same Contracting Parties, i.e. at the same place, the same school shall be at least 12 months old and may be repeated not more than twice from the date of the first employment. The total duration of employment for a specific pedagogical worker, including an assistant teacher, between the same Contracting Parties shall not exceed three years from the date of the first employment. Of course, there are exceptions to this rule if the teaching assistant represents another absent teaching assistant for the duration of his work obstacles or does not meet the prerequisite for professional qualifications and the school employed him because he cannot find a qualified teaching assistant on the labour market. However, it is possible that the Member, or the teacher's assistant, may have stumbled upon a problem that some school directors have begun to question, namely that it was the amendment to the Education Worker Act, which we actually approved in order to avoid dismissal and, on the contrary, that those times be vague, as mentioned by the Member, that some directors began to refer to § 39 para. 4 The Labour Code, which allows account to be taken of the employer's serious operational reasons or of the particular nature of the work. Some directors began to refer to the Labour Code and essentially to negate the rules that we had in mind not only as a ministry but also as a legislator. The good news for the Member, but also for the assistant teacher, is that these interpretational doubts should be removed by the amendment to the law on pedagogical workers, we are working on calling him the career order of teachers, which is currently being discussed by the Senate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u121	Thank you. Now the Member has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u122	Thank you for your answer. Of course, it is possible that individual problems have occurred at a specific school with the interpretation of the Director. Here, of course, is the question of the methodical effect of the Ministry on individual directors, how far is the methodical interpretation binding, possibly. how far the directors accept it. I'm gonna ask if she's willing to take the risk of being fired, and I'm gonna introduce a specific school to you and we're gonna try to make amends. Personally, I am very sorry that this is how people are treated, and I believe that you, too, are the answer, so I see it. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u123	Thank you. Madam Secretary won't respond anymore? It won't, great. Mr. Ludvík Hovorka will speak next with his intervention. He will interpel the Minister of Health Miloslav Ludvík. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u124	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, at the meeting of the Working Group on the list of health performances, this commission recommended the calculation and conditions of the pilot project, which runs for the second year at the General Health Insurance Agency. But I would like to point out that the proposed adjustment is disproportionately high. It is mobile hospice care, or home hospice. This remuneration is disproportionately high, about CZK 1,200 to CZK 1,400, relative to the actual medical and nursing care provided to one patient in one day. Its amount is higher than the current remuneration of some types of follow-up bed care, the cost of one treatment day in hospitals of long-term patients. There is an obligation to supervise doctors specializing in palliative medicine over doctors of other expertise. Doctors with this specialization are and will be in short supply, young people are not very interested in palliative medicine. Most paliatives work in hospitals, only a small part of them engage in hospice care, even in large cities where they have hospice care as a profit. Only the needs of patients from large cities can be covered in the Republic. The rest, about 70 percent of the population in the countryside and in small towns, has no chance of getting a doctor of paliativa. The services are provided by the agencies with doctor other expertise, mostly by the treating physician, practice, intern, algesiologist, surgeon, also by the patient, etc. All at the same professional level and lege artis for palliative treatment, which is in accordance with the applicable legislation, decree 99/2012 Coll., on personnel equipment of medical facilities. It was also supported by the opinion of the Czech Medical Chamber. The proposal with a doctor paliativci as head of the work of the doctor of the patient's intake is contrary to the said legislation and, as a result, makes it impossible to contract and defend mobile home hospice care in 70 percent of cases. [[The President draws attention to the time]] I would therefore like to ask you to consider these objections in the comment procedure on this list of performances.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u125	I thank you and now the Minister of Health Miloslav Ludvík has the floor. And I'll hand over the meeting proceedings for a second.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u126	Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u127	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, interpelling success and ice hockey separately. I'm sorry I'm getting into this game when our guys are losing 0-1, but I hope... [[From the diaper 0-2.]] It's already 0-2. I hope things get better.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u128	Mr. Secretary, now it's your turn. Better news, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u129	Better news, okay. So the better news is that two performances of mobile specialised hospice care have actually been included in the proposal for an amendment to the list of health performances. What you said here is really true. The performances were discussed on the 27th April of this year on the working group. The day before yesterday, Tuesday, they went through a board meeting. At this point, they're in internal review. I see what you're saying. I'm not entirely in agreement with what you're saying about the payment, because let's just assume that LDN is a follow-up care, and I'm still living on the assumption that even LDN is supposed to go home, that it's medical care. Palliative or hospice care is a care that clearly leads to the end of life. So it's more special from my point of view after all. Although I admit that there is a relatively high mortality rate in LDN, it should gradually decrease. And it's not true that LDN is the same as hospice. It's not, and it shouldn't be. So the hospice care should be more qualified, it should be more demanding. And what you're saying is that young people aren't gonna make sense of this business is probably true. I'm more expecting that senior interns will be specialized here, who simply get to this specialization with age and wisdom. However, all the reservations you have made appear in internal commentary proceedings and will be settled. I don't have a problem with... It's important to me that hospice care works. So if we agree that there's a need for an adjustment, I'm generally not defending it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u130	Please, Mr. Ambassador, your follow-up question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u131	Thank you for your answer. Minister, just really consider, if this fits into that list of performances as minimum personnel equipment, this care will actually become unavailable for rural areas. And it is not only about doctors, but also about high personnel requirements for the number of treating medical personnel, at least five nurses of relevant expertise, are not included in any legislative regulation or in the regulations on personnel equipment in the decree. The argument of keeping the sister's exchange rate is justified in sleeper facilities with continuous operation, not in the outpatient sphere. Neither practical doctors or seniors' homes employ five nurses to secure exchange. Performance in an infant patient is provided by only one self-employed nurse, with the help of a nurse at most, using their physical assistance to work with an immobile patient. The performance system of remuneration with one treating doctor and treating staff consisting of one self-employed nurse and one auxiliary staff for heavy physical work has been purposely blocked. [[The President draws attention to the time]] So please consider these arguments here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u132	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Please, Minister, your follow-up answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u133	Thank you. Of course, we can talk outside. There's two things going on. A mobile hospice should basically follow up on a stone hospice. She should be, to some extent, an exit unit. Plus, it's dying... The most common time of death is early this morning. It has something to do with the human life cycle. So the demand for that currency is there, it has to be there, because if we want to do this at this time, then, of course, the exchange should be there. But I say it follows up on the stone hospices. And frankly, I didn't quite come across those objections in the negotiations with both of those hospices. So I think that she's the combination where some kind of stone hospice should be a base and a mobile hospice should be some sort of exit unit, and that's why I think the personnel requirements should probably stay there. But I'm saying it has to be built on reality. I agree with you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u134	I thank both the Minister and the Member. Mrs Marta Semelová, who will interpelise the Minister of Education Kateřina Valachová on the subject of schools in nature, will give an 11th interview. Please, madam, with a taste for nature.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u135	Thank you. Dear Minister, I am often approached by parents and teachers with questions about schools in nature. In particular, they are interested in the length and price that many families cannot afford to send their children for a healthy stay, especially for singles, but also for others, whose income is not enough for basic life needs. Children from these low-income families are at risk of social exclusion, they cannot afford paid interest rings and sporting activities, although talented, collections are made at school lunches and special projects are published. It is clear that school in nature is unavailable to them and such ski training is from the realm of dreams to them. In the past, children, especially children from large towns and industrial areas, regularly went to three-week school in nature, whose aim was not only to strengthen friendships between children, but mainly to stay in nature and in a clean and healthy environment. With the emergence of a new regime, the objects began to sell for commercial purposes, so today there are enough offers for schools, but they are pretty expensive, and I don't count the price of transport, which also goes to parents. Nursing stays, if they occur during schooling at all, are reduced to just five days from Monday to Friday. I would therefore like to ask you whether the Ministry of Education has an overview of this, whether it has an overview of how many buildings and with which capacity it has remained owned by the state, virtually. regions and municipalities, what is their use by individual schools. Secondly, to what extent are the comparable conditions and prices between these objects and the commercially offered ones. Finally, thirdly, does the Ministry of Education consider extending these capacities and systemic financial support for schools in nature or for children's sports stays so that they can be used by all children and this recovery stay extended?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u136	Thank you, ma'am. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u137	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in relation to schools in nature and in relation to ski winter training courses, I have applied to the 2018 budget the requirements which, if adopted and approved by the Government of the Czech Republic in terms of budget for 2018, would constitute a guarantee, the entitlement of each child to visit the school in nature twice in the course of basic schooling and once in the winter ski training course. The amount of funds needed for this is approximately CZK 1,300 million, if I remember correctly. Personally, I am a supporter of the renewal of schools in nature and ski training courses fully covered by the state budget, and I have also currently held negotiations with CzechTourism and also, of course, with associations bringing together operators of these facilities, both for ski courses and, of course, for schools in nature. In short, I want to conclude by saying that there are a lot of economic synergies, and I personally think that there are enough arguments for every finance minister, why not just here for the godly reasons that I and the Member are undoubtedly following, but also for economic reasons to support this. I will, of course, hand over all these documents and preparations to my successor for the 2018 budget negotiations. However, the requirements have been applied, justified and we also have here arguedly in terms of economic synergies, so I believe that we will be able to obtain these requirements for children.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u138	Thank you. The honourable Member has an additional question. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u139	Madam Secretary, I would certainly welcome this, and it would certainly have our support. However, I wanted to ask if the amount of funding you were talking about would cover the enlargement, because it really is a very short time for schools in nature. The three weeks would be ideal, but at least two weeks. That's one thing. And the other. Another problem is the financing or financial appreciation of teachers who are with children at a school in nature who attend them in the morning during teaching, mostly in the afternoon and in the night ensuring their safety and supervision, as well as other administration and the like, security risks, high responsibility. But then they come back from school in nature, and the directors don't have what it takes to give them a certain reward. I don't even talk about Saturdays, Sundays, if they're there on Saturdays, Sundays. Is there gonna be a way to deal with this?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u140	Please, Madam Secretary, your follow-up answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u141	First thing. We really counted on the guarantee of two weeks, i.e. week and week of school in nature during primary schooling, and then one week of ski training at second grade primary school. We were calculated and therefore applied to the budget as a second priority, let's say, one more week of ski training during the first two years of secondary school was applied. Let me put it plainly that the ambition to extend these stays to three weeks is essentially unbearable at the moment. What I said, on the contrary, would mean full child support. As regards the situation of teachers and other pedagogical staff, from my point of view, this situation is improving, at least I have the information from schools, because the amount of funding that can be used for evaluation is improving overall. But I agree that last year I registered a criticism that aimed not only at schools in nature and ski training, but also at insufficient support for those who care, raise, develop our children as well as in children's summer camps. There is also a lack of the situation. There are a number of legal risks that are not handled. I promised that the Ministry would process these legal risks for schools and improve their status. This material is being developed. He'll be handed over again, of course. In this respect, I just want to say that, of course, in view of my resignation, I am preparing a detailed report so as to ensure that all the guarantees and promises that we have made are brought to an end. And I believe that my successor or my successor will have all the resources and synergies on my part.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u142	Thank you, Minister. At the twelfth of the interview, Mr Stanislav Mackovík will intersect the Minister of Health Miloslav Ludvík on the fine of the Ministry of Health for the air rescue tender. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u143	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to use the question that follows up on some of my previous interpelations, when I warned that the Ministry of Health is not doing twice as well as choosing an air rescue operator. In the meantime, the competition authority granted two fines, one of which was final and one was irregular. So my first question. The final fine of CZK 40,000 was granted for not handing over the required documents to the Autonomous Office in time. I think an employee anywhere else in the company, if he does damage to CZK 40,000, it's probably not normal. So I'm wondering if you've deduced any consequences from this, that you've acted contrary to applicable standards, and you haven't sent the required documents to the Antimonopoly Office in time. And the second issue concerns the other fine, which is still irregular, that is a fine of CZK 3,750,000 and it is again a tender for air rescue services, and especially the Air Rescue Centre in Olomouc. [[17,00 hours]] And now I'm going to ask you this. Regardless of whether the fine remains the same, but if the content of the document issued by the UOHS remains the same, i.e. will it come into force, will you finally cancel the contract with the ATE operator in Olomouc? Because from 1 January 2017 until now, he is still violating the contract, because there is still no helicopter in category A in Olomouc. If you have it from the Antimonopoly Office, will you finally make order on this matter, or will you continue to claim that everything is okay and nothing has happened? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u144	Thank you, honourable Member. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u145	Thank you, Mr President. In summary, it is true that, on 16 January, Úohs imposed a fine of exactly CZK 37,000 on account of the fact that the Ministry of Health sent the incomplete version of the procurement documents relating to Jihlava and Ústí nad Labem. It's a fact that the documentation was a wagon, it's a huge amount of documentation, and the Ministry thought it sent everything. It did not, so the correction was made shortly, but only after the end of the legal period, which, of course, caused the delay of seven days to power the fine, so that it was paid and the matter was handed over to the damages committee. So it will be dealt with by employment policy within the system. As for the larger one, which makes 3 million 750 thousand and which concerns Olomouc, where it was asked to demonstrate the disposition with a helicopter with full certification in category A, which according to the ÚOHS, the candidate Air - Transport Europe failed to demonstrate, even though the Ministry had concluded a contract with him, there with 4. 4. he has filed a breakdown and that degradation has not yet been decided. So, until the final decision is made, this firm cannot cancel the contract, and she must continue to operate the air rescue service. I am quite aware that this decision on category A, which means certification of helicopters, which were produced after a certain period of time, etc., is complex. And frankly, at this point, as Minister of Health, I want to quite avoid various types of arbitration, etc., so we will proceed there exactly as required by the law. So at this point, we're going to hold out when the UOHS decomp arrives, and then we're going to proceed exactly according to how the lawyers will advise us. Because I have to admit, here we are on very thin ice, and the basic thing I want to do is protect the interests of the state and, above all, patients, i.e. To fly. Because frankly, I would hate to see the situation that there will be a blocking between two companies and the result will be that neither of them will fly. So I'm kind of going to wait for the decay that comes from the UOHS at this point, and then we're going to follow it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u146	Thank you. The Member has an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u147	I'd like to take a few follow-up words. I'm glad that you will proceed perfectly in accordance with the law. After 30 years of air rescue operations and experience that are big, it would really like to proceed, but it really would. If the UOHS decides and it is final, will you cancel the contract, or will you look for other ways to leave the contract and leave the operator further in Olomouc? Because that contract really runs counter to what you put in the procurement terms. So a very simple question: If you have a final decision of the UOHS, will you cancel the contract, or will you look for more loopholes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u148	Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u149	Mr President, I am simply not going to be pushed into this. I'm not gonna tell you what I'm gonna do here until the lawyers tell me exactly what the decision of the UOHS is gonna sound like. I'm decomposing. I'm quite aware that you're an employee of a company that... or an ambulance that just flies one of those companies in question and has, I suppose, a good experience with her personally, but I'm not really gonna let that get me into this. I'm simply going to wait for a decision to decompose, and then I'm going to do what the lawyers advise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u150	Thank you. Mrs Věra Kovářová will intersect the absent Minister Andrej Babiš on the current political situation. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u151	I wanted to ask the Minister about some aspects of the current political situation. The minister, as is his bad habit, is absent again. Surely you will recognize that the written answer that will come in the second half of June will make no sense to me. That's why I'm pulling my interpellation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u152	Thank you. Mr Petr Bendl will intersect Minister Marian Jurečka on the situation of stud Tlumachov. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u153	Thank you for the floor. Dear permanently absent Minister of Agriculture, I almost feel when I saw the 900 business trips abroad by the Ministry of Agriculture in 2016, I have a feeling you'll probably be somewhere again. However, I want to ask about the situation at the Tlumačov stallion and I have the following questions. When the state-owned company ZH Tlumačov was cancelled, the assets of the newly emerging contribution organization were sold for one crown, namely assets worth approximately CZK 129 million. According to my information, this is an absolute mess of accounts, so I'd only be interested in the opinion of ZH Tlumačov's bank accountant for 2016, and whether you have an opinion, or an accountant, confirming that the operations you did there with 130 million's assets are in order. At the same time, I am interested in how the new director of the contribution organization was selected whether or not a selection procedure was drawn up. Not according to my information. Whether you are planning a tender or whether the KDU-ČSL member, who today is the director without a tender, will continue to be the director. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u154	I thank the honourable Member, he will be answered in writing. Mrs Pavlína Nytrová is to interpel the Minister Robert Pelikán, but the Member is not present, so she is failing to intervene. We're getting to the 16th interpellation. Mr Ludvík Hovorka will intersect the Minister of Transport Dan Ťok with regard to the commission of a forensic audit of construction 0805 motorway D8. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u155	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Minister, I just want to ask you about the commission of a forensic audit of the construction of the D8 motorway. I received quite a lot of background on this from you, but last time I interviewed the Prime Minister with comments on the commission of the audit, in particular that the audit should include a review of the preparation of the construction, a verification of the performance of the technical supervision and of the construction manager, in particular to check the contract concluded, whether it complies with the Ministry of Transport's regulations on the performance of the activities and responsibilities of the technical supervision, and whether the supervisory arrangements comply with the regulations of the Ministry of Transport, including the inspection of the building diaries, the inspection of the records concerning the water and faults in the posture at the site of the next 2013 slide, the inspection of the supervision during the construction of the workstation with a focus on the measured movements of the backrest and the establishment of the Prague backrest, the control of the concrete installation pilot and the interruption of concrete, the monitoring of the performance of geotechnical surveillance, whether the finding of geotechnical surveillance was taken into consideration during construction, the focus on the failure of technical supervision and the construction manager. Control of the management of the construction by the investor, the administrator of the construction, how the inspection carried out, what instructions were issued, checks of entries from the consultancy and the solution of the construction issue. Three. Checking the course of the construction. It should be focused on compliance with technical quality conditions and technical conditions for selected building buildings, i.e. the main route, bridge stations and noise barriers, water management buildings. And a multi-work analysis. It should be aimed at checking the multi-work approval protocols, checking the technical justification, checking the building permit for the modification of construction buildings and the construction of new construction buildings, checking the calculations and prices of multi-work, checking the purchase of land for new construction buildings. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] [[17.10 hours]] I received a reply from the Prime Minister that I should be confident to ask you whether all these comments were incorporated into the commission of a forensic audit, which should be delivered sometime in October, or perhaps this House will no longer be able to discuss it. Thank you for any answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u156	Thank you. Please, Minister, your answer. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u157	Mr Vice-President, honourable Member, honourable Members, the Ministry of Transport, in preparation for the substantive assignment of a forensic audit of the construction of the 805 D8 motorway, acted in accordance with the task assigned to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, issued in resolution 1506 of the Chamber of Deputies of the 54th meeting on 11 January 2017. Prior to the opening of the selection procedure, the tender was submitted in kind to the Prime Minister who accepted the proposal and on this basis an open selection procedure for audit services was announced. Any changes to the terms of the tender would lead to the cancellation of the selection procedure and the extension of the deadline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u158	Please, Mr. Ambassador, your follow-up question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u159	Thank you for your answer, Minister. I just have a bit of a contradiction in what the Prime Minister said to me that the comments I made here in the composition are already part of the tender documents. Still, I want to make sure, because you just said that it isn't actually possible to change the procurement documents that have already been approved on the basis, probably the forensic audit has been entered, so I just want to ask if this is really how I structured it, the forensic audit will look. [[unintelligible]] Because, in my opinion, if it were structured like this, then the final audit could answer questions that essentially arise in connection with the problematic structure where the slide took place. So the Prime Minister replied that everything is taken, the comments are included in the dossier, and now your ministry answers to me by your means that it can no longer be done, because it is already entered. Then I don't know where the truth is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u160	Minister, please, where is the truth?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u161	I wanted to answer that the truth is with bůh. But I think that...
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u162	I guess we can agree on that, yes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u163	Well, I'm glad. There must have been some misunderstanding here, because the competition was announced, and we received a summary of your comments through the Prime Minister after the competition was announced. However, in previous correspondence, the Prime Minister agreed on the scope of the audit, so some are included, some are not included and what I said applies. If you wanted to redefine the assignment, maybe it should have been done sooner and it should have been done before the competition was announced. If he insists, we need to cancel the competition and rewrite it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u164	Thank you, Minister. And now Mr Leo Luzar has the floor, who will intersect the Minister of Justice Robert Pelikán. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u165	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, my question is not directly addressed to you because, unfortunately, the Minister of Finance is not here and, in my opinion, he may not be at the moment before a new one comes in. I'll allow myself to modify a little bit. The enforcement of law in the Czech Republic is probably quite a serious problem regarding your ministry. The problem of legal ties and of citizens and companies has proved quite prominent in the approach that was made at the seminar that I held at CETA, Czech Republic - European Union - Canada, when there is a proposal for a major shift in the resolution of legal disputes from general courts to arbitration proceedings. There is a great emphasis on the fact that all these trade disputes between small, large businesses, companies should be dealt with by arbitration proceedings before a special court, by special institutions established by the European Union. This shift, in my opinion, is a bit problematic against the Czech rule of law, although from your point of view it saves you work. It also said that the Czech Republic is one of the most charged countries in the world, even third place or similarly within long-term statistics. As you look at this problem from the point of view of the fact that arbitration, which by adopting CETA should increase x-fold in the context of the resolution of trade disputes, would be outside the solution of the classic courts that we are used to, i.e. Corporate decisions of administrative courts, general courts and others? How do you view this issue from the point of view of the Ministry of Justice?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u166	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And now Minister Robert Pelikán has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u167	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to answer that question, although I confess that I do not actually understand it fully, and I am afraid that it is actually largely beyond my competence. But on the other hand, I also had international arbitrations at the Treasury for a few months, so I know something about it after all. And I did it as an attorney. We are indeed one of the most charged states, but we are one of the most successful states in terms of the results of the arbitrations. So I think again in the future, if we can keep up this trend, the number of lawsuits will fall off too. For your information, as far as disputes are concerned, the Czech Republic has led 22 arbitrations, which have already been concluded. Of which she lost in only three cases, and that's one in those three cases, I dare say, negative, even if it was my client then, Pren Nreka, it was at that time 26 million. This is negligible on the arbitrage scale. So basically, we lost two major arbitrations a long time ago. Then there was such a not-quite-merry period, when the Ministry of Finance preferred a lot of settlement. There were three settlements, of which I consider at least one to be shameful, that was then with Nomura in the IPB case. Overall, since then, all arbitrations - and I don't want to jinx it - have been winning successfully. This is the issue of international arbitration, i.e. investor against the State within the so-called BIT, or bilateral investment contracts. Completely different issues are arbitration trade between private entities. This is a voluntary option which is given to the parties to go before an arbitrary instead of ordinary courts. It's either the one they're gonna negotiate or the permanent arbitration court. There are several in our country, they must be established by law. The main one is the one in the Chamber of Agriculture and Agriculture, the famous court in Dlouhá. This is an option that is here and in some way works in the context of national disputes in our country. We are not, we do not succeed in being one of the centers, the great international but not interstate arbitrations such as Paris, Vienna, London, or. Amsterdam. We, from the point of view of the Justice Department, have no problem with the possibility that there is, on the contrary, supporting it, because in some cases it can be advantageous. It was unfortunate if they started spreading before the time of arbitration in disputes with consumers, but this, too, has been able to stop completely, and arbitration clauses are no longer possible in consumer disputes, which I consider positive. I tried to tell you briefly what our arbitrations are about. If you have an additional question, you have room.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u168	Thank you, Minister. And now, with an additional speech, Mr Luzar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u169	Thank you. I was aware of your former engagement. So, if I understand correctly, you're looking positively at the diversion of trade disputes towards arbitrage from classic litigation. The issue of arbitration for me is the appointment of judges, the possible influence of judges, when they are already out of court as such, who has a different reputation than those of business. So if I understand correctly, you see it as a positive, I'm a negative for my person. But the balance will probably be in the future, because you yourself mentioned the negative component of the matter that concerned citizens and the arbitration disputes. Unfortunately, sometimes small companies or entrepreneurs are in the same position as ordinary consumers about large companies. This includes, for example, international bilateral ones, when the small ones are forced to enter into contracts in the context of these bilateral trade agreements and not ordinary business ties. So I guess I'll see the future. But I'm saying, I understand your position, I'm not asking for a supplement, but I'll take that as a yes, so far yes. Let's see what happens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u170	Thank you. And the Minister of Justice will respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u171	Yes. I understand arbitration as a very positive tool where both parties voluntarily and knowingly enter with the necessary information. Both sides have to agree to go to arbitration and not trial. And if it's a balanced business relationship, they agree that they want to be judged by the arbiters, who maybe have the advantage of being either directly out of business or, at least, by lawyers who have experience with this type of thing better than judges, it can just be positive. As soon as these arbitration clauses were imposed, it is problematic, which is why we have banned it completely from those consumers. It may also be problematic for smaller entrepreneurs, and I would warn smaller entrepreneurs about it, especially if it were to some ad hoc arbiters. I troufnout say, as a former arbitrator in that permanent court in Dlouhá, that even the smaller entrepreneurs there need no longer fear that there are judges, or at least the vast majority of them, making sure that the trial is fair.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u172	Thank you. Next, Mr Karel Rais will speak to the Minister of Education Kateřina Valachová. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u173	Thanks. Madam Secretary, we have just heard Mr Luzar here talking about the operational problems of inclusion. I would also have one operational problem, and that is that I think the Ministry is spewing out discriminatory lectures on how to get to know Rom people in schools. So I was a little shocked, otherwise I am not able to interpret the answer of one of your ministry's consulting staff who wrote to the school director on the question of what identification marks should be used to include people in Rom reporting statistics in the following schools. And here it's not going to be about any of my assumptions as in the case at hand, it's about a very specific quote. "We consider Rom to be a person who considers himself to be Romani, without necessarily declaring that jurisdiction in all circumstances, such as censuses, or being regarded as such by its surroundings, on the basis of actual or presumed /anthropological, cultural or social/ indicators." Madam Secretary, Miroslav sládek would not be ashamed of such a statement at any time. True, he was talking about gypsies. This is all the more surprising to me that this statement comes from a ministry where, until recently, several former officials of the Office of the Government, who are in charge of human rights issues, were led by police in handcuffs. That's a different story. Madam Secretary, I would like to ask you for an explanation as well as a written statement as to what measures you have taken to prevent such excesses from ever repeating itself. Of course, I have the materials from the directors at my disposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u174	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And now Minister Kateřina Valachová has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u175	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, let me respond to Mr Rais's comment on the fact that perhaps Mr Luzar had some comments or an intervention on the operational problems of inclusion. I am a lawyer, and I think I have explained in detail here that this is a violation of the Labour Code or of the use of its double interpretation and that, of course, we immediately intervened with it from the point of view of compliance with the Labour Code. So much to explain. As regards Mr Rais's interpellation, I would just like to say that I am familiar with this definition. It is calculated roughly according to my estimate at least seven years in the legal area of collection, I note, anonymity, aggregated data, never in conjunction with specific individuals, with specific names and the like. It is therefore a matter which, in the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports in connection with the judgment of D H against the Czech Republic, let us say, has been formulated and launched by quite different ministers than I, from a completely different political party than I am from. As regards data collection in previous years, this collection was carried out by the Czech School Inspectorate. And since I am not pleased at all if the directors and schools are being persecuted by various questionnaire actions, as regards data that are also reported in the reporting and statistics conducted by the Ministry of Education, I gave an order last year, although this is not a very popular topic, on which we agree, so that schools are not persecuted, so that the Ministry of Education itself can verify the transfer of these data. And we must monitor the shift of this data because, unfortunately, the Czech Republic has become the main actor in the past of that judgment, D.H., where the European Court of Human Rights has condemned us, and this is one of the reasons that we are also doing because of our defence. This means that in no way does the Czech Republic discriminate against Romani children, collects them anywhere, does not concentrate, disgregs in schools. And I would just like to say that in terms of sociological data collection, if I am informed, this data collection, and I would even say much more detailedly, is carried out by a number of countries in the European Union. But once again, I want to emphasise that these data are aggregated, completely anonymous. This means that there is no proper reference to Mr Sládek and, for God's sake, there is no threat of misuse of individualized data, as we have witnessed, unfortunately to God, many decades ago in a situation of penalising various religions or nationalities by Nazi regimes. Of course, a more detailed report, perhaps the best way to get back to the hands of the Member, the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, is to go further, but there is no doubt that the relevant European Commissioner Věra Jourová would give more detailed information on this matter than I would. Finally, I would like to say that I did not understand the Government Office's comments and cuffs, which I will probably need to clarify from the Member through the President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u176	Thank you, Madam Secretary. And now Mr Rais will speak with an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u177	So, in any case, at that school, the principal is testing or identifying absolutely specific persons. I've translated it, what you're saying is that when a European court again issues some discriminatory decision around the Vietnamec, we're gonna... The European Union will give a definition of what Vietnamec looks like and we will test it accordingly. And you yourself remembered, of course, the Nazi laws. I think that the European Union just... that one court that condemned the Czech Republic around the problems of several Rom people doesn't mean that we define Rom here in this way, as it is sent from the Ministry. Anyway, it's up to the principal to test or ask her what she looks like, is she a Rom or isn't a Rom? So this isn't about some aggregated data. - Okay, thank you. [[Attention on time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u178	Madam Secretary will respond. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u179	The collection of data whether anonymous or aggregated - I strongly agree with the Member - is a very sensitive matter and it is likely that a detailed report on his hands as a Member will actually be appropriate, because I understand that he is taking care of his constituency. Or, of course, a closer consultation with the school's management. I just want to warn as a lawyer, there's no way this data collection can lead to a particular person being specific here, asking questions, and in some other way individualizing their national or other thinking. I am undoubtedly in agreement with the honourable Member on this, and this is no way to go about it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u180	Thank you, Madam Secretary. And now again proven by the tandem Ludvík. Mr. Ludvík Hovorka will interpel to the Minister of Health Miloslav Ludvík. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u181	Thank you for the floor. I would like to ask, Minister, what is the position of the Ministry of Health on the constitutional complaint which the Constitutional Court has launched this week, which concerns the non-transparency of pricing and payment of medical devices. I would also like to ask what is the state of preparation of the Act on the categorization of medical devices, which was withdrawn by this Ministry at the beginning of the parliamentary term. And what will the Ministry of Health do if the Constitutional Court accepts the complaint as justified? And how does the Ministry control health insurance companies and providers, on what basis and how do they select suppliers of medical devices? I just want to point out that the Sub-Committee on the Economics in Health, Health Insurance and Drug Policy has already adopted a resolution in the sense that the current state of payment of medical devices does not guarantee effective spending of public health insurance resources, because the creation of a code list of health insurance companies may lead to restrictions on the access of the insured person to medical devices defined by the law as being paid or, where appropriate, to illegal restrictions on the extent of remuneration. In other cases, disproportionately high maximum remuneration by code list creates scope for reporting overpriced prices and unwanted commissions and bonuses at the level of hospitals and their suppliers, and there is no transparent process of pricing medical devices whose use is calculated to perform according to the performance list. The purchase of medical devices directly managed by hospitals is not transparent, it does not always lead to the lowest market price at a given time and place, and therefore does not provide insurance companies and regulators with the necessary reference for the creation of payment mechanisms. We also stated that these facts distort the competitive environment and create legal risks for the State and other public institutions. I would therefore like to ask what is the position of the Ministry on this and how the preparation of the law on the categorization of medical devices is taking place. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u182	And now the Minister of Health has the floor. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u183	Thank you, Mr President. Well, it's complicated. Price fixing and payment are a problem throughout the health sector and we have two large groups there. We've got a group of drugs and we've got a group of medical devices. Basically, I have to say, at this point, the Health Department doesn't consider the senator proposal reasonable, and frankly, he's proposing to reject it. Let me explain why. Today we have about eight thousand drugs that we have registered and categorized in some way, in some way their remuneration is determined. There are already great complaints that it takes a long time, that the process is complicated and complicated. But it's still 8,000 of the exact items that we know for each of us what he is. They have some registration at the SÚKL, they have some documentation. And now imagine that there are medical devices against that, which are about 250,000. Each year, 7 to 8,000 increase. This is just a terrible problem in Europe, how to categorize it at all. Let me just give you a little example. [[He's showing a pencil.]] This is a pencil for the health insurance company, for the pen manufacturers, and for the writing equipment. That's one of those 250,000 things. At this point, the theory is that we need to sit down, medical devices, or providers, health insurance companies, i.e. payers and manufacturers, and for every such product, we're going to call this a pencil, and it has a number of 005. And in this way we should do 250,000 items and every year 7 to 8,000 new ones. I'm not saying that's not possible. But the fact is, European countries have been trying to do this for a long time, and it's getting tough. Notabene even by the fact that various manufacturers appear more and more. So what goes on the Czech market today is already in some way registered by SÚKL, but I will admit that the detailed categorization is not there today. And setting a payment is a second, similar problem. Because when we know it's a pencil and it has the number 005, we'll say it costs ten crowns. Or the state will pay ten crowns for it. It'll be fine. And I'd really like us to push through sometime, because we have it on drugs to a certain extent. But I say again, even the revisions - we both know very well what the complaints are about, how long it takes - and I say it's 8,000 items. Now imagine that the same thing will apply to a quarter of a million items. And every two years, it should be renegotiated and renegotiated. About the groceries, that's the second problem. Now I'm going to speak from the hospital director's practice. Simply and simply, it always has to be processed by doctors. Today, we don't have enough experts in the Czech Republic to have specialists in total endoprosthetics, to have specialists in cardiovascular stents, to have specialists in anything about incontinence, incontinence tape, and so on and so forth. Even within Motol there is a relatively strong business department, where we have quite a large number of product managers who are oriented about it. But the procurement procedure has to be done by doctors. And now let's talk about whether it's really right to buy the cheapest, or whether we should be looking for the right price-performance ratio. So I think there should be a proper price-performance ratio in a lot of health establishments. So let me get this straight. At this point in time, there is preparation of the substantive intention of the law concerning the categorization of medical devices. But I'm not going to pretend that there are deep conflicting opinions about how to take it, how to look at it. And I certainly don't think - not in this term, and in the next one, I think it's kind of a debate for a year to two, so we can work our way through it at all. Because to some extent, even the drugs are terrifying to me because the system is so inflexible. He can't respond to what's happening. And the idea of adopting a law that will be annexed to 250,000 items, and every year that law should be upgraded by seven or eight thousand items, is just horrible. So I guess we're gonna have to find another way. And I'm sure I want to talk about it, but I'm not gonna lie to you right now that it's in a situation where we know exactly what it is. But what the senators are suggesting is that today insurance companies are essentially making payments by market research, which means that they essentially require prices from manufacturers, which is definitely a substitute mechanism. I'm sure it's not ideal. But I think at this point, the only thing that's possible is, and I don't think it's going to conflict with the Charter and the Constitution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u184	Thank you, Minister. The Member will now ask an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u185	Thank you for your answer. But basically, I think that market research meant, for example, in the past period, that cardiostimulators and cardioverters were also paying huge money, that it was in the beginning over one million crowns. And long after these medical devices became significantly cheaper here, hospitals were still showing insurance companies these medical devices at very high prices. So that's one problem. And the second is - maybe the problems are that when the pharmaceutical part of the law was adopted, it was adopted in such a chaotic way by the amendment and deliberately made it so complicated that the producers made money on it. Because before the administrative procedure takes place, a lot of time will pass, and the price and payment will be preserved for a very long time. So I think that even the medical devices could be dealt with by finally making some HTA process, by evaluating the financial costs, because we know that today's cost-efficiency is very questionable even with the drugs. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u186	The Minister wishes to respond. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u187	You're right that the rules of procedure are completely inappropriate for him to make drug prices. That's my deep conviction. And my opinion is that something like the tax administration, such as the tax system, should be done to determine prices. So we should prepare our own order, which would not be as complicated as the administrative order. About the bonuses. You see, today is the fact that we are faced with the question of whether the relationship between the provider and the payer, or the medical facility and the insurance company, is a relationship between a business or a relationship of a public contract. If we say it's a public relationship, you're right, if a medical facility just turned out a million for a cardioverter to an insurance company and bought it for 400,000, it's wrong. If a relationship is business, they've saved $600,000, but it's question number two, which is legitimate, what they've done with the $600,000. If they used them to improve health care and the relationship was business, I guess that's okay. If, of course, that's the question of completely different organs that we can talk about. Today we really stand before the agreement, I don't even know who should determine the relationship between payers and providers. Is it a business relationship, or is it not a business relationship? I think that's what we're gonna be talking about most today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u188	Thank you, Minister. Another interview - Mrs Nytrová is not present in the hall, so another interview with the number 21 will be given to us by Mr Petr Bendl. It'll be an interpellation to the absent environmental minister Richard Brabec. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u189	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, please answer the following questions. According to my information, when someone wants to access a public contract at the Ministry of the Environment, they have to do so in a number of cases through private portals, and if they want to sign up there, they have to pay for each application not in the form of bail, not in the form of a bank cover, but in the form of payment of a fee they still have to go to the tender. Then either it is or it is not successful, but the fee is forfeit, I suppose, to the private company that operates such a portal. During the debate on the Public Procurement Act, we talked a lot about it, because the IOHS questioned it not only as a sort of unethical behaviour of the state, but also as an attempt to eliminate competition, because when someone then wants the contract and loses more times, it costs him considerable money. So I'm asking if it's common, how you look at the situation, who chose such companies, if you know how they earn in public procurement and how much they actually do it every year. Do you not, where appropriate, mediate a contract that is already out of bounds or a liability under the Public Procurement Act to compete with such a contract? I consider it unethical myself. I wanted to ask the Prime Minister today if it was common in other ministries. I beg your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u190	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I ask you to remain in your position and give another interview, this time to the Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u191	My question is simple, Minister. I would like to ask what is the status of the reserve fund of the Czech Forests to date, what was the status of the reserve fund of the Czech Forests on the day of your arrival and how they were used and for what purpose the funds of this fund were used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u192	Thank you. Interpelation will be answered in writing. Mr. Ludvík Hovorka will give another interview with the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u193	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Minister, I would like to ask how far the Ministry of Health is going with the preparation of the amendment of the Health Services Act, namely in the section relating to the National Health Information System, with the application of a new regulation of the European Union concerning the protection of personal data, the so-called GDPR. Because, as we know, this regulation is to be in force from around September next year, and all Member States are obliged to implement this regulation into the rule of law. I assume that this will be quite a significant intervention in health legislation not only in the field of health services but also in specific health services and that it seems that the Ministry's legislation must react very flexibly to this, and that time is very short. When elections are introduced, I assume with regard to the creation of those regulations that, in fact, just after the elections, the Ministry of Health should submit some amendment to the law in order to meet the deadline for this regulation to be implemented into the Czech rule of law. So I'd like to ask you how far this preparation is and how specifically it will affect the National Health Information System Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u194	Thank you. The Minister of Health now has the floor, Mr Miloslav Ludvík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u195	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, I can assure you that the GDPR will be a matter that will definitely rid me of the last black hair, because I must say that this is a matter that is not strictly legally anchored, no one knows exactly what is involved, but everyone suspects that it will cost terrible money. By the way, if I follow up on our previous debate, there's no money in the public health insurance system. Honestly, we might be happy that hospitals have the bonuses to even get physical data protection, which is actually GDPR, to pay. At this point, IHIS, the Institute of Health Information and Statistics, is preparing a general methodology for the impact of GDPR on various areas of health, and that analysis should be, and Mr. Professor Dušek, who is a first-class workaholic, promises to be done by the end of June. So we will have some idea about the situation at the end of June, but I say that the situation complicates the fact that there is simply no clear legal interpretation to the GDPR clause, even from the publisher. I'm not happy about this at all, and I think it's gonna be a pretty complicated thing. As far as NZIS databases, the National Health Information System, are concerned, the impact should not be dramatic, since the regulation itself clearly defines exemptions from a number of strict health provisions as such, for the management of medical documentation and for national registers that support the law, which is the case for NZIS. After the amendment of Act No. 372, which was realized in 2016, was launched a major reconstruction of NZIS and today basically thanks to the fact that I cancelled KSRZIS, so today it has got into the direct scope of actually one point at the Ministry of Health, which is also in charge of eGovernment. At this point, I must say that it is basically important for the continuation of the work whether another amendment to Law 372 should be passed, which you rightly said will have to be after the election. At least what we suspect from a number of international conferences that have been going on in Europe recently hectically, we are probably going in the right direction. I say that at the moment I am unable to say anything more, that at least the partial samples from the analysis I have at my disposal show that the impact on NHIS should not be dramatic. But the impact of GDPR will be very dramatic on the health services department itself, namely the providers of health facilities. I can say that right here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u196	Thank you, Minister. I ask the Member if he is interested in an additional question. It's not like that. In that case, I'll ask him to give his next interview. This time, the Minister of Transport will intersect Dan Ťok on the issue of train delays.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u197	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Minister, I just want to ask you one question that happened last week on Wednesday, when there was a big delay on the track between Prague and Olomouc. It may happen that the trolley may fall, crashes may happen, etc., but the important thing is that passengers were not properly informed by SŽDC staff at the Main Station, what is actually happening and why the delays are so dramatic. I know that, for example, the LEO Express was more than 180 minutes late, but also the trains of České dráhy and I think other carriers were very late. I don't care about the technical thing, but I'm concerned about the information, which means that SŽDC employees should just react flexibly to it, just so people know when they'll probably leave. And I think that the information should be better and that it has not yet succeeded. And it wasn't even at the time when there was a big problem with the railroad icing, I think on May 10th, Wednesday last week, it was similar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u198	I thank you and now the Minister of Transport Dan Ťok has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u199	Mr Vice-President, honourable Member - there is no more, so honourable Members. You are right, Mr President, you are right that we are not always doing well to inform the public about what has happened, what will happen, because the concept of actually the station is that we are trying to drive all the workers out of them, to have remote control, and there is no one who would, I would say, physically inform those people. On the other hand, there are a lot or not a lot, but there are information channels over the Internet or the mobile Internet of České dráhy, which inform about these things quite well. What happened on May 10th is the fact that at some point in the morning it was, no, I'm sorry, after three o'clock in the afternoon the track crashed on the main line before Pardubice and unfortunately the repair lasted until almost eight o'clock in the evening. Such a large lockout simply caused a pretty big problem in this main backbone line, because there rides trains in ten minutes and quickly inform all passengers was difficult. SŽDC and the Czech Railways tried to make diversions, to ride on another track, but there is only one-track, it was quite problematic. In any case, we are discussing with the Czech Railways and SŽDC, especially after the famous calamity, which was in 2014, that we need to inform them better and more, and we will continue to do so. It is a matter that does not have a simple solution and will have to be dealt with further.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u200	Thank you, Minister. The Member is interested in an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u201	Thank you for the answer and I am happy that both the Ministry and the Czech Railways want to deal with it. But I'm actually at the time because I learned that it's been waiting a long time, so I studied both the pages of České dráhy and SŽDC and also links on the Internet, there were simply those light boards with the delays. But the passengers said that no information to tell them what really happened or when they finally left was given. So this needs to be improved, because these people are saying it's a big problem if they don't have the confidence and they don't know and no one tells them what's going to happen anytime soon. So that's the biggest problem that was seen there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u202	Thank you. The Minister will no longer respond, and Mr Bendl has the last minute to present his intervention. The last interpelation may be given at a maximum of 17.55 hours, Mr. Ambassador. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u203	[[The minister isn't here, he bailed.]] The minister doesn't always come here, so I'm gonna make it because I care about this interpelation. The point is that in January of this year, after several fines to one owner, approximately 76 or 78 horses were taken from the State Veterinary Administration's decisions, which were put into the so-called preliminary replacement care of the town of Votice. And it looks like fun, but those 78 horses need some veterinary care, they need hay, straw, pastures, etc. The cost is approximately CZK 350 thousand a month. The beginning of veterinary care, which the municipality had to provide, was 500 thousand by the end of April, by the end of June it will be another 500,000 crowns. I intersected Minister Jurečka three years ago, even being recommended by the Agricultural Committee to the Ministerial Commission, which was in charge of the concept of horse development three years ago. The Commission's done, nothing happened, the Department of Agriculture doesn't do much in this matter, according to my information. But what I had anticipated was that a situation like this would simply come up that could completely cripple a small town or a small village at a time when it is in the interest of animals to take such a measure. So I want to ask the Minister when he'll help Votice city cover these costs. Because there's no one, if they know about it or anything, I think they need to know about it. When it helps, how it helps. If we can give tens, maybe hundreds of millions of crowns to repair chapels, we need to be able to help the city deal with this situation. And that's ad one. Ad two I ask about the concept of horse breeding and especially about the issue of the treatment of bullied cattle or the abuse of horses. How the state wants to build on this, whether it has created a concept in those three years that would prevent this chaos, and I will say, the financial uncertainty of cities and municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-005-343.u204	Thank you. I let you finish your speech. There's no rush. Your interpellation was the last one for today. I am of the opinion that we have closed the oral discussions for today's meeting, and I am interrupting this meeting until tomorrow, 19. 5. 2017, 9.00 pm, when we continue to discuss paragraph 256, civil aviation, third reading. Thank you all and I wish you a pleasant rest of the afternoon and evening. Goodbye.
