ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-003-006.u1	6. Proposal for the establishment of a mandate and an immune committee On this point, you have received a resolution from the Election Commission No. 6 of 20 November 2017 and I am asking the President of the Election Commission of Mr Kolovratník for an introductory word on the motion for a resolution, and at the same time I ask him to present to us the individual candidates who will rise at the reading of his name. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-003-006.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, Madam Members, I wish you a good morning. I'd like to welcome you to the day of our first appointment. At its second meeting on 20 November after Monday's difficult debate, the Election Commission discussed the proposals of the MPs on members of the mandate and immunity committee. I would like to thank the members and members of the Election Commission for their patience and helpfulness. And I would also like to tell you, as a plenary, and to inform you that the election committee's meeting on Monday evening has already been held in a very correct and serious manner, and I am glad as the chairman of the committee. The Election Commission adopted its Resolution No. 6 on the basis of which a motion for a resolution of the Chamber of Deputies was prepared, which you have before you. The mandate and immune committee shall be established in the same manner as any other committee of the Chamber of Deputies. The Chamber of Deputies therefore established, so we agreed on Monday by our resolution No. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Now - it will be the same procedure as on Monday, during the presentation of the electoral commission - I will ask individual colleagues to stand up after reading their name and introduce themselves to you. The following Members have therefore been proposed for members of the mandate and immunity committee. I'll introduce them in alphabetical order. 1. Lukáš Bartoň for Pirates 2. Marek Benda designed by the Democratic bloc/ODS 3. Stanislav Berkovec for the YES movement 4. Stanislav Grospič behind the KSČM 5. Petr Gazdík - Democratic Block/STAN 6. Milan Feranec - ANO movement 7. Josef Hájek - YES movement 8. Miroslav Kalousek - Democratic Block/TOP 09 9. Vít Kaňkovský - KDU-ČSL 10. Taťána Malá - YES movement 11. Jakub Michálek - Pirates 12. Miroslava Němcová - Democratic Block/ODS 13. Monika Oborná - ANO movement 14. Ladislav Okleštěk - ANO movement 15. Miloslav Rozner - SPD 16. Radek Rozvoral - SPD 17. Kateřina Valachová - ČSSD 18. Helena Válková - ANO movement And finally 19. Adam Vojtěch, also for the YES movement. I would now like to ask the Chamber of Deputies to adopt a resolution in which it takes note of the establishment of a mandate and an immune committee in the composition of the motion for a resolution that has been distributed to you on the bench.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-003-006.u3	Yes. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. I will ask who agrees with the establishment of the mandate and immunity committee of the Chamber of Deputies in accordance with the resolution tabled. Initiating vote, I ask who's in favour. Who's against it? It's vote number six. It's registered 190, 189, no one against it. This proposal has been adopted and I note that we have set up a mandate and an immune committee. In order for the mandate and immunity committee to meet at its constituent meeting, I am entrusting the committee to Mrs Miroslava Němcová, before the elected chairman of the committee is confirmed by the House. I would like to point out that the committee will elect its chairman at the setting-up meeting, and I would also remind you that the mandate and immune committee will examine whether individual Members have been well elected and present its findings to the Chamber of Deputies. In this context, I draw attention to the difference between the choice of committee chairman and the House. In the event of the forthcoming election of the chairman of the mandate and immunity committee, the committee shall organise the election. This means that the proposals of the candidates are not submitted to the House Election Commission but directly to the constituent meeting of this committee. According to my information, it takes 90 minutes for this committee to set up a meeting. So I'm calling a meeting of the mandate and immunity committee. His meeting will begin at 10.15 and we will meet here at 11.45. Until then, I'm interrupting our negotiations - until 11.45. May I have your attention, please? The mandate and immunity committee shall meet in Room No. 23, which is on the ground floor of this building. The hearing is therefore adjourned until 11.45.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-003-006.u4	Dear Members of the Parliament, honourable Members of the Government, it is 11:45 a.m., so it will continue. President Michálek is no longer voting with card number 3, but he has one. The replacement card 7 is Mr Jáč, card number 1 is Mr Bžoch. We're still at point 6, which, given that it's been exhausted, I'm done.
