i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-0	Mr President, I would like to The housing situation in Sweden has gone from shortage to crisis. The positive trend we have seen with historically high levels of construction in recent years is now declining, while Sweden is experiencing a historically high population growth and the lack of housing is already acute. We've gone from a housing shortage to a bookie. By connecting infrastructure with housing construction proposed by the Alliance in Sweden, future investments will be possible for housing. I am glad that the Swedish negotiation, as it is now called, continues. It has made municipalities think new and also shows the importance of continuing this important work. It also requires more buildable land, and therefore the Christian Democrats have chosen to invest more money than the government in land remediation. We also want the great work on simplification to continue. It's taking too long today, and it's too complicated to build. The seriousness of the moment also asks questions at its head – is it reasonable that it should be as difficult to set up tents as it is in Skåne? The answer is simple: no. The explanation is all the more difficult. Several investigations have landed at the government's table. The Housing Planning Committee, on which the Minister of Housing put such hope, I said before that one should not have any overbelief. The national interest inquiry, which according to the directives would clear up national interests, now proposes that these should be increased. Beach protection, which would be simpler, became more complicated when county boards make different interpretations and when municipal special requirements were removed while municipalities still have them. At this point, the government must show a way. Too often jobs have to be declined because of the housing situation. The seriousness of the moment requires action. The Green Party, which is responsible for housing issues, has not presented what measures they want to take to change housing market conditions. In the recent debate in which I and the Minister for Housing met, the minister made a number of final statements. He does not want to talk to the opposition, but now it is scolded subsidies, limited second-hand leasing and watering-down investigations that apply. In a debate for a few months, Leif Nysmed of the Social Democrats said that we need a different tone. That's right, and that's something I've been thinking about during the year. Yes, I get annoyed when a little happens, when everything is blamed on the Alliance's eight years of rule, as if there was no housing shortage before then, and when in a question time I am called a ray of sunshine instead of getting answers from the Minister of Housing about what the government's plan is. But Leif Nysmed is right. I was thinking about today's debate at the time in opposition, the debates I participated in and the meetings I had had. I visited a small municipality a few months ago, but my party colleague could not be seen and said that I would meet someone else. There was only another full-time politician who could meet: a Social Democratic councillor. He was in favour of someone getting in touch so that he could give his perspective. After our meeting he said: Three years ago I had not taken this meeting, but now I am glad that someone is listening. I have come to the point that party paint no longer matters, but solutions are needed. I fully agree with that. Mr President, I would like to Politics is about wanting and choosing. In this situation, both action and a desire for long-term sustainable and anchored decisions are needed to achieve results. I am therefore prepared, for Sweden's sake, to call on the government to raise these issues and try to reach broad support for major reforms. We need strong political reforms, and they cannot wait. If we want to avoid integration problems, the solution is not for people to sit year after year in substandard refugee camps. The challenges are many. The proposals for solutions that come up in the debate are also many and varied. It is part of the dilemma of housing policy. If we want to create good conditions for housing construction, measures must be taken in a wide range of areas. There is no quick fix, but we know that passivity and consideration of special interests make the situation even more difficult. There are now a number of measures before us which the political system has to varying degrees of fear of touching. It is time to discuss how we will deal with the housing situation of new arrivals in the coming years and further measures to make it easier for young people to buy their first home, for example through housing savings and starting loans. We need to discuss the leasing system. We need to look at the pros and cons of changes in interest rates and capital gains taxation in order to be prepared in future if changes are needed to improve the housing situation. But we also need to consider various measures, which we want to discuss with the government. In negotiations, of course, all parties must be prepared to give and take and throw cane horses in the trash. Common to these areas is the need for a long-term approach and a broad political base. Cross-block calls are called for loudly by several interested stakeholders, such as builders, tenants' representatives, tenant-owners' representatives, municipalities and others. The Christian Democrats are not in prison with all the answers themselves, but we are prepared to accept our responsibilities. For us, cross-block talks are the way forward. The focus should be on measures to increase mobility in the housing market and to have a greater social dimension in the housing market. The situation in the housing market is so serious that it requires extraordinary measures. Extraordinary measures require broad political support. The Christian Democrats are prepared to do so. The question is whether Stefan Löfven leads a cooperative government or not. Mr President, I would like to The Civil Committee is an exciting but a bit sprawling committee, and it is also reflected in today's debate. The areas are tangent to each other, and with this attempt at television transition, I turn to consumer policy. Views of consumption and credit change over the years, and today the Swedes are borrowing more and more. The aim should be to find a working way to create a prudent but accessible lending market. The Christian Democrats believe that it may be worth considering interest-rate ceilings. Eternity debtors are the group in society that suffers the most when they live for decades under threat of the recovery of each crown they earn over the minimum of subsistence. They are in debt, and their loved ones live a life around them year after year. They often lack the energy and ability to carry out the total deleveraging that would be most helpful to them. The Christian Democrats believe that the investigation carried out a number of years ago, the conclusion of which was a final limitation period, should be considered for legislation. These are not easy questions, but when people's tragic fate is sold from creditor to creditor so that in the end they hardly know who they owe money, politics must do something. Starting a business means leaving the security zone and putting yourself and your environment at risk of failure. This is something that surely prevents many from realizing their dream and business idea. It is therefore necessary in a society that affirms growth and job creation that there are opportunities for debt restructuring for entrepreneurs. The consumer policy objective of the Christian Democrats under the alliance government is that consumers should have the power and the opportunity to make active choices. Consumers must have a strong position locally, nationally and in the EU. It is important that sanctions against infringements of the law are effective and tangible. Consequently, it is also important that consumer guidance is accessible and accessible to support in particular the economically weak groups in the planning of their private economy. The Christian Democrats believe that the role of consumer policy should be to help increase consumer empowerment by enabling active choices. We are concerned that the government is now returning to a consumer policy that is more geared to guiding consumers than to consumer power. The proposed objective is an expression of such a consumer policy.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-26	Mr President, I would like to Housing is one of Sweden's biggest societal challenges. An understanding of the fundamental role of housing policy is crucial if we are to succeed in our efforts to create a better Sweden, a Sweden that knows more. In a housing market there must be housing of all kinds and for all income levels. There are rental apartments, detached houses, flats and owner-occupied apartments of different standard and size and in different locations. There are newly built luxury apartments with all possible service, as well as simple rental apartments that allow entry into the market for those of us with lower claims or those seeking accommodation for a short period of time. In a future housing market, no one should have to turn down a job or study because a suitable dwelling cannot be found. There should be a large and varied range of housing with different tenure forms. Mr President, I would like to It is worrying that today's government is basically empty-handed. When it comes to regulatory simplifications, few, usually minimalist proposals are added compared to the proposals that we in the Alliance have wanted to implement. It may not be strange, since it was against most of what the Alliance proposed during the last parliamentary term, but it is boring. If we are to succeed in increasing competition and letting in new and small players, we need more regulatory simplification. What the government is doing – as they call the investment of all time in the housing sector – is putting 2.2 billion in investment aid annually in a sector that virtually nobody in the industry wants. It is criticised by the construction industry, property owners, universities and others. In addition, there are great risks, because in recent years we have begun to see innovation and innovation in the sector. Smart apartments with reasonable rentals have started to be built. There is clearly a great risk that this innovation will disappear when taxpayers' money can instead be put into their pockets. It is, in fact, a great disservice to the entire construction sector. We Moderates want to see a housing market where the housing is the enabler of people's lives, a housing market based on choice as well as mobility and security. We want to see a housing market where companies compete on equal terms, a leasing system that is adapted to housing market conditions, combined with support for weak income groups and socially vulnerable. We want to see a housing market with mobility where there are no obstacles to moving to what you need. This requires broad, long-term, secure and stable regulatory frameworks that apply over mandates. The lease is important. It is therefore important that there are conditions for building rental apartments. One obstacle that is often highlighted is the use-value system. One way to improve the system was to introduce presumption rents. When it was introduced by the Social Democrats, the presumption period was 10 years. Under the alliance government, this time was extended to 15 years – a good step, but insufficient. We therefore want the regulatory framework to be developed so that a house that has once entered the system of presumption rents will remain there during its lifetime. Today's rental legislation must also introduce an opportunity to have a variety of standards as well as rents in the same apartment building, so-called optional and optional. Furthermore, it is important to continue the successful work of simplifying and stimulating second-hand rental of housing, in order to make better use of the stock. At the same time, ownership is the foundation of the housing market. Nearly 80 per cent live in a owned dwelling. Therefore, the starting point for housing policy must also be the possibility of owning a dwelling. The ambition must be to further expand and develop different forms of ownership for apartments in particular, but also other housing. Ownership is a prerequisite for housing production. A housing policy for the future must strike a balance between sound, sustainable and long-term financing principles for mortgages where home ownership is not disadvantaged. In particular, this is important for young people's entry, opportunities, conditions and future in the housing market. Mr President, I would like to Furthermore, the successful journey of reform and simplification initiated by the Alliance Government – which has led to our having the highest housing building in decades – must continue. Together with the other alliance parties, we have put forward many housing policy proposals ranging from simplifications to the importance of joint planning of housing, infrastructure and public transport, to just mention something in a wide range of examples. A variety of measures are still needed to simplify more housing and building clear land. Examples of this are to make it easier to change and also to grant exemptions for detailed plans for housing purposes. It is about making accessibility rules more flexible, looking at the whole by encouraging and allowing re-constructions and constructions on winds and roof terraces without the need for elevators, thereby freeing up accessible flats at the other end. Further improved densification and continued relaxation of excessively rigid and inconsistent noise regulations are other examples of the necessary simplifications. We would also like to test the possibility of allowing, through a legally strengthened and to some extent more detailed outline plan, the removal of detailed plans. Today we can see that national interests and other restrictions lie like a wet blanket over large parts of available and suitable land. It's a big problem. These preventive regulations need to be amended. Before this is done, residential construction should be made more equal to other national interests, which in turn should be more closely coordinated. This must be combined with a limitation of appeal possibilities. One example of national interest is the protection of the beach. The universal access to beach areas is important, but at the same time it is important to create conditions for beachfront construction, especially outside urban areas. Today's legislation does not have the intended effect. We must continue to make it easier to build close to the beach by means of more flexible and adapted beach protection. Sweden's housing challenge is complex. There are no simple or individual solutions, but these are basic and long-term sound conditions and rules of play for increased social construction, where interaction between housing and the labour market is a necessity for growth and increased welfare and to succeed in the fight against exclusion. Mr President, I would like to With this, I would like to call for reservation 3 and make it clear that we are abstaining from taking part in the decision under paragraph 3, appropriations in Category 18.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-44	Mr President, I would like to We see a strong population increase in Sweden that of course creates a big impact on the welfare society that we have in Sweden. It will also reduce GDP per capita and probably result in a series of reductions in order to finance the entire immigration policy pursued by all parties in parliament except the Swedish Democrats. In a budget debate on housing policy that we have today, it is not possible to turn a blind eye to the fact that it is actually today's immigration policy that governs the whole of Swedish housing policy. When you look a little bit into the government budget, which is supported by the Left Party, and the alliance parties' budgets, it seems almost as if they lack insight into how this really affects the Swedish housing market. One hears from the speaker's chair and reads in the budgets that this should be resolved mainly through regulatory simplifications. At the same time, we know that approximately 1 million asylum seekers are expected to come to Sweden in the next five years. The government has tried to limit the number of asylum seekers to Sweden in recent weeks by means of a series of proposals. But we see that it has actually only halved the number of asylum applications to Sweden in recent times – from about 10 000 a week down to 5 400 in the last week. Should it continue at that rate, we would still be up to 286,000 asylum seekers in one year. These are therefore proposals that are not enough to limit the number of asylum seekers and to limit the pressure on Sweden today. This, of course, has consequences and has had serious consequences. Housing prices, the black trade in rental contracts, overcrowding and tent camps are increasing. Last time, the Migration Agency requested that caravans be used for accommodation. In March Boverket reported that 31 000 homes were needed only to cope with housing for the new arrivals coming to Sweden. It was from the pressure on Sweden that we saw at the time and the forecasts that talked about 80 000 asylum seekers in 2015. Today, forecasts point to more than a doubling. There was talk of the need to build 71 000 homes in five years in order to restore some kind of housing balance in Sweden. In the situation in which we find ourselves today with forecasts which speak of almost 200 000 and 1 million in five years, you will understand that these calculations do not add up. It is predicted that 31 000 homes will be completed in 2015 while at the same time we see the enormous asylum pressure against Sweden. Where are all these people going to live? It is not possible to find out when you read the Alliance's and the Red-Green's budgets. Such enormous pressure on building housing will also make it more difficult to build cheap housing. This will lead to a huge shortage of capacity. There are not enough construction workers to build the number of homes that need to be built. There are no project managers and people who are able to build at the pace we are talking about. It takes five to eight years to build. I hear how Caroline Szyber talks about the need for a long-term approach to housing policy. Before supporting the immigration policy that all parties, apart from the Swedish Democrats, have long criticised and pointed out how it will affect Sweden and the Swedish housing market, it is perhaps time to think a little long-term and not afterwards and hope that today we can talk about long-termism. The greatest concern of the Christian Democrats is that there are difficulties in building tent camps in Sweden. It is a little bit comical that what is being discussed in a housing policy debate is tent camps and that you think that there are problems when it comes to the difficulties of building tent camps in Sweden. I would like to ask the Moderates how they really think when they claim to have a work line in their policies when students lack accommodation. They may have to say no to the studies they want to carry out or perhaps to choose other studies because there are no housing at the place of study. Companies demand labour and skills, but there are no housing for those who will take these jobs. This has serious consequences for the labour market in Sweden when there is no housing market. In these moments it doesn't exactly feel like the Moderates are the party that advocates the work line. Above all, what is needed here is a strong break – we would have had it a long time ago – so that we can maintain the housing balance that we once had, by 2003. In the area of housing, it is above all a question of creating cheap housing. There is a focus on increasing competition. Today we see that three large developers, construction companies, dominate the market. It is clear that, under such conditions, it is difficult to create competition and to create cheaper housing. Of course we should continue to work with regulatory simplifications. That, of course, is part of this. We are talking about increasing regional plan support towards municipalities and maintaining interest rebates to enable people to buy their own home, so that not only rental housing should be an alternative on the market. All these proposals are important to look at. But in such a situation as we find ourselves in Sweden today, it will be difficult to focus on it when the need for housing is so great when it comes to the asylum seekers who come to Sweden. Instead, there is a focus on what extent we can enable tent camps or not in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to I support the Swedish Democrats' reservation 5.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-60	Mr President, I would like to I almost thought I had come to the wrong debate. Roger Hedlund spoke for seven minutes about migration. That is why I would now like to know a little more. Roger Hedlund briefly mentioned that you would like to review the interest rebates. He also said something about a lack of competition. Otherwise, this speech was not so much about housing policy. That is why I am giving Roger Hedlund the opportunity to present Sweden's democrats' solutions to housing policy for two more minutes. The fact is that we have the population that we have, and what are your solutions? Do you think you can turn back the clock and expel the Swedish citizens who have come here for the last 15 years to cope with the housing situation? Or what is the solution of the Swedish Democrats? I now want a housing policy debate on Category 18. Then my question to Roger Hedlund is: What are your solutions?
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-63	Mr President, I would like to I thank Caroline Szyber for her question. It is interesting when the counter-question to the Swedish Democrats in this situation becomes what we want to do to resolve the situation that you in the Christian Democrats have been very much involved in contributing to during the eight years in which you have ruled. You also received support from the Red-Greens to continue to pursue your immigration policy. Since you lost the government power in the 2014 elections, you continue to support the Red-Greens. I have not heard you say at any time that we may need a pause and foresight in order to create good conditions in the housing market. This is because it means that housing is not being built for a year. It takes five to eight years to build housing. We need to get ahead of ourselves. We can talk about any proposals to try to resolve the current housing crisis. But it becomes quite ineffective when it actually takes five to eight years to build. If we come up with a series of proposals today, that is something that we will see in the long future. Then it will be somewhat comical to stand here and discuss a number of proposals, especially when we talk about the possibility of speeding up tent camps in Sweden. Is this the housing policy you in the Christian Democrats want to talk about when you have the opportunity to debate housing policy in Parliament, Caroline Szyber? Is it possible to build housing in Sweden faster?
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-68	Mr President, I would like to I don't get any answers, so I might have to try to give answers instead. If you want to discuss the migration issue, Roger Hedlund, that debate will come later; you can certainly request two minutes' speaking time in it. Now, however, we are talking about housing policy. If you want foresight and somewhere take responsibility, it is about dealing with the current situation. I was very critical when we gained power in 2006. I did not think we came to the table, and I am absolutely convinced that the current government did not think that they came to the table in 2014. But taking responsibility is about dealing with the current situation, and there you in the Swedish Democrats are still guilty of the answer. What do you want to do? When I talked about tent camps, it was an example of how absurd our housing policy is. I have a friend who tells me that it was easier to set up tent camps in a crisis-affected Haiti than it is in the Skåne plain, where it is not built at all. I may think it is a typical example of the problems we have – how long it takes and how long the processes are. Speaking of building, yes, it takes a very long time. I don't think anyone in here three years ago would have thought that we would see tents as a solution. It is an emergency solution to a very special situation we have right now, but the focus is to try to change something long-term. If one is to have foresight, one also takes responsibility for the long term, and there you in the Swedish Democrats are still guilty of the answer. Where's your foresight? What's your long-term perspective?
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-72	Mr President, I would like to Where was the presentation by the Christian Democrats, Caroline Szyber? You're the one who created this situation. It is not the Swedish Democrats who have done so. Where is the long-term nature of your policy? What was your thought when you created the housing shortage we see in Sweden? What was the idea there? What solutions did you have to deal with this? There were no solutions. You had no plans, and there was no foresight. You created a situation you then demand that the Swedish Democrats go in and resolve. Of course, there are a number of different proposals we can implement in order to create better conditions in the situation we are in now. However, I think you should take responsibility for having actually created the housing situation we are seeing in Sweden today, Caroline Szyber. It largely makes it impossible for people to study and get the job they want. It makes it impossible for young people to get housing and the like. Should we go into concrete proposals, I have mentioned them. The focus must be on increasing competition so that more construction companies than three can compete for the procurements released from municipalities and others. We can't push prices unless more construction companies can get in there. We must create the conditions for smaller companies to have financial opportunities to participate in the award of contracts. It is also a question of regional aid to the municipalities, especially the smaller ones, in order to enable them to plan their housing. It is something you as a small municipality may not always have the same opportunity to do. We are also talking about other forms of mortgage against young people so that they can start saving well in advance. Of course, regulatory simplification is also an important point in terms of creating better conditions for faster building. So there are a number of proposals. I suggest you read our committee motion where we have everything put together, Caroline Szyber. But, above all, it is you and your party, the Christian Democrats, who have created the situation.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-77	Mr President, I would like to For the Center Party, jobs and housing are the most important means of reducing exclusion. This was the case before, and it is still very much true. We see an opportunity in that the people who come here for protection – and who may choose to stay with us to build a future – get as quickly as possible on suitable housing where they can get the opportunity to start working, learn Swedish and make contacts. The labour market and the housing market should both be seen as easy to access. By investing in small businesses, i.e. job creators, growth is maximised and we get results in increased entrepreneurship and better competitiveness for Sweden. With an additional workforce and more jobs, welfare, pensions, health care, school and care are secured. Without a population increase, that will not be possible, Mr President. Compared to the government, the Center Party reduces taxes by SEK 30 billion in 2016. Our budget therefore contains no increased appropriations for consumer policy and no economic doping in the form of housing subsidies. On the other hand, we stand by low taxes to hire young people, with a reduced employer's contribution, because it is precisely jobs in growing companies that are needed. We also propose that the first employee of a one-man company should be exempt from the employer's contribution for the first two years. Many construction companies are just one-man companies. Against this is the government, which has hit the construction industry with a cost shock of SEK 2.4 billion when 50,000 young people under the age of 25 have received double employment costs. For young people under the age of 23, employers' contributions triple. The government's target for housing construction is 250 000 new housing by 2020. That's far from enough. Even the Alliance's 60,000 homes per year are not enough. Rather, housing should double, now. In the next few years, perhaps close to half a million homes will be needed. Regardless of our housing policy objective, the greatest danger is that we do not have enough competitive companies with staff and know-how that will be able to build the housing we need. The construction industry needs a addition of young craftsmen, machine drivers, architects, construction managers and installers. They can be picked up in the young generation that is now attending school, that is, among those that the government makes it more expensive to have as employees. They can also be collected from those who are seeking to Sweden, i.e. those that the government intends to close the Öresund Bridge for and carry out ID checks of to keep outside the country. Mr President, I would like to The government's anti-youth and anti-job policies are dangerous for Sweden and risk locking young and newly arrived in long-term unemployment. For example, construction industries warn against having to dispose of personnel due to the reduction in ROT. Precisely the maintenance and conversion work that is suitable for a young carpenter, electrician, sheet metal worker or painter will perhaps dive at the turn of the year when the ROT deduction decreases from 50 to 30 percent. On the day the order for the villa or the multi-detached building comes, the staff may already be laid off. Mr President, I would like to The government is introducing investment aid. It is subsidies that, according to the report, are intended to promote housing and groups that are already supplied with housing – housing that would still have been built – in growth areas. The proposal is, if the term is allowed, seen by all parties related to the government and construction companies. The interest of construction companies in using investment aid is low, and where it has started to count on what it would mean, uncertainty is great. After all, no one knows how it will be designed and, pending that, many projects are still waiting. The government's confidence in support and subsidies is blind. Unfortunately, it also makes the Minister for Housing uninterested in listening to criticisms and suggestions from us who want to see short- and long-term measures for more housing. It's not over, Mehmet Kaplan – on the contrary! What about the Housing Planning Committee's proposal to legislate on regional responsibility for construction? And now that you're making sure to remove the county boards as the first instance to appeal to, why don't you do something about all the misappropriations that delay, increase and put an end to housing? The Swedish Parliament has decided that the government will return with new noise regulations that provide the possibility for more small apartments centrally in cities and urban areas where there is noise. When is the new noise regulation presented? It is about getting the housing needed now when people are forced to stay in asylum homes despite the fact that they have long since been granted their residence permit in Sweden and when students are forced to refuse the offered education every semester because of the lack of student housing. Talk to us about how municipalities can easily change in an old detailed plan so that you can build on one floor, decorate a basement storeroom for housing, install exterior lifts, change facades in connection with renovation and energy efficiency without having to start a long and uncertain plan process! Come back to the Riksdag with proposals to grant municipalities exemptions from the requirement to draw up a detailed plan each time, even though the buildings do not have a major impact, except that it leads to more people being able to get a place to live. Instead of investigating how the relationship between tenants and property owners can be further complicated, came back with suggestions on how more housing can be rebuilt and rented out in second place to someone who needs it – now! Switch taxes on housing and construction so that more housing becomes available with better mobility, with migration chains that make the cheapest homes available and where we avoid the housing bubble that many warn against. The Center Party wants a green tax exchange where chemicals, garbage, fossil fuels, plastic bags and toxins are taxed away from people's everyday lives and their housing environment. On the contrary, the red-green government is doing the opposite and is raising the tax on labour six times more than on the environment. The tax introduced on self-produced solar electricity affects private individuals and the housing sector, which is now at the forefront of the energy transition. Instead, we want PV support and energy storage to be stimulated with extended and increased support. Mr President, I would like to I have met many construction entrepreneurs who want to build energy- and climate-smart. There are municipalities that already show that they can take precedence, set an energy-efficient standard and promote construction in wood, for example. Unfortunately, the government is not on the track. Mr President, I would like to The Center Party wants to see a mobile housing market with lower thresholds, where the attitude towards those who want to build outside a planned area and also adjacent to beaches should be that Young people should be able to start nesting early in order to avoid being hampered by the banks' mortgage cap and amortisation requirements. In the longer term, housing policy needs to be changed and taxes to buy, own and sell their house reviewed. The lease must be reformed gradually towards more market-oriented rents but with continued strong property protection, protection against rogue property owners and sudden unjustified rent increases. Finally, Mr President, we in the Center Party choose to refrain from taking part in the decision on the budgetary framework for expenditure and refer to our specific opinion. I support reservation 8 on financing and access to open geodata. We want to speed up the work that is going on, not in the light of the need to be able to plan quickly for safe housing by giving more access to digital maps. I also support reservations 1 and 3.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-97	Mr President, I would like to For an average of 120 000 SEK the square meter is promised today villa feel, large terraces and classic Stockholm views on Gärdet. In another part of the city, 48 homes are built along the lake Mälaren beach, called Sjöstaden, a project with its own monogram. Some people get their own concierge. The prices are staggering. It's the millionaire program that's planned. The new projects are seeing the light of day at a time when we have a pressing need for housing for ordinary people. Prices have been running for several years without wages following. How are our cities supposed to function if ordinary professionals cannot afford to live? A friend of mine came into Stockholm University last year full of expectations of the new student life. She ended up in a black deal and in a second- and third-hand market. For fear of being discovered by landlords and neighbors, she snuck around the stairwells, and she owed gratitude to parents and friends who helped with the high rents. This Christmas, she'll pack her bags and go back to her parents' place. The situation became untenable. Now she's interrupting her studies. These are the accounts of the Reinfeldt government: dreams that are extinguished. Mr President, I would like to When the bourgeois government came to power in 2006, the investment aid for the construction of rental apartments was removed. It caused production to plummet. A lot of already planned rental projects were put in a grind bag. Despite an increasing population development, it was built less and less. Extensive sales and conversions greatly decreased the number of rental apartments. Now, in this budget, we are making a greater investment in housing construction than the bourgeois government did in both of its terms of office in total. We make the biggest investment in Sweden in 20 years. It is directed to rental apartments with affordable rents that most applicants can request. We cannot continue to build cities that only hold CEOs and PR consultants. Now we build homes for craftsmen, students, carers, nurses and bus drivers. The support increases the volume of housing construction, pushes costs and allows smaller companies to enter the market and build housing in Sweden. Evaluations of the previous investment aid show that two out of three rental apartments had never been built without the aid. This is also why the construction stopped when Fredrik Reinfeldt removed it. But we won't stay there. We are now also giving a substantial amount of money to the municipalities that are actively contributing to increased housing construction. It is important that municipalities are also involved in taking responsibility for developing land and using their municipal companies to remove the housing shortage. This also puts pressure on the rich moderate-led municipalities in the metropolitan regions, which normally block any attempt at new housing projects. For several years we have had a renovation grant for homeowners and tenant-owners. The tenants have only paid in, have not benefited from, a state renovation aid, and have been forced to bear the costs of the renovations all by themselves. We have seen rent increases of 50 to 60 percent in many places. These are increases in housing costs that cause many people to be torn out of their residential quarters. Boverket has shown that one in four residents moves in connection with extensive renovation. I was a few weeks ago in Gränby in Uppsala where LO-owned Rikshem has raised rents so much that LO members themselves cannot afford to stay. I met tenants who were forced to leave residential areas where they have lived for decades. We can't have that. Now we are making a substantial investment in rehabilitation, because the country's tenants are also worth it. We maintain the Swedish housing standard and ensure that everyone who wants to stay in their homes. Rental increases in connection with renovations will be curbed in the future. Mr President, I would like to When a shortage arises, it is also in the interest of the market to build the number of homes that generate as high a profit as possible. We get construction companies who therefore sometimes want to slow down construction, who do not really want to build up the housing shortage, because that could mean reduced profit margins for each unit. They simply benefit from the fact that the housing shortage still exists. It is a fundamental structural problem that policy must take seriously. If we mean that we should build on the needs that exist, the public must take a much greater responsibility for the construction. Our financial support for housing construction therefore also needs to be combined with increased public service responsibilities. Now the utilities will be able to emerge, make use of the historically great financial support that we are presenting today and build up skills for comprehensive and long-term new production programmes. A major active public interest is the key to breaking the unilateral brake of new production on the market. We can control it so that we get to grips with housing segregation and let people from different backgrounds meet each other in staircases, cleaning days and grocery stores. It needs to be clear to our municipal politicians that the law of 2011 governing the utilities should not be interpreted as short-sightedly and narrowly as it has come to do so far. The scope for action for our municipal companies remains very large. Mr President, I would like to At a time when everyone wants to paint pictures of crisis and collapse in Sweden, it is important to remind them that we are richer than ever. The Swedish economy notes growth figures that exceed all forecasts. These are historically high levels. Government debt is internationally low, and Sweden is doing better with our population growth in relation to countries with lower population growth. There is no reason for Swedish politicians to stand and sweat at gapy press conferences on refugee policy. We can afford each other. Now it is important to distribute the wealth fairly and direct the money into productive investments that give more people more opportunities in life. We see that we have a capacity in our reception of refugees that is not being exploited. I will now present two of the proposals of the Left Party to develop housing during the asylum period for our new arrivals. Firstly, v in tens of thousands of potential homes has detailed plans in our growth municipalities today. We want to allow the state to procure prefabricated dwellings that should temporarily be on the land that is still dedicated to housing. In the longer term, these can either be rebuilt to form part of the regular stock or moved to the next location. It can be anything from multi-family houses to single-plan villas that will be produced relatively quickly and delivered to our municipalities. The state will be responsible for the costs, and the municipalities will develop suitable land. The project is carried out in collaboration, and we can get up a large number of homes in a short time. Secondly, Boverket estimates that there are a significant number of premises in the country that could well be converted into housing. At the same time, the Swedish Agency for Civil Protection and Preparedness says that premises that could be put in place for asylum accommodations are not used today because the Finnish Immigration Service does not replace the actors for the preparation. The Finnish Immigration Service also requires that there are at least 15 places for the accommodation to be used. We believe that this is completely unreasonable. We want to completely remove the 15-place limit, simplify the regulatory framework and fully replace the operators for the preparation of premises. Old service facilities and nursing homes can be used, and our great peoples' movements, such as the People's House, trade unions with training centres and others, will have the opportunity to become the backbone of this work. Tens of thousands of new living places will be created while more people will have the chance to help. Mr President, I would like to We are now carrying out profitable housing investments that will make us even richer in the future, modernise the Swedish economy, increase equality and equalize life chances. Now we are building homes for ordinary people, for young people who want to leave home, for the LO family, for those who have lived in our country for a few months or in a whole life. We all contribute, and every one of us will have good opportunities to succeed in life. At this point, there is no reason to keep money high with wealthy moderate voters with billions in their account. Our efforts will make Sweden a better country to live in for everyone. I support the Left Party's reservation, No 4.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-123	Mr President, I would like to I do not think that there are very many people in our country who have billions in their wallets, but let us ignore that. I would like to make a couple of arguments with the Leftpa rtiets Nooshi Dadgostar. Firstly, it is a question of people's disposable income. During the previous terms of office, we worked hard to increase people's disposable income through the job tax deductions so that they could afford to demand other housing. All the statistics show that people have also got a lot more in their wallets. Nooshi Dadgostar commends investment aid, but in principle nobody in the sector is in favour of it. Positive are the S-led municipalities, the Tenants' Association and the Building Workers' Association. The property owners, SKL, Sabo, Stockholm County Administrative Board and Hans Lind at KTH state that there is a blow in the air. On what basis would this be the investment of all time in the housing sector, Nooshi Dadgostar?
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-126	Mr President, I would like to The increasing number of billionaires probably don't have their money in their wallets, but in their account, as I said. The Moderates want to introduce market rents. A survey from last spring shows that it would increase rents in Stockholm by 63 percent. In addition, several of the alliance parties, including the Moderates, talk about lowering entry wages. With 75 percent of today's entry salary and 63 percent higher rent, you get maybe 7,000 in your wallet and a ten thousand rent. It is the disposable income that becomes reality with the Moderates. How do the Moderates think that people will be able to pay market rent if they receive 75% of the entry salary? Ewa Thalén Finné must answer that question. Our policy is based on facts and reality, and we can see that without the investment aid that existed before, two out of three rental apartments had never been built. What empirical evidence do the Moderates have for their politics? Nor is it true that Sabo, or many of the companies with which I have spoken, does not want investment aid. Sweden's construction industry itself says in its reports that investment aid leads to the construction of more rental apartments.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-131	Mr President, I would like to I'll have to ask Nooshi Dadgostar to read our suggestions and motions. Nowhere do we propose a market rent. Let us agree on that. The Left Party is talking about lower entry wages. What we did was to reduce the costs for employers who hired new workers on the labour market. This is not the same as reducing entry wages, but has the same disposable income with the job tax deductions. You raise taxes on jobs, and you get lower disposable income. Let me get back to the grant. With the huge success of the initiative highlighted by the Left Party, new production was located in more than 30 000 apartments. Now it's 50 000 apartments, and we don't have any investment aid. There's something to think about. What I said was that the property owners, SKL, Sabo, Hans Lind and others find that the investment support is a blow in the air. Lund University says that the construction industry, like a drug addiction, was dependent on grants in order to perform. It is said that the industry has begun to recover and that it would be devastating if the construction sector were allowed to fall once again into an abuse of taxpayers' money. It is a pity that the Left Party cannot lift its eyes and look more at what is required for building clear land.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-137	Mr President, I would like to The Moderates seem very pleased with how they governed housing policy during their eight years at the government, despite the fact that we have a shortage of hundreds of thousands of homes. Are you, Ewa Thalén Finné, satisfied with what you did for housing construction during those eight years? That more is being built now than it did eight years ago is because more people live in Sweden. The share of rentals was much higher during the time we had investment aid. That's what all those people you say don't think the investment support is good. Sabo and the commons say so. They want support and have always asked for support for the construction of rental apartments. That's what young people want. That is why we are now making the biggest investment in housing construction that has been made in Sweden in 20 years. We cannot do what Fredrik Reinfeldt and your alliance government did in 2006. You removed the support. It is true that the construction of rental apartments was stopped. It's simple math, Ewa Thalén Finné. There is no escape from this. You haven't succeeded. You failed to build housing in Sweden. People have nowhere to live. It's not just young people or older people. They're normal families. Couples cannot be separated because there are no homes in Sweden. It is on your responsibility and on municipalities led by the Moderates who say no to new rentals. The Chairman of the Construction Board in Danderyd Municipality, Ewa Thalén Finné's own municipality of residence, says: The municipality has been completed. What do you say to all young people who now want to come to Stockholm to study? Are the Moderate-led municipalities completed, Ewa Thalén Finné?
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-142	Mr President, I would like to I'll start by congratulating Nooshi Dadgostar. You came to the House to discuss housing policy. This cannot be said of all parties that have so far appeared in the debate. Thank you for your post! You say again in your line shift that the government is making a record investment in housing construction. Nooshi Dadgostar's going for it. I mentioned in my speech that the government's cost shock to construction companies costs 2.4 billion annually. The cost of hiring young people in the construction sector doubles and in some cases triples. This should be set against 2.2 billion in housing subsidies. That's 2.2 billion compared to 2.4 billion. If I have understood the uncompleted regulations, this 2.2 billion will primarily be aimed at subsidising housing which would nevertheless have been produced in growth areas where rental apartments will still be built. They will possibly be leased to a presumption rent. But what is it that says that these dwellings should not also be rented into a presumption rent? What makes this support for housing increase the number of homes? What is it that says that these subsidies do not go to housing that would still have been built? Is it not better that the support goes to the people who need the housing so that they can get into the regular housing market?
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-146	Mr President, I would like to It is a pity that the bourgeois parties do not reflect on the housing shortage that exists today and why it has arisen. There is no self-awareness in this. For eight years we have had a huge deficit in housing. What is Ola Johansson's own analysis of this? When you removed the investment support, the construction of rental apartments was disrupted. These are statistics. What is Ola Johansson's own analysis of this? The aid is intended to cover the construction of rental apartments at affordable prices. This puts pressure on construction costs downwards. We have a big problem with high construction costs in Sweden. We're putting pressure down on it now. We make sure to give smaller companies muscle to enter the market. It will increase competition. We have evaluations from previous investment aid. They say that two out of three homes – this is the answer to the question of whether it had yet been built – had not been built without investment support. Almost all the developers in the evaluation say: Without the support, I would not have chosen to build these rental apartments at affordable prices. That's what the government is doing now. It goes in with the biggest investment we have made in a very long time in Sweden. There's a need for rents. That is what is being asked for. Our investment is six times as great as that presented by the Alliance Government last year. Ola Johansson has no answers of her own, but only complains about other people's solutions.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-150	Mr President, I would like to No, Nooshi Dadgostar, I'm not happy. Of course we need to find more housing. But alliance policy has produced results. The 40 000 homes a year that we discussed earlier have now reached. But we're not happy. We need to build more housing. We must continue the simplification work. The question is: What does Ola Johansson want to do? It is not subsidies and investment aid, but it is continued work on regulatory simplification. It is the kind of regulatory simplification that Nooshi Dadgostar has consistently opposed every time they have been up to decision. It has been about noise and possibilities to change in already existing detailed plans in order to seal and obtain more housing. Mr President, I would like to No, I do not believe in Nooshi Dadgostar when she says that this particular investment aid will lead to more housing. Above all, I do not believe that investment aid will lead to more housing for those who need it. The people who will move into the homes can largely afford to pay the rents that would have applied when these homes were produced anyway. The sum is a very interesting question. I note that 2.2 billion is not very much. With the confidence that the Left Party has in investment aid and subsidies, it would be interesting to hear Nooshi Dadgostar's assessment: What should a housing subsidy be if it were to have an effect? And above all, who will pay all these billions?
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-154	Mr President, I would like to Ola Johansson is now presenting her own project, which is the regulatory simplifications that you have been doing for eight years. It hasn't led anywhere. It's the financial statements. We're at the end now, and the text at the end of the film goes. There's nothing left. You need to change your direction. Old tire tracks don't work. Something new has to come. We know that investment in housing works. Sometimes one can think that the bourgeois parties, including Ola Johansson's party, do not want a state budget. Money doesn't matter. We don't have to spend any money on school. It doesn't matter. We do not have to spend any money on anything at all, because it does not produce results. Isn't that right, Ola Johansson? Don't you think it's a simple rule that's going to solve everything? After all, we can close down all areas of expenditure. We do not need to have a government that makes proposals in the Swedish Parliament. It is enough with the laws and rules that we already have. Or, I'm sorry, we need regulatory simplifications. We're gonna get rid of the laws and the rules. That is the alliance parties' proposal. Nobody wants money. It doesn't matter. That's not how it works, Ola Johansson. You know that if we put money into something, it will bring results. Today you can get up to half a million SEK to build a tenancy in Sweden with this state aid. That's quite a lot of money even for those who say they don't want it. It is strange, of course, that they say they do not want it, and yet every penny is being used in this state aid system. We've seen it before. Of course it will produce results. The hope is that it will increase in the future. This is the first time that the government, together with the Left Party, will hopefully get its state budget through the parliament. We'll see what happens in the future. The fear scenario would be if it were like the alliance government.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-160	Mr President, I would like to There are almost 500 000 apartments missing in Sweden. Liberals are probably the party in the Swedish parliament that really recognizes the need for a thorough and long-term reform of the housing market. We need more housing, and I dare say that we need more market thinking for the housing market to work. Today, the vast majority of graduates from universities find it harder to get a place of residence than to get a job. I know a young boy, Josef. He comes from a suburb to Gothenburg called Hjällbo. He'll be a doctor soon. He's gonna get a good paycheck. But he does not have the queue days for a tenancy or the 15% stake to buy a tenant-owner's apartment. He is one of Sweden's 350 000 involuntary mambors today. It may sound fun to be mambo, but it's not funny in reality. On the Liberal side, we have the answers, if I should speak to the Left Party. In order for Josef and all the other 350 000 young people to have an apartment, we need simpler rules, less hassle and shorter planning processes. The current regulatory framework hampers competition in the construction sector and leads to higher production costs and more expensive housing for people like Josef. We need long-term reforms of the housing market. This means, among other things, type-approved dwellings. We need fewer bodies in construction matters, and we need to change the rental market so that location, communications and options play a greater role in renting. Mr President, I would like to There is currently a complete lack of a crisis insight on the part of the government and the Minister for Housing. The government's response to the biggest housing policy challenge since the time of the million-dollar programme is a whole '70s policy with a multi-million-dollar grant to companies. Contributions do not go to individuals who find it difficult to assert themselves – not to the lone mother, but to the rich construction companies. They are the ones who are supposed to have contributions according to the Left Party, the Green Party and the Social Democrats. Somewhere we on the Liberal side say no to all the various subsidies proposed by the government. The reason is simple: Subsidies are fundamentally wrong-thinking and will disrupt the housing market more, with reduced construction as a result. Isn't it a little interesting that the Green Party, before they were in government, was against building subsidies? It is even the case that if you go back and read the various housing movements of the Green Party, you can see clearly that the Green Party really thinks like us. They are coerced by the Social Democrats in this. Moreover, it is worrying how badly the government listens to the social partners. They don't want any contributions. Only construction companies are closely linked to the Social Democratic movement, such as Riksbyggen, which wants the grants. I can promise you one thing: mismanagement of taxpayers' money will not solve any housing shortage. It is only pure changes in the housing market that can make. So we say no to all subsidies. This includes those who will go to municipalities and property owners to care for properties. Let me be clear: the responsibility for the care and management of real estate is not with the state. It is not taxpayers' money that should go to it; it is the owner's money that should go to it. The Minister for Housing's own State Secretary admitted in a recent debate with me that this contribution means that taxpayers' money goes straight into the pockets of those property owners and municipalities that are not doing well. It is in no way fair or solidarity, the Minister for Housing, that the municipalities that have not assumed their responsibilities should receive money and that the municipalities that have assumed their responsibilities should not receive it. With this policy, the government creates a culture in which property owners are encouraged not to take their responsibilities. It can't be right. At least that's not fair or solidarity-based. On the other hand, we in the Liberals believe that tax funds should be used for other purposes. Even when we were in the government, Sweden had among the second highest treasures in the world, although Nooshi Dadgostar believes that we were living in a night watchman's state during that time. We believe, for example, that tax funds can be used to contribute to the supply of buildable land. I can inform the government parties that the Liberals are spending more money than any other party in Sweden on land restructuring – 25 million more than the government is investing. So, yes, we dare to invest tax money. Instead of poor management of tax money that goes straight into the pockets of various companies, we want to introduce in the Liberals a fast-track premium for those municipalities that already have short processing times or that successfully cut them. In this way, the planning and construction work in the municipalities is made more efficient. We also believe that penalties should be imposed in the same way for municipalities which do not comply with the legal deadlines for planning and construction cases. We Liberals think that the move tax in Sweden is serious. We probably have the highest tax in the whole Western world – in the developed world. When, for tax reasons, a person chooses not to sell his or her home, this means that someone else cannot buy the dwelling. Aunt Agda, who is in her 90s and may want to move to an apartment with an elevator and the like, chooses not to do so because it costs more than it tastes. It cannot be reasonable for a small family of children not to enter an apartment just because we have moving taxes that lead to this. The lack of mobility and housing is estimated to lead to around 15 000 fewer jobs in Sweden – 15 000 unemployed. That is why in our draft budget, in the Liberals, we are reducing the removal tax by 1.3 billion. This is, the Left Party and Nooshi Dadgostar, real investment in housing policy that leads to housing. I want to be a little serious here. Housing construction is a very long-term initiative. It is therefore crucial that the regulations are stable and long-term so that construction companies dare to invest and that people like Josef and others get somewhere to live. On the Liberal side, we wonder: Where is the understanding of the crisis? Where are the own proposals that are not about subsidies? And where will the refugees live? When I talk to the Tenants' Association, they ask for cross-block calls. When I talk to Real Estate owners, they demand cross-block talks. When we speak to Mehmet Kaplan on behalf of the Alliance, he says it is finished. It sounds to me like we need to go back to the drawing board and think about who is the problem in Swedish housing policy. I dare say that it is the Minister for Housing and the Government that is the problem. I almost believe that there are more people who believe in aliens than in Mehmet Kaplan's housing policy today. I now turn to consumer policy during the one-and-a-half-minute speaking time that I have left. Liberals' view of consumer policy is that the individual should have power and the opportunity to make informed decisions based on their own wishes and not on the wishes of the Green Party. No social system other than the free market economy with clear rules of play and effective competition provides the opportunity for consumer power. But for the consumer to be able to exercise this power, knowledge and a free and transparent scrutiny of the market players that exist, where also rogue companies are stopped and prevented. This presupposes that consumers have good access to information. The role of the state is to enable consumers to make their own choices and to be aware of the consequences of them. But the state should not decide what consumers should do. The Green Party should not, and the Social Democrats should not, but the individual should. Nor shall I decide what choice consumers make. Liberals have been the driving force behind an active consumer policy. During the eight years that the Alliance ruled, we introduced, among other things, the Hallå konsument initiative. I am pleased that it was our liberal Minister Birgitta Ohlsson who launched the initiative. We are now looking with concern at the fact that the Red Green Government is returning to a consumer policy that is more focused on consumer governance than on consumer power. One expression of this is the proposal for a new consumer policy in which consumer power is completely absent. We therefore call for a rejection of the government's proposal for a new consumer policy objective. It is a clear expression of environmental-partisan guardianship policy where one believes one knows better than one individual individual does. On behalf of the Alliance and Liberals, I am pleased and proud that we are spending more money than the government does when it comes to consumer policy. We do not invest them in sustainability perspectives, but in reviewing the companies that are on the market. The rogue companies are going away. They have to go. On the occasion of the Liberals' budget motion, we have delivered a separate opinion. We will abstain in the forthcoming vote on the budget in area 18.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-182	Mr President, I would like to The Liberals spend more than 6 billion less on housing construction than the government and the Left Party in their budget exercise. Despite crying housing shortages and nine long years of bourgeois housing policy, the Liberals are driving on in old tracks: no renewal in sight. No housing shortage in the world will cause the Liberals to change their minds and think that perhaps we should invest one or another crown in housing construction. Is that correct? It is still zero crowns that apply. I can give this to Robert Hannah: It is brave to be a bourgeois housing politician today. Not only do you not seem to want to build new homes, but the Liberals now want to introduce market rents. There will be no rents, and those that exist today will be even more expensive. Nina Lundström, who only a few weeks ago was the spokesperson of housing policy receiving the Liberals, is very critical. She says: The goal is to abolish the tenant's common right to negotiations. The power over the rents will be transferred from the bargaining system of consumer power to the property owners. The possibility to appeal the rent is restricted. The rents of new production today provide good profitability. However, rents can be increased even further if current consumer power is abolished. Profits are increasing, but there is no indication that the construction of rental apartments is increasing. Instead, we get a rental market with rentals that are more expensive. Where should households with limited income live? It is therefore the question of the person responsible for the Liberals for housing policy just a few weeks ago. Market rents are not the solution to an overheated market with housing shortages. Market rents only benefit the rich," says Nina Lundström. Have the Liberals become a party for big companies running the rich's errands, Robert Hannah?
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-186	Mr President, I would like to I always say that knowledge is power, and knowledge is a bit of the Liberals' parade, because we are the school party number one in Sweden. The extreme parties in the Swedish Parliament are usually uninformed when they come here to the Chamber and are going to debate against me. Last time it was the Swedish Democrats, and today it is the Left Party. The Liberals do not have a proposal that means that it will be more expensive to live for those who have apartments today, but the proposal that has been put forward in the Swedish Parliament is that it should be free renting in new production, with property protection and consumer power. So Nooshi Dadgostar has read the wrong proposal or made up what the Liberals think on this issue. At the Liberals' national meeting a few weeks ago, an overwhelming majority of the party's politicians voted in favour of a change in the housing market. There is one simple reason: we are investing in housing policy. We're betting because it's necessary. We are investing in Josef, who I was talking about, to get a place to live, and he does not actually get a place with the radical housing policy of the Left Party. Liberals listen to the experts. We are not listening to our ideology on this issue. The OECD says that we must make reforms in the housing market. The UN says that we must make reforms in the housing market. The European Commission says that we need to reform the housing market. All the international authorities and bodies say that we need to make reforms in the housing market that do not involve housing subsidies, but this means simplification. A reform of the rental system itself is necessary in order to obtain housing. What we are proposing is free leasing in new production, and that is also what all international bodies are saying is the only way forward. I think it might be good to have knowledge and be informed about what the opponent thinks and about what the experts think instead of just listening to their own ideology when you come to the House.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-191	Mr President, I would like to It is a bit bleak that Robert Hannah accuses her own party colleague Nina Lundström of being uneducated in terms of the party's proposals. I note that what the Liberals are now presenting is a type of market rent. Market rents in Stockholm would mean rent increases of 63 per cent. Simulations show that the biggest rent increase would be for the tenants of my municipality Botkyrka south of Stockholm. It would be nearly 70 percent. One in the secondary market, which is currently market-driven, currently costs about SEK 9 000. At the same time, the Liberals want to reduce wages, we know that. 75 percent of your current salary should be paid. If we count 75 percent of the starting salary in Sweden today, it will be net 7 000 – 8 000 SEK. Then you have to pay your rent of 9 000 SEK according to Liberal market rents. Then how much is left, Robert Hannah? There's gonna be a minus there. Is it the queues to the social services that Liberals want to increase? Is that the point? The Liberals, this responsible party, saw the vulnerability of tenants on the market with housing shortages. How do the Liberals manage Bertil Ohlin's burning commitment to the tenants? He was the man who led a liberal party many times greater than today's Liberals. Has it become more important, Robert Hannah, for today's liberals to be a small party consisting of the hardest core, the most faithful? Is that the most important thing? Has the Party left Social Liberalism?
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-194	Mr President, I would like to I find it entertaining to sit in the Swedish parliament, because then you get to meet left-wing parties who sound a bit like Stalin when they talk. Let me be clear about what the Liberals actually think. First of all, the citizens of Botkyrka will not get higher rents with the Liberals' proposals for the simple reason that they already exist. What we propose is free renting in new production to get more apartments. It's the only way forward, according to all the experts. Bertil Ohlin might have thought so too, and Nina Lundström may think so in the future. Our proposal is basically to get more apartments. Nina Lundström will sign for us to have type-approved housing, for rental statistics and many other suggestions that you say she does not think is good. Let us be clear about what people have actually said and have not said. With regard to the reduction in wages, I would like to say that there are some who are reducing wages, because of the draft budget that exists. Liberals now have a new tax policy that reduces taxes. We want a tax reform that means quite a substantial reduction in taxes on labour. So it is also important to be informed about what we are proposing. Your own draft budgets that you have submitted to the Swedish Parliament mean higher taxes on work. Well, if there are any people who give reduced taxes, that's us, isn't it? Let us be clear about what this means. Liberals have a housing policy which means that it is better that people have jobs than that they do not. I meet refugees all the time who ask for opportunities to work and contribute. We need to increase the number of people employed in Sweden in order to be able to take care of those who are having a difficult time. The number of people employed needs to increase, and that is why the Liberals are investing in a job policy where more people are allowed to participate.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-200	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved. I have been sitting here for almost an hour and a half listening to speeches from the representatives of the Alliance and the Swedish Democrats in housing policy. I have listened to speeches about outstretched hands, after self-criticism and after a desire to take steps together for more of a long-term and sustainable housing policy. It is requested by voters and stakeholder organisations as well as the so-called market. Mr President, I would like to I listened particularly after this in the speeches of the Alliance representatives. I think it has been a good tone from many here, and I would particularly like to thank Mrs Szyber, who is chairman of the committee, for the tone she had in her speech. I think it was handsome. I also think that it was straightforward by Ola Johansson to start by mentioning which housing policy is also for. I believe that none of the parties can offer a strong government alternative, so it is a good position for more cooperation and cross-block solutions between the parliamentary parties. We want to see more of this in housing policy. Mr President, I would like to I think that there should be good opportunities to jointly develop a housing policy goal in the Riksdag. The new government wants to see this and invited the committee to a meeting last autumn. It was a good initiative to show that here we want to break up block politics and shape common goals for Parliament. I find it a little strange that the old government parties are unable to open up to a common housing policy objective. Instead, in the committee's report in the run-up to today's budget debate, they choose to reserve themselves in favour of the old government's housing policy objectives. We could have chosen to insist on a former social democratic housing policy goal, but since the new government believes in cooperation, our proposal is instead that the parliament should formulate a new goal that can remain over time. When the new government took office, the Prime Minister stated in his government declaration that the housing shortage is a national matter. It is not just a matter for municipalities and the market. Housing is being built today. Many homes are being built today, and that is a good thing. Next year, 53,000 homes are expected to be built. Yet it is not enough. It's built for a little bit of practically everything. Is this the fault of the new government? No, it's not. Is it the old government's fault? No, you can't say that. But the low level of construction worsened when the then support for housing construction disappeared. Boverket believes that housing construction has been inadequate since 2006. I do not believe that the debate on housing policy will benefit from debting each other. We must try to see how we can take joint steps forward. The government's own expert authority points to the fact that the combination of economic crisis and the disappearance of the support at the time led to the slowdown almost total. It has taken a long time to get up from those levels. Without the strong economic climate, it would probably have been very difficult. Housing is being built today. But there are too few small apartments, especially small rental apartments. The effects on those seeking a smaller apartment have been pointed out by other speakers in this debate. Those who are trying to find a first apartment today must exult when politicians in response to the question of how these homes will come about tell us that the medicine that we intend to prescribe is only regulatory simplification. Rule-simplifications are good. But more tools are needed to achieve long-term construction at a high level. Several of these tools are outside the remit of the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs. But there are some tools. The Government allocates SEK 2.2 billion for 2016, SEK 3.2 billion for 2018 and SEK 3.2 billion for 2019, in the form of investment aid for the organisation of rental and student housing. The old government parties and the Swedish Democrats propose zero crowns. The Government allocates support to municipalities for increased construction. It is to reward a changed way of working and will be based on actual housing construction. It is one way of saying to the municipalities that if they review their way of working so that we get increased housing construction, they also get part of state funds. The Government also allocates billions for this period: SEK 1.850 billion for 2016, SEK 1.8 billion for 2017 and SEK 1.3 billion for 2018 and 2019. The parties of the old government and the Swedish Democrats allocate zero crowns. The same applies to energy efficiency improvements, renovations of multi-detached buildings and outdoor environments and renovation of school premises. We Social Democrats think that simplification is a good thing. Maybe rule improvements are a better word. In today's debate, for example, we are behind regulatory improvements for a faster planning and building permit process with, among other things, shorter processing times. We want the government to make proposals for more legislative changes that can provide faster handling of planning and building permits cases. The government should also speed up the preparation of investigation proposals with this focus and provide additional investigation and authority assignments on issues that need further consideration. We also support regulatory improvements for more building permits-free measures. We have nothing against this. But there seems to be almost an overbelief in some parts of what exceptions to building permits for changing paint, facade or roof coverings against the yard, as well as planks and walls would provide in the form of new housing. As an example, we can take the old government's great freedom reform, as it was said when the Riksdag decided on the so-called Attefallshusen on 4 June 2014. I took part in that debate. The representatives of the alliance parties said that it would create 150 000 – 200 000 new homes. We Social Democrats had nothing against Attefallshus; we voted for them. But we have never seen them as a housing policy reform, as the old government did. I have allowed the parliamentary investigation service to look at the outcome of this freedom reform. The data from the Swedish Parliament's investigation service are based on the data provided by Byggfakta. According to them, 1 861 notifications have been made to build an Attefallshus between 1 July 2014 and November 2015. They are divided into 177 of the country's 290 municipalities. This means that no notifications have been received for the remaining 113 municipalities. Gotland, Kungsbacka, Borgholm and Täby peak. Reforms for owned residents, that put the Alliance a lot of time on. It is good to spend time also on owned accommodation. But the investigation to review how tenants' influence could be strengthened in rebuilding and renovation, it ran the Alliance in the paper trailer at the government headquarters only weeks after the turn of the government in 2006. Now the new government has set up a new investigation with similar missions. It is important to see the whole country, anyone who needs a home and how these tenure forms can develop. Several forms of leasing are needed. That is the view of this government. Mr President, I would like to Sweden is doing well today. Unemployment is falling and growth is showing strong growth in the last quarter. Housing is at a high level, but not high enough. Parliament's parties should be able to gather around more long-term stable conditions for housing construction. In that spirit, we should be able to cope with what is expected of us.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-221	Mr President, I would like to I had decided from the beginning to take a line on Lars Eriksson. Let's see how it goes. Lars Eriksson mentioned Kungsbacka. As a Kungsbacka resident, I can't help but pick up that thread. Kungsbacka is one of the municipalities around Gothenburg where rental rights are actually built, unlike in the red-green-controlled Gothenburg. There is little housing construction. It'll be handled by the crane municipalities. And they do so with some success. 500 homes per year are planned and built in Kungsbacka. 30 per cent of these are rental apartments. The aim was almost the most important point in Lars Eriksson's speech. Then I'll think of the strofen: and surely there's purpose and purpose in our journey – but it's the road, which is worth the effort. ..................................................... One of the roads that I think we should discuss – every step of the way is important – is the noise issue. It was prepared by the previous government. A proposal was referred where the target value for noise, the equivalent measured at façade, would be 60 decibels. Instead, the Minister and the Government present a noise regulation where the value is 55, and at a temporary dwelling, a student residence, the value is 60 decibels against that it could have been 60 and 65 decibels respectively. Lars Eriksson is as keen as I to find additional housing for students. Companies also need housing to recruit staff. Does Eriksson not think it is high time that the government came to Parliament with a proposal for more permissive noise regulations, as a step along the way?
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-226	Mr President, I would like to After all, the government prepares this matter in its office. We can assume that the government will also return to the Riksdag, as an announcement has been made from the Riksdag to the Government. I share Ola Johansson's great commitment that it should come to more housing, also housing that is aimed at – as Ola Johansson described it – young people and students. It is an issue that the previous government might not have got as far with as it had hoped. A proposal for more housing for young people and students was submitted to the Riksdag. It reported on the construction of student housing during parts of the alliance period. It may not be the funniest thing a student or youth has read in their lives. But at least we share the commitment that there will be more housing for young people and students. One way to deal with this is precisely what I set out in my speech. This is an investment aid for the construction of apartments intended for young people and students, which is also intended to enable them to live in these apartments with a reasonable rent. The commitment for young people and students to get housing is shared between me and Ola, of which I am absolutely convinced. I am also sure that, in a good spirit in this House, we can find common solutions to get there.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-230	Mr President, I would like to The question is being prepared, said Lars Eriksson. After all, it was prepared during the last parliamentary term. The proposal was ready. Just pick it up from the desk drawer. I'm sure it's somewhere in KD's office, so it's possible to e-mail all over the memo. There shouldn't be any major problems. But then this came with subsidies and investment aid. I maintain what I said at the turn of the line with Nooshi Dadgostar, that it is not likely that these homes will contribute very much to the construction of homes that would not otherwise have been produced. What ensures that investment aid and subsidies are directed towards those housing consumers who really need to have a tenancy right because they have low incomes and a small fortune – a tenancy right which, while expensive because it is newly produced, is still produced with investment aid? What is it that makes this rental right produced at the place where a rental agreement had not otherwise been produced? In what way does investment support lead to a construction in our small towns in rural areas where there is a need for housing, for example for the elderly? Then I would like to raise another issue that I think Lars Eriksson should take on board, and that is the beach protection rules. Does Lars Eriksson keep a system that prevents municipalities from planning for housing? It could be a ditch or a pond that has been laid down by the County Administrative Board that you have to dig? Many municipalities are prevented from developing LIS areas because the county administrative board says no. I would like to conclude with a few words from Karin Boyes's poem in motion: The new day is dawning. Infinity is our great adventure. .....................................................
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-235	Mr President, I would like to Ola Johansson raises the stake, so perhaps you should replicate the rhyme. But I haven't really prepared for that. The committee recently visited Boverket. There we had a good account of how Boverket works to help municipalities and others in order to increase their knowledge of how to work with the noise issue. The question is now being prepared within the Government Office. Ola Johansson has supported a government that had eight years. To then direct all criticism for everything that happens and does not happen during year one for the new government is a bit cool, I think. The new government should be given the opportunity to act. Then I want to make a reflection based on what Ola Johansson talks about. This is about investment aid. It is difficult not to take a line when Ola Johansson talks about investment support. The question then is: Do you really seriously believe that the million-dollar programme in Sweden in the 60s and 70s was built only because it introduced regulatory simplifications? Do not Ola Johansson and the other alliance parties believe that the state has a role to play in ensuring that the construction increases to the levels we are talking about now? Is it completely unreasonable to believe that a policy with the needs that now exist should only be about regulatory simplifications? I believe that the state – as the Prime Minister also says – together with the market, municipalities and other organisations have a joint mission here.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-240	Mr President, I would like to I'm not gonna be long-winded, but I have a short question for you. You talked a lot about the housing policy goal in your speech. In principle, I think that the objective of housing policy is not very important. The important thing is to get housing so that people have a place to live. The Tenants' Association, the Property Owners and virtually all market players want cross-block calls. What do the Social Democrats think about this?
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-242	Mr President, I would like to My brief answer to that is that the Social Democrats want cross-block talks. However, on the basis of the reasoning put forward by Robert Hannah here, I do not understand how it is possible to reserve for an overall housing policy objective. How is it possible to reserve the right to this goal and then take part in Parliament's debate on housing policy and try to lecture me and the Social Democrats for not wanting cross-block talks? I believe that the objective of housing policy is a symbolic one. Are you interested or are you not interested? If the goal of housing policy does not mean anything in the world of Robert Hannahs and the Liberals, then that is an excellent start to see what you are prepared to compromise on. If you do not think this is an important issue, you should be able to compromise. Then it should be possible for us to meet in this House in order to achieve a common housing policy objective. I do not understand, Mr President, how such a fierce criticism can be made of us. I wonder: Is there any interest whatsoever in having a housing policy objective and cross-block talks? I think I was incredibly clear in my speech on how we view cross-block cooperation. I have pointed out that the composition of this Parliament offers unique opportunities that Sweden has not had for a very long time. There is no major dominant party or bloc here. If it is possible to meet each other at some point in the history of the Riksdag in a way that enables us, as reasonably equal partners, to come to an agreement, it is now.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-247	Mr President, I would like to I very much welcome Lars Eriksson's reply. I think it's very important to have cross-block conversations. The only thing I said about the goal of housing policy was that it does not lead to any apartments or housing at all. The serious issues are type-approved dwellings, optional and out-of-choice rental apartments, interest rebates and the like. This is the kind of issue that leads to the construction of housing. That's why it's important that we talk about them. When it comes to what a housing policy goal contains, I do not think that the Property Owners or Tenants' Association are particularly interested in it. But given that Lars Eriksson came with an invitation, I would like to ask: What does Lars Eriksson think about the housing minister in a recent debate saying that it is over talk? He answered a question if you should have cross-block conversations. There are almost 500 000 apartments missing in Sweden. What does Lars Eriksson think about the Minister for Housing expressing himself so clearly and directly to an alliance representative?
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-250	Mr President, I would like to I have to say that what I appreciate about the Liberals – it is about the way you have been expressing yourself since the summer – is that you have opened up to have more of talks about housing policy. Then one becomes a little amazed at what the content of housing policy is all about and how much it can vary depending on who is the spokesperson of housing policy in a party. I appreciate that, however, and I see it as an extended hand from the Liberals to the Social Democrats when it comes to actually talking about housing policy issues. Robert Hannah points to several examples of housing policy issues or issues that have an impact on housing policy but may not be within the remit of the committee. These are questions that I think our parties can very well discuss. I am sure that the Social Democracy is completely open to doing so. We think it's good to talk to each other. We believe that it can contribute to solutions that can be of benefit to this country. We are putting forward proposals, which I have put forward, on how to deal in concrete terms with the lack of housing. I have reported billions of investments in housing policy. I have also noticed that the Liberals are zeroing in these columns. Then I think it may be a bit cool to say to us Social Democrats that we do not have a policy of increased housing construction. I think we do. I also believe that the Liberals have a policy of increased housing construction. I hope you will accept the extended hand that we have given you.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-253	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Lars Eriksson, for your speech. With regard to the objective of housing policy, I think it is important that it is not just us in politics who are discussing it, because what we are going to do is provide the conditions. I think you should look at a successful example. Then you can look at Germany. It is clear that the market, the parties that are there, is also involved in various ways. Like Robert Hannah of the Liberals, I believe that the goal of housing policy is something that we can sit down and discuss. However, just as the current government representatives have said that one cannot live in a regulatory simplification nor can one live in an objective. Objectives are good and something we should work for, but I do not think that is the most important issue. Then I would just like to say, for the sake of history, that there was a budget to which we referred. There were no housing policy objectives proposed in that budget. The government parties themselves had said that they wanted to invite to talk about it. That's how they got the Swedish Democrats to approve it and not support the Alliance's housing policy goals. I think it is important that we have that order. But I hope that the outstretched hand and the discussion on a housing policy objective can be something in the future. I think it might be a start to something. But again: I don't think we should have an overbelief in the goals, but it's important that we talk to each other. I would like to touch briefly on the Attefallshusen issue, which was mentioned. For me and for the Christian Democrats it was a reform of freedom. We never said that would be the solution to the housing problem. It'll have to stand for the individual. Then I can think it is a pity that a great many municipalities do not facilitate this reform of freedom. You still fight too much about paint on facades and make it difficult to build Attefallshus. We may have to discuss more how we work together against the municipalities.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-258	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Caroline, for your question! I appreciate you as chairman of our committee. You have a speech and a tone that I think is good for the debate on housing policy. But I'm sticking a little bit to the housing policy goal. Of course you can belittle it and say: You can't live in a goal. I don't think so either. But if you are serious about extending your hands and accepting stretched-out hands, this is an excellent question to start with, where you can start building trust between each other. That's how I've looked at the question. That is how the government sees it, too. It is an important issue to show that we can have conversations and get along. I find it very strange to reserve the right to have such a common goal at all. Then I would like to quote what a party friend of Caroline Szyber said in the debate that Parliament had when it adopted the proposal on Attefallshusen: I think that when you say it, you say that it is not just about people being allowed to set up a larger barn on the grounds where neighbors or friends who come to visit can stay. It is also part of a housing policy in which you actually say that it is in this way that you think that you should get to grips with the housing shortage.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-261	Mr President, I would like to Again, it will stand for my party colleague. I do not really know in what context it was said, but perhaps it was an expression of freedom. I think we need more of it in Parliament and less of guardianship. I think it is important that we discuss jobs and what it means for each job. Now that we're talking about how to build in the future, I think we also need to discuss how important it is to think about what materials you use. Should we talk about the whole of Sweden living and should we talk about that the big industries will remain in the future we may have to discuss more that we will build in wood. That would be one way of getting jobs in the wood industry. It would also be a way of speeding up the process. I don't think you should belittle these jobs. For example, should we build Attefallshusen, as it was intended, much in wood, I think it could create many more jobs, both for those who set them up and for the entire wood industry. I also believe that we should be honest about the fact that, with regard to housing policy objectives, we did not reserve ourselves against something concrete that was on the table, but reserved ourselves in favour of our own proposal. That is the objective of housing policy. I think you have to be honest in the discussion. In that case, the government will also be able to present what one could think of as a goal, and we will have to deal with it. It cannot be that we have no housing policy objective at all. In the budget presented, the government did not have its own option. Then we live our goal until further notice, and we think it is good. It'll still be our entrance to these talks. Then let me be honest: Yes, we need to build more. I believe that the case should be made much clearer. I think, once again, we also need to talk more with the industry. There's been too much number bingo. The industry must be in a position to build all the thousands of houses that we say it will build.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-265	Mr President, I would like to There is something that strikes me when I listen to Caroline Szyber's questions and when I listened to Robert Hannah earlier in the debate. It seems to be very dependent on who represents the Liberals and Christian Democrats in various debates where the emphasis lies in what is said. If the Christian Democrats' representatives in the debate in the Riksdag at the time of the adoption of the bill, on 4 June 2014, use the data as an argument for 150 000 – 200 000 of Attefallshusen to be able to come to, they also use it to signal to Sweden: This is part of our housing policy. We believe it will provide an answer to the question of how those who do not have a home can obtain a home. That is how I see the Christian Democrats in that debate using that argument. We Social Democrats voted in favour of this reform, not because we thought it was a solution to the housing shortage, but because we have nothing against putting up such houses in these forms on their plots. For us, it has never been an answer to the question of how to deal with the housing shortage for students and for those who get a job in this region and perhaps need to find a home quickly in order to take that job. That is not the way we have looked at that reform. Then I interpret Caroline Szyber's reasoning on the housing policy objective as that we can very well agree on a housing policy goal between our parties in Parliament.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-270	Madam President, I would like I would also like to start with Lars Eriksson's extended approach to cooperation and cross-block agreements. I note that for a year I have stretched my hand to enable us to make cross-block agreements, and I think that is fundamentally essential. We were then invited to the Ministry, but the only discussion we had was about the Parliament's housing policy objectives. Maybe that's not where we need to put our powers into our agreements. What I miss is what the government really wants. If it is also the case that the Minister for Housing has expressed in some debate that there is no more talk, it may not feel like the will is huge. Instead, we would have to agree on simplifications, such as removing the zoning plan, type-approval of houses and doing these real things. From this I would like to get into the subsidies. Nearly 50,000 homes are being built this year. Of them, just under 40,000 are in apartment blocks. More than half of these are rental apartments, and they are built without investment aid. Could it perhaps be that reforms for building clear land are an infinitely better way to go than proposals for doping construction companies?
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-274	Madam President, I would like Like Mrs Ewa Thalén, I believe that it is a palette of different issues that determine the success of housing policy. We have never ever argued that subsidies in the housing sector are the only true solution to increasing housing construction. We've never said that before. We have argued that it is a support to ensure that housing that would not otherwise be built is also built, and I ask the same question to Ewa Thalén Finné that I asked Ola Johansson: Is it your assessment that you can build in volume as an entire million-dollar programme, which is the need today, and that it would come about without the state doing anything other than adjusting in various regulatory simplifications? Does Ewa Thalén Finné think that this is how the million-dollar program grew in the 1960s and 1970s? Does Ewa Thalén Finné think that this is how they broke with the old Poor Sweden, when they bought homes with vvs and electricity that raised the Swedish standard of living and, I would say, is one of many reasons why we are becoming as old as we are today in Sweden? There can be many views on different aspects of housing policy, but the fact that the state has a responsibility on more issues than just adjusting in regulatory simplifications, I still think we would have to agree on.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-277	Madam President, I would like I am a little fascinated when Lars Eriksson highlights the million-dollar programme and says that the state then had a great responsibility. Yes, the government did. Then, of course, all planning was government, and we had extremely rigid regulations. I think we can agree that we are not interested in building new million-dollar programme areas, at least not as they were built in the 1960s and 1970s. At least I hope we agree on that. Well, actually, I think a lot of simplification is the way forward. We now see that people believe in more than 50 000 homes in 2016. I remember when we had debates in 2003 and our dream level was 40 000 homes. Look at New Zealand! There you have removed the detailed plan, you have a master plan and go to building permits. Germany has much faster planning, and new players are allowed in. We can see today that there is a great deal of innovation and innovation in this sector, and I am concerned that this innovation will disappear. You don't have to try to think again if the government puts that extra on top. It benefits the big ones who make big profits while the small ones will not apply for these contributions, because it is too cumbersome. We need ground ready for construction. We need to let new players in. I am sure that much of the regulatory simplification is doing this, and I find it interesting, as I said, that virtually everyone in the sector is against investment support and you are positive.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-282	Madam President, I would like As I said, it takes a whole palette of various proposals to come up with a housing building that is high over time. I fully agree, and I think we are several parties here who can find each other in such a discussion. I also believe that there are problems in overcoming the lack of housing. One of the obstacles that exists but which no one has yet pointed out here more than the Swedish Democrats, and then in the negative sense, is that there is a lack of capacity in the labour force. No one's really touched that. If you look at the need for labour and what there is for educated people who literally walk into our country now, it will be a huge resource for the country to cope with the great community-building project that it is actually about being able to build homes that can work for anyone who now chooses to come here and enrich our country. Competition has also been raised by a number of people here. It is also an important issue in this, and it cannot of course be about lower wages for those who are going to work on the Swedish labour market being the solution to bring down the costs of housing construction. I do not think that those who work in the construction industry have it too well ordered and that is the big problem. I therefore believe that there are a number of solutions to this. We have presented several of our proposals, but the big and important issue for us is that the state cannot just leave this to the market.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-286	Madam President, I would like Today we are debating the civil committee's report 2015/ 16:CU1 Area of expenditure 18 Community planning, housing supply and construction, and consumer policy. It is a budgetary area which is not only extremely important but also historically this time. The efforts of the Red-Green Government in this budget are a clear signal of responsibility and that the government takes the housing issue and the housing shortage seriously. I would therefore like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal in the report to be approved, and I am not pleased to note that these efforts are now more necessary than ever. It is with the realization that it is because the previous government has chosen to turn a blind eye to the problem that the housing shortage is as great as it is today. There is a question that is a large part of my political commitment, a question I keep coming back to, a question I keep getting and a question I wish I had not had to answer. It is an issue that I had been growing up hoping politics would solve until I became big. But that was not the case. I am therefore proud to say that my government actually chooses to answer this question. Now, Madam President, you may wonder what kind of question this is. Yes, that is the question: Who will build for those who cannot afford to ask for what is being built today? Who will build for those who do not have a fat wallet or the opportunity to take out a loan? Today it is being built more than ever. The numbers are pointing up. The figures for next year also indicate that there will be even more building. That's good. We need to build more than we do today. But the question still remains: Who will build for those who cannot afford to ask for what is being built today? That group is just getting bigger. When the reality is different from the landscape that politics has chosen to create, in a landscape where the market is going to solve everything, reality is quickly catching up. At this time, 300 000 young people were also involuntarily outside the housing market last year. That figure has not fallen. The housing shortage for students at the country's higher universities is increasing, and the proportion of those who desperately turn to social services to get help with shelters is increasing. Who will build for those who cannot afford or, for that matter, the opportunity to ask for what is being built today? If we look at Boverket's statistics, it's proven the only thing that helps support. This is a financial aid for the construction of homes that are not currently being produced. These are housing for those who cannot afford to buy a share in a newly produced right-of-occupancy apartment or pay the rent in a newly produced right-of-occupancy apartment. I believe in migration chains, migration and movements in the existing stock. But the problem remains when the supply of housing is less than demand – at least the supply of housing for the group that is unable to demand what is available. When everything is about making as much money as possible, the state must take responsibility for those people who otherwise end up outside. In times such as these, investment aid is therefore necessary to create the homes on which the market does not earn enough money and therefore does not choose to produce. Our government chooses not to turn a blind eye to the problem, but instead takes it very seriously. Madam President, I would like 50 years is a long perspective for most, but a highly relevant perspective for those who build a house. It is a perspective that for a child is incomprehensible, and for an adult it is far too far away. In 50 years, I'll be 77. Then maybe I live in a house that is being built today, a house that I hope is well-functioning, nice, charming and a good 10-century house, as we will call it then. It's supposed to be a house that, with the help of smart architecture during its life, has served as a student apartment, school, office and finally become a nice collective for me and my beautiful pensioner friends. But that requires that the house that is being built today has a long-term perspective. The house we are building today will work just as well in 50 and preferably 100 years. If we choose not to build that way and do not think long-term, it is a bad investment. We need to build for the future. Then the house should be built so that it should not have the goal of giving as much profit as possible in the short term. Building a cheaper cardboard box that requires huge warming is not building for the future. We need to take responsibility for the future so that there is housing and so that construction affects the climate as little as possible. We therefore need to ensure that responsibility is taken in the construction phase, in the use and finally in the removal of a house. A house will be built from sustainable materials. We have heard this earlier in the debate by the Christian Democrats and the Center Party, which is gratifying. The material should be able to be reused and have as little climate impact as possible. Wood is a material. That is what we know today, but I believe that the research will show many new such materials in the future. A house should minimize its need for heating and preferably produce electricity. A house should be able to be used for a variety of purposes. In the end, in about 100 years' time, the house will be easy to take down, and the material will be useful elsewhere in the chain. Madam President, I would like The calculations made in housing construction therefore need to be done with a life cycle perspective. Policy needs to encourage this. Never has the housing issue been so hot. Unfortunately, the reason is not only positive. The lack of housing is increasing. Households' indebtedness as well. Although the problems are enormous, I am glad that we are in the government. It is a government that dares to see the problems and do something about them instead of turning a blind eye and hoping that someone else will solve them.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-301	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask Emma Hult about national interests. Emma Hult has exercised that protection of Lake Vättern's water should be a supreme national interest. The Swedish National Audit Office has concluded that national interests make it difficult for municipalities to build housing. This is something that Emma Hult seems to want, given what she has said in the speaker's chair. 60 per cent of municipalities state that national interests are aggravating. 55 per cent of Sweden's area is currently covered by national interests. Yet Emma Hult is exercising that the whole Vättern will become a supreme national interest. The national interest inquiry has now landed, and this will lead to more categories being introduced and more areas will be covered by national interests. Will the Environmental Party support the proposals in the investigation, and will it contribute to the introduction of more national interests in Sweden?
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-304	Madam President, I would like We have not yet taken a position on how we will look at the investigation's proposals. It is good to once again be allowed to debate my motion. This is the third time we in this House have debated drinking water as a national interest. Why it is so important that drinking water becomes a national interest is that drinking water supply is crucial for all human life. In fact, I cannot equate the national interests that exist today with drinking water. This means, for me, that perhaps there are national interests today that are not as valuable as drinking water should be.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-306	Madam President, I would like SKL is led by a social democratic councillor from Linköping, Lena Micko. She says the investigation needs to be thrown into the garbage can. It simply needs to be redesigned because it is not good enough and will lead to more national interests. It will lead to more than 55 per cent of Sweden's surface area being covered by national interests. It is simply considered wrong. I would therefore like to know what the Green Party thinks of national interests. Should it be the case that 55 per cent of Sweden's surface area, the whole of Gotland, entire municipalities, the entire Norrbotnia railway cannot be built because there are national interests that span the entire area? What is your general input value? Should there be more or fewer national interests? Should non-unique areas be allowed to be national interests? Is it the opinion of Social Democratic Commissioner Lena Mickos that should apply? Do you want to do it again, or do you want a new investigation into the matter?
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-309	Madam President, I would like I didn't think we were going to debate national interests today, but now we are. As I said in my previous line, the Green Party has not yet taken a position on that investigation. That is why I have no answer to the question. However, I was in Kiruna two weeks ago. It is a city that really has the same problems as Stockholm. Kiruna has also produced a map that in an exciting way shows which national interests cover the area. It is the mining industry, the reindeer industry and other areas with natural values that patch over each other. It's a city that depends on the mining industry. It is a rural area that is dependent on reindeer farming. It is very interesting to see how these areas collide. The city needs to be moved in order for the mine to develop. The city is falling apart. If the city is not moved, the mine cannot develop either. Then the city won't be around. But it is not possible to move the city because virtually all the land around is of national interest. Of course I find it problematic. Once we know what the investigation has landed in, we know more, but we have no answer today.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-314	Madam President, I would like Emma Hult is asking a legitimate question. Who will build for those who cannot afford it? I choose to pick out part of the sentence, and then I ask the question again. Who's gonna build? Should it be the construction companies, those who suffer from declining ROT deductions, and also suffer from the government's 2.4 billion tax shock? It's just part of the tax shock to hire young people. In return, the government should take responsibility for doping companies that are already making money in markets where they are already active, by handing out money to build homes that would already have been built. With this policy, I do not think that the question that Emma Hult asked, even in her full length – who will build for those who do not afford? – answered by the subsidy. There is nothing built into the system that says that these homes should be used or specifically targeted at people who would still not be able to afford to pay the rent. I therefore choose, although I have 44 seconds left of my speaking time, to once again ask the question that Emma Hult asked: who is going to build the homes?
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-318	Madam President, I would like I do not know if the second-last thing Ola Johansson said was an attempt to poke me for my brief speeches in the Chamber. I believe that we should spend our time on what is absolutely most important and not take all the time that is at our disposal here. I feel a little sorry for the Committee on Justice, which is last on today's list of speakers. We had set aside 1 hour and 54 minutes for this debate. We're almost up for two and a half hours. I think you should take the time you need, but you don't have to talk more than necessary. Who's going to build? Yes, it's the construction companies. I believe, and the government also believes so, that construction companies should build housing more than they should renovate kitchens that were renovated five years ago. Therefore, we choose to redirect the money that goes to the ROT deduction to create new housing for those people who today are not able to demand the housing available on the market.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-320	Madam President, I would like Yes, Emma Hult, I'll be brief too. Although it seems to me that investment aid is in any way good, I believe that the major problem is not just that it controls costs and affects the market cost driven by the fact that these homes would still have been built. Now they may be built at a higher cost because the subsidies are available. The big concern is where the money is taken. The money is taken from the ROT deductions, which I believe to know that the Green Party and Emma Hult have been in favour of but which are now being reduced. It's not just about new kitchens. It's about energy efficiency. It's about taking care of the stormwater so it doesn't run in and hurt the house. It's about renovating the house, which means that you might have room to decorate an apartment that you can then rent out in second place. It's an amazingly cheated propaganda, all the weird things around the ROT deductions. It's a little strange that it comes from Emma Hult, who I thought liked this. This will affect those companies that will not be able to take part in social housing in the housing markets where housing might not have been built because they are not considered attractive enough. It is not possible to build in a noisy location on the railway. It is not possible to build at the beach where there are attractive accommodation opportunities. These are the markets in which housing companies choose not to be present. The construction companies that are there and sometimes build a single house are the ones that in many ways live on the ROT deductions. I'm still asking, if we're going to build homes all over the country, who's going to build?
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-326	Madam President, I would like The housing shortage is now a reality in all Swedish municipalities, so I think we will see construction. I hope that we will see construction in all Swedish municipalities. What the state chooses to support is the construction of housing that we see has not been built. That it would be cost-driven that we choose instead to set a rent-level ceiling, I find interesting. We haven't removed the ROT deduction. If we are to call it a propaganda debate, it is something that the bourgeois representatives have chosen to spread. It is a rumour that has passed, and I have also heard it in the debates. We haven't removed the ROT deduction. We've reduced the ROT deduction. The companies that are currently active in the electricity industry and other industries such as vvs will also be needed when we are building the new homes in Sweden. We need to draw electricity and build bathrooms and toilets in those houses as well. And you, Ola Johansson, mention energy efficiency! When there is support of 1 billion in the budget for that particular measure, you say that by reducing the ROT deduction, the Green Party does not think energy efficiency is important. That is precisely what we show that we think it is, Ola Johansson.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-331	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by thanking you for a lively debate. Above all, I would like to thank the Chairman of the Civil Affairs Committee, Caroline Szyber, for her openness and retrospect with a well-founded self-critical approach. I would also like to thank you for allowing us here to take the next step in the housing policy that is needed for Sweden. When I took office with the government just over a year ago, it was a completely different climate for debate. All those who today beat their chests that they have wanted to cooperate were then in different ways very closed to take any step towards a climate of cooperation. As a result, we basically lost a year of opportunity to move forward together on one of the greatest issues of our time in Swedish domestic politics. I am also very pleased that we have such a strong proposal in the budget for the area of housing policy. I intend to address a number of these issues. I think that those behind the budget – the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party – and their representatives here have made it exemplary how this work will take shape in the future. In the 2016 budget, we have investment aid for the organisation of rental housing and student housing. The aim is to increase the new construction of small climate-smart rentals with reasonable rents. The support is SEK 2.2 billion. For 2017, the idea is that it should be SEK 2.7 billion. For 2018 and onwards, the investment will be permanent with SEK 3.2 billion per year. We have an incentive for student housing. We know that young students are particularly vulnerable in the housing market because they often lack the financial assets and contact networks needed to obtain permanent housing. In the 2016 budget, SEK 300 million is allocated as a special incentive to quickly constructed student housing. We have support for the municipalities for increased housing construction. The grant may be used for state grants to municipalities that contribute to increased housing construction. In our view, we have an extremely strong opportunity here to change up the work that many municipalities have actually contributed over the last few years in the wake of an extremely important challenge which means that we must ensure that more housing is put on the market, especially the type of housing that has not been built enough of the last few years. The budget proposal for 2016 therefore allocates SEK 1.85 billion to the support. In 2017, SEK 1.8 billion will be invested, and from 2018 onwards, the idea is that support will be permanentized at SEK 1.3 billion per year. In order to facilitate the transition to an energy system based on renewable energy, it is crucial that the energy use of the built environment is reduced. I was at the climate summit in Paris on Thursday, where we were told quite fresh figures: by 2050, what the buildings represent in carbon dioxide emissions is estimated to be 50% of the total emissions. Today, this figure in the world is around one third, 33%. In Sweden it is 20%. We have an enormous responsibility in terms of climate change: that the built stock takes greater responsibility and that those who own and manage but also build new ones have this perspective in mind. The major challenge in the housing sector is therefore to speed up renovation and to make the existing stock more energy-efficient. Today, a large part of Sweden's housing stock is more than 50 years old, and the need for renovation for the so-called million-programme areas from the 60s and 70s is extensive. Financial support for property owners in areas with socio-economic challenges enables them to reduce energy use and improve the living environment through renovation and energy efficiency measures, while protecting tenants against excessive rent increases. Supporting the regeneration of outdoor environments creates opportunities to take a holistic approach to entire residential areas and strengthen links with the surrounding region. This will create opportunities to increase the quality and comfort of the accommodation. In the outdoor environment, it is also important to create meeting places and increase accessibility to basic services. The budget bill for 2016, which the government has worked together with the Left Party, contains SEK 1 billion, and the billion will return in the next few years. Investment support for housing for the elderly is another initiative. It is about demographic development, with an increasing number of older people in need of adapted housing, which we are looking at. The demographic tree also has a relatively profuse crown. That is why we need a financial contribution from the budget. There we make a permanent investment per year with SEK 400 million from 2018 onwards. Before that, we have SEK 150 million for next year and SEK 300 million for 2017. In addition to these efforts, we have seen the need to set additional funds for those municipalities that know that land remediation could detach plots in central locations. This is why the government is proposing an investment in land remediation. In order to benefit from the aid, the municipality must use the decontaminated land for housing construction. This appropriation is in Category 20. In the budget proposal for next year SEK 300 million will be allocated to the support, for the following year another SEK 300 million and from 2018 onwards the investment will be made permanent with SEK 200 million per year. Madam President, I would like All this has been said, basically it is about figures and wishful thinking based on different inputs when the actors try to look forward. Looking forward, we have two choices. One is to think that what has been good. I believe that the representatives of the former government parties whom we have heard today have completely departed from that principle. There is a self-critical review, and that is something that opposition has the opportunity and time to work with. On the other hand, we who sit in the government have a responsibility to help those municipalities that have housing responsibility. Moreover, in many of the municipalities around the country, the party colour cannot pre-determine the type of government you have. It is therefore gratifying to hear that the municipal discussions have found their way to this House, that is to say that it is not primarily looking at whether it is a left-wing party, moderate, environmental partyist or Christian democrat sitting on the same side of the table but that it is the result that counts. I have been sitting in Parliament for two terms of office, and I know that throughout the last and last term of office there was no longer a single longer discussion of cooperation across the famous so-called block line in the area of housing policy, as the representatives of the previous government probably also know. When the Christian Democrats held the Ministry of Housing that I currently hold, there was little cooperation. It is therefore gratifying that there is now such an entrance to housing policy even from those parties that, when they were themselves in government, did not work very much for cooperation. Like Lars Eriksson, we need a new climate of cooperation in a parliament that has really looked like this since 2010, where there are no clear majorities. Probably things needed to get worse before they could get better. The government has a clear focus on housing policy, and I am pleased that we can now look to the future despite the kind of rhetoric that I was probably a part of before.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-352	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Housing, for participating in the debate! It's very nice. My question relates to the construction that is needed in connection with the massive increase in the population. The difference is great between Sweden's democrats' and the government's immigration policy. The Swedish Democrats believe that we can better help more people in the immediate areas, those who are not able to come to Sweden, while the government instead wants to help a few in Sweden. If we ignore this discussion, we are faced with the fact that many homes need to be built. The question is, who's gonna build them? Is it the municipalities that we know are facing an assumed situation where, according to SKL's forecasts, they need to increase the tax by SEK 2 for a couple of years to come? Who is going to pay the rent for the homes these people are going to move into? We know that it takes about seven years for a person who comes to Sweden, i.e. a new arrival, to enter the labour market. We have 7% unemployment in Sweden. This means that the new arrivals will largely not be able to pay their rent on their own, but will be able to make use of local government support. It affects municipalities that we know are already having a difficult financial situation. Building costs a lot, and supply support costs a lot. My question is: who should pay to build and pay rents for all these people?
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-357	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking, Roger Hedlund! I have studied the texts of the Swedish Democrats in this part, so it was good that Roger Hedlund kept to them, in addition to an initial preludium, and raised the question to the right level. I am pleased that the previous shift was marked by Roger Hedlund's humility when a Member of Parliament who requested a reply to him told us what we were actually discussing. When we debate housing policy there are, above all, two entrances. One is municipal housing responsibility. The municipalities have that responsibility. You can relate to it in different ways. It can be said that it is solely the responsibility of the municipalities and that they can manage best they want. We have seen how that kind of policy – here I do not want to point out any particular government – has resulted in municipalities having to count on different bags all the time to find ways to what to build and what kind of land policy they should have. The government's idea is to support the municipalities in this. We know that what is being asked for is building ground and regulatory simplification. Building land can be managed by municipalities – especially those municipalities that have already shown that it is possible – on their own if they receive strong incentives to manage it. The second main track is about the state's investment in infrastructure. There we have the Swedish negotiation, which is going on with unabated force. It is an initiative that the old government had and which we thought was very good. We continue to work on this issue, and that will make the total cake bigger.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-361	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Housing, for the answer to the question! However, I am not quite satisfied with the answer. The outcome of Sweden's negotiations will not be seen until much later, and today we are facing a housing crisis that needs to be resolved. This is not something that can be arranged in a short time. Madam President, I would like It is the government that is most responsible for the immigration policy that we see in Sweden today. You must have a forward-looking approach to housing policy, Mehmet Kaplan. It is not the intention of the government's housing policy to mean that we have tent camps in Sweden or that we should use caravans to house people. Surely one must have some kind of foresight when it is said that we should have the great immigration into Sweden that we have seen above all in recent months. The question is: how do we solve this short-term and long-term? We are very behind now because it was 2003 that we last had a balance on the housing market. A huge building of housing is needed – probably a new million-dollar programme – especially given that we are talking about perhaps 1 million newly arrived refugees to Sweden in the next few years. We know that a million-dollar programme costs a huge amount of money. That is not enough investment aid and the like, as we see in the government's budget today. It is not enough with regulatory simplifications, negotiations in Sweden or other matters, but it takes enormous sums of money to shoulder the responsibility that you have assumed, Mehmet Kaplan, in that you have said yes to the extremely large immigration to Sweden.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-367	Madam President, I would like I thank you, Roger Hedlund, not for once again raising immigration as an extremely important part of this issue, but for remaining within the relatively spacious framework of the budget debate. I would like to mention what is actually about the budget and which the Swedish Democrats either hope that no one will read or believe that the reader does not understand. It's about investor grants for student housing. The Swedish Democrats claim that the party wants to facilitate increased building of student housing by introducing state financial support to the municipalities. It is not clear from the motion how much the financial support should amount to, which in itself may be a conscious shortcoming, because then you do not need to specify the money. At the same time, the party proposes that the Government's investment support for the organisation of rental housing and student housing be abolished. I can't get it together, and I don't know how the Swedish Democrats get it together. When it comes to simplifying building standards for student housing, the Swedish Democrats believe that it will be cheaper to build properties – the properties they claim to want to support but for which they cannot show any money. The Swedish Democrats also want to change the elevator standard for student housing. It is also a lapsus – or not – that they claim would make it cheaper to build and create more student housing. At the same time, we know that the elevator directive and other types of access points are something that we do not compromise in this Parliament. I do not understand how the Swedish Democrats think about this either.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-374	Madam President, I would like I would like to start with what the Minister for Housing said about cooperation and cross-block agreements. I note that in last year's housing debate I asked for this several times. I was so kind that my colleagues almost thought I was too nice. It is a little fascinating to then hear that in other debates the Minister for Housing has told us that there is now no more talk. It does not sound like we want to cooperate even though we tend to claim that we are a government of cooperation. I was going to enter into the investment subsidy, which is sometimes presented as the biggest investment in housing construction in 20 years. What I find so interesting about the initiative is that there are some positive voices – S-led municipalities, Tenants' Association, Building Workers' Association and some other actors – but that the large group is negative and does not demand this. That's everything from country reports from the European Commission and the OECD – nobody points it out. The property owners, SKL, Sabo and Länsstyrelsen in Stockholm County call it a blow in the air. Hans Lind thinks it's the wrong diagnosis. Stellan Lundström at KTH calls it a waste of tax money. My question must be: what is your conclusion from this devastating criticism of aid, Mehmet Kaplan?
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-379	Madam President, I would like I thank Mrs Thalén. It is important to discuss the issue on the basis of several points of view. One is about what the alternative cost is. Where should we take the money to be invested in the construction of small rentals with low energy consumption levels and reasonable rents? We have proposed an adjustment to the ROT deduction which reduces the proportion from 50% to 30% of the labour cost. This does not mean that the ROT deduction is gone, but that money that has gone to rebuild, build and renovate the owned property will now go to the construction of rental rights, in particular the type of rental rights that people with normal income can demand. It's an entrance. Another position is about what the alternative is – what you would do for this money. There we see that Ewa Thalén Finné's party does not really bring forward much more than continued regulatory simplification work. But we agree on that, Ewa Thalén Finné. I have gone through the texts, and what I see is that we want to shorten the appeal proceedings. Check– we have done so; we propose it to Parliament. Simplifications are proposed for student housing and housing for young people. There, the methods seem to vary, but basically that's the entrance we have. There are some issues relating to noise rules in line with the Noise Coordination Investigation proposal. What distinguishes is, as was mentioned earlier in the debate, relatively small changes. I don't really understand what the differences are.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-385	Madam President, I would like As far as regulatory simplification is concerned, I think, just as I was concerned, that the Minister for Housing often talks about such simplifications but that, once proposals come, they are usually minimalist. We would have liked to have gone one step further in relation to noise and appeals, among other things. You'll see when we make our moves, Mehmet Kaplan. I'm gonna get back to investment support. Lund University is similar to the construction sector in a drug-dependent industry that has been dependent for a long time on different forms of grants in order to perform. The university says that the industry has begun to recover, but that it would be devastating if the sector were now allowed to fall back into abuse again. What I am really concerned about as regards the aid is what I was thinking about, the innovation that we have begun to see. There are examples where good and cheap rentals are built, but I am afraid that the proposals will completely kill this. The money will go to the large housing companies instead of taking a strong stance and thinking about it. We have had debates about it in the past: slump detailed plans! I would like to hear a little with the Minister for Housing: there was a reason why the noise regulation was not taken forward. It was connected to the fact that it was so negative referrals. That is why a minimalist proposal was made there too, precisely because of the negative referrals. What is the conclusion now of investment aid, where it is only negative referrals?
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-390	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mrs Ewa Thalén, for the follow-up questions. First I would like to answer the questions, and then I would like to mention some strange passages in what Mrs Thalén mentioned earlier. I'll start with the answers. First of all, we have had the investment support out for a referral. That is how a government needs to work, and Ewa Ewa Thalén knows that. Of course, the referee will change his mind. There will be details of what needs to be changed. There have been such, for example, when it comes to benchmarks on rents. Some construction companies argue that the rent should be increased so that the economy can be turned around. Others argue that we should change the square meters in the calculation of investment aid. Still others have comments on other elements. This is quite natural and normal, and the government is now working on compiling the work that will lead to us having investment aid, which is the kind of support that is requested not only by – I do not know if it was Ewa Thalén Finné or anyone else in the opposition who said it – the social democrats associated companies. That person will later have the opportunity to explain what he means by it. With regard to the second part of my speech, it is about what Ewa Thalén said in the speaker's chair. She said that the leasing system should be adapted to the housing market conditions. What does that mean, Ewa Thalén Finné? Do you want market rents or any other system, perhaps like what the Liberals later may advocate? Or is it something completely new that we have not heard what it is about? Then there is the claim that there is no need to work innovatively if there is investment aid. I do not even want to respond to that, because that is such a strange statement.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-395	Madam President, I would like I don't really know the Minister for Housing, to be honest with you. Three weeks ago, at the Chamber of Commerce in Stockholm, he made the world's issue of the end of the conversation. He then began today's speech by saying that it is positive that I am showing openness. As Mrs Thalén Ewa said, in the previous budget, there were several – among others she herself, but I have also looked at my own speech and speeches from Ola Johansson and Nina Lundström – who were very clear that there are issues to be gained by discussing a little. In Almedalen, I told both the current Minister of Housing and his Secretary of State on several occasions. As many in the debate have said, in principle everyone is calling for this. If a common denominator is to be found among all actors and stakeholders in the housing market, it is the importance of cross-block conversations. Then I wonder a little how to interpret the Minister for Housing in this debate. It is said, on the one hand, that showing will is a positive thing. But I don't feel the will, but instead you point your finger and talk about a lost year. Then, for history, I can say that Mats Odell, who was the Minister of Housing under a majority government, held talks with all opposition parties in 2007 in view of the introduction of the use-value rent. He held talks with all actors: Sabo, Tenant Association and Property Owners. I would therefore like to say that this has been done on certain occasions. My question to the Minister for Housing is: how do you interpret what has been said in today's debate, that it is positive that others are open to conversation, while you yourself are not?
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-399	Madam President, I would like Thank you, committee chairman Caroline Szyber! This is basically about how we choose to retell what has happened and what has not happened. First of all, if it is the parliamentary debates that are important and that is where what is said counts most, I am a little surprised that Caroline Szyber so clearly ducked all the time when Lars Eriksson quoted a quote from a Christian Democrat in a parliamentary debate not long ago. Caroline Szyber said it was an expression of euphoria over freedom. We really need to see what kind of statements form the basis of the work we are doing. What I said here a little while ago is what's going on. That is the latest statement, also based on what the representatives of the opposition parties had just said. That is the entrance we have and have always had. I am pleased that we remember the times that the opposition has actually been cooperative and transparent. I would also like to make a brief comment about the fact that it is over, because it is interesting. When we both stand and talk in a debate at the Chamber of Commerce and the issue comes up when we will stop talking and actually start delivering and working and I mention this in that context, then it is that I have said that we will never discuss or debate again. What is interesting in this, however, is what Lars Eriksson, but also other representatives of those who are behind the budget, mentioned that we have a housing policy objective that we would very much like to discuss issues around and that we hope we will be able to discuss issues around. I therefore welcome the entry of Caroline Szyber and her friends into the opposition.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-404	Madam President, I would like It went a bit through the hall, it was recorded, and it was clear that everyone was quite surprised by what the Minister of Housing said three weeks ago. But I'm glad he can reconsider and think again. We'll see the way forward. But the goal of housing policy is not the greatest that we need to discuss, crack and turn around in the area of housing. There are a lot of other questions. I believe that transparency and a will must be demonstrated. But there I am concerned that, on the basis of the investigations that have come, the noise regulation did not go all the way. The appeal presented last week had been blunted. I was told by the Minister of Justice about the election and the election that it was an investigation that is now being abandoned. There has also been talk of the importance of transparency for the rental market, but there is echoing silence. I feel that Sweden cannot afford just general discussions on objectives, but I think we need to sit down and be very concrete. Then I want to be clear about saying that we need to discuss what we should support and what we should focus on. I want more freedom when it comes to housing. We cannot spend as much time as possible on whether or not someone is allowed to set up a small extension on their own plot. Yes, there should be limits. But we have a lot that is over-regulated in the housing market. I know it is difficult for environmentalists to see it, but we have a lot in the housing market that is over-regulated. Let's see what we can lighten up, and let's look at what's left! There can't be anything left. Not everything can always be special interests and national interests. We need greater transparency in housing policy in general.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-411	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Caroline Szyber! As far as the very entrance to housing policy is concerned, we have some fundamentals with which we are moving. One is about the role of the state. Should the state be involved in supporting the municipalities in the development of rental apartments in particular or not? There are two lines in Parliament today. We have the line that Caroline Szyber represents, and we have the line that the government, together with the Left Party, represents. These are two fundamentally different ways of looking at housing policy. One is for those who are inside and have first-hand contracts or own their accommodation. But we also have another entry, which is about those who actually have no voice on this issue. I thought Nooshi Dadgostar made this very clear. I won't go into the details. But in general it is about that both the Christian Democrats and the Alliance Government during the last two terms of office worked frantically to simplify the rules. I agree with that. You have simplified the rules as much as you can and reached a certain level. Now we have taken up and continue to work so that it is primarily built the type of housing that has been built far too little of in recent years, namely rental apartments. It is also about climate-smart ones with reasonable rents. This is the type of housing that young people and students are asking for, and that is the type of housing that you unfortunately did not have a real answer to how they would be built then and that you do not have a real answer to today either. However, in order not to polemise further, I would like to say that I think this is a good start to something new.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-417	Madam President, I would like There is no doubt about what the debate is about, namely more housing. However, the last statement delivered here in response to Caroline Szyber could almost be seen as the Minister's view that the simplification work would have reached the end of the road. It worries me. To this extent, it has been argued in favour of the value of these subsidies that regulatory simplification risks ending up as a less priority area, which I find sad. It has also been mentioned to what extent we are open or not open to conversation. There have been many extended hands in this debate and also in the past. But no minister stands in today's situation as empty-handed as Kaplan does. It has now gone so far that your own authority Boverket, Mehmet Kaplan, has submitted a letter to the Ministry of Industry asking the government in principle to introduce a clause in the Planning and Construction Act, in which a state of emergency is issued in order to obtain housing – I believe it is dated 26 November – and that you should be able to provide for exceptions to large parts of the Planning and Construction Act. We have heard similar proposals from the Swedish Municipalities and County Councils. Among other things, it is about enabling municipalities to do what the Alliance has previously proposed, i.e. to change in already adopted detailed plans to obtain housing because it is needed. This has been needed, and it will be necessary, not least because we have people on the run who cannot wait for social housing to be completed. I ask mainly because I am curious, Minister Kaplan: When and how does the government intend to react and respond to those who urge you to now act as the situation demands and as Swedish municipalities also demand?
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-420	Madam President, I would like I thank Ola Johansson for the questions and interventions. I think that Ola Johansson's introduction to self-critical speech is dressy and humble. I think more politicians should try it from time to time. When Ola Johansson says that the proposal is sowed by everyone except by the government's related organisations, there will be an opportunity to ask about what I have wondered. Who are these organisations? Reveal them to us, Ola Johansson! Another thing that I would like Ola Johansson to reveal to us and to everyone who listens applies to all these impeccable appeals. What exactly is it that you want to restrict when it comes to the appeal and which you did not do during the last parliamentary term? Ola Johansson does not want us to investigate how to strengthen the tenants' position. He calls this a hassle. I would like Ola Johansson to explain whether it is a problem to investigate how the rules on the influence of tenants in conversion are applied and whether the influence of tenants should increase. According to a report from Boverket, which is an expert authority, which is sometimes appropriate to quote and sometimes not, at least 25 per cent of tenants move shortly before, during or after a renovation. I would like Ola Johansson to respond to this. The questions asked by Ola Johansson are that we have investment aid that we believe will create small and climate-smart rentals with reasonable rents. We have an incentive for student housing, and we have support for municipalities in order to increase housing construction. It is an active housing policy.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-425	Madam President, I would like As the Minister does not answer my question, I do not feel obliged to answer the Minister's question. As examples of organizations, I can mention the Building and Tenant Association. I myself am the chairman of a national organization that is a popular movement. I know what kind of people's movement I'm in. It is possible that the Green Party does not know the branch of popular movement that parts of the government represent. But it is possible to study on such things. No return to the days of the Million Program is current. I heard earlier in the debate that things were going well under the million-dollar programme and that things should go well now. I would like to say that this is not a desirable development. What I am asking the Minister for an answer to is: what are the solutions that allow us to quickly find housing for people, get people to work and get them integrated and established? These are people who exist in our country, people who hopefully have the opportunity to obtain a permanent residence permit and who will also be given an opportunity to enter the regular labour market. It does not take much longer than the time it takes for a child to be born to learn to read. It's not a very long time. But it also requires specific measures, which I have reminded the Minister that the Swedish Municipalities and County Councils have asked for. They have asked for exactly the things that the Minister and his comrades and also the Swedish Democrats voted against on a couple of occasions during the last parliamentary term and also on a couple of occasions during this parliamentary term. And in the extreme case, what Boverket is proposing is an exception for a short period of time from large parts of what is prescribed as detailed plans, national interests and other things in the Planning and Construction Act. I would like the Minister's comment on this. What can the Minister do in the short term?
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-431	Madam President, I would like I thank Ola Johansson for this. Since the eminent publication that I have in my hand, I have been amused to sit and look at the government's and opposition's proposals. I think the Center Party stands for the empty column of all the columns that are here. It is possible that I confuse it with the Swedish Democrats. But that's another way to count. One issue that I would like to highlight, and which I know the Center Party finds a bit difficult, is investment in the school area in terms of outdoor facilities and the renovation of school buildings. This is something where there are differences between a few different parties in the opposition. I would be very grateful for a discussion about the way in which the Center Party intends to support the construction of small rental apartments with reasonable rents. I've never heard such a suggestion. You are still talking about a more flexible use of the planning instrument. It is possible that a detailed plan should not be required as often as it is today. But there we are in doubt because there is nothing clearer than that. We're not there when it comes to regulatory simplification. In that case, I would say that it is now done. I just think that what you did during the previous parliamentary term in terms of regulatory simplification in many ways was important and good. However, we know that the planning process that has recently been reformed already has a number of steps and is relatively short and as flexible as it could be. On the other hand, the duration of the planning process can be limited, in particular through better application and greater clarity. We're still working on that.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-435	Madam President, I would like I find it extremely exciting to listen to the Minister for Housing here today. One can imagine that the housing policy of the Minister for Housing is for everyone, and he talks a lot about insiders and outsiders. But my opinion is quite strong that the housing minister's policy is about building walls. No one's going into the housing market. It is about defending those who are already there. How will the 350 000 young adults who want to enter the housing market enter? No idea. The Green Party probably has Sweden's most flip-floping policy when it comes to housing issues. I would even say that the Swedish Democrats have a stronger line than the Green Party. In the past, you were against subsidies and regulatory simplifications. Now you are in favour of subsidies and regulatory simplifications when it suits you. On the other hand, one issue in which you maintain your line is that of national interests. Here we have a spokesperson for the Environmental Party who wants to make the whole of Vättern a national interest. 55 per cent of Sweden's surface area is a national interest today, and no more is needed. It is even the case that the Social Democratic municipal councillor in Linköping, Lena Micko, who leads SKL, believes that there has been an overconsumption of national interests in Sweden that means that there will be no housing. When it comes to regulatory simplifications for national interests, it is now clear that the National Interest Investigation will land on the fact that more national interests will be introduced, that there will be several different types of models, stronger supervision and more difficult to obtain housing due to national interests. My questions are: Does the Government believe that the Green Party's spokesperson for housing policy is right in that Vättern should become a national interest? And will the Green Party contribute to more national interests in Sweden? Will the Green Party throw the investigation into the garbage can, where it belongs, or will the Green Party work for a new investigation? Lena Micko and many other Social Democratic councillors in Sweden tell me when I meet them that this is unreasonable. What is the housing minister's answer?
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-440	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Robert Hannah! We're working on the issue of that particular investigation at the Government Office. Mambo, Robert Hannah, was an expression that existed already in the 1990s. That's when you laughed at it. It has not been done for the last 15 to 20 years. You bring up the concept of mambo and think it's clever. It has been around for quite a long time and is a rather painful experience for those in that stage. It does not help to have a trench war on whether or not we should have investment aid when it comes to the development of rental apartments that have reasonable rents. I would like to raise another issue that you, Robert Hannah, raised in your opening statement. You reasoned on this by taking responsibility and not with regard to property owners. But when it comes to municipalities, you seem to reason differently. Municipalities that have taken responsibility or have not taken responsibility, to paraphrase what you said about the property owners, suddenly have a completely different dimension when in your special opinion you propose to create an appropriation of SEK 75 million to be used as an economic stimulus to those municipalities that have short processing times or successfully shorten their processing times for PBL cases. Suddenly you can obviously make a distinction between municipalities and municipalities or actors and actors, and I welcome that. I'm not against this. I think it's good that there are incentives, and our investment aid is an incentive in its purest form, Robert Hannah.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-445	Madam President, I would like It is clear that the Government chooses not to answer the opposition's questions but to talk about what are the draft budgets from the Liberals. I find it remarkable. I still want answers to the question: Will the Green Party contribute to a policy that leads to more national interests in Sweden, that a larger proportion of Sweden's surface area will be considered as national interest? Will you support Emma Hult's motion that the whole of Vättern should become a national interest? Is it really reasonable, when we have such a housing shortage in Sweden, that we should have so many national interests that are not unique? The Liberals' answer is that the areas in Sweden that are unique should be national interests. I love Sweden, but I don't think 55 per cent of Sweden's surface area is a national interest or has that value. As regards the question of what the responsibilities of the municipalities should be and of incentives, I am liberal and do not believe that politicians should poke in the social partners. I do not believe that there should be subsidies. However, we want the municipalities to develop land as quickly as possible. What is the responsibility of politicians is to contribute with infrastructure and conditions. We cannot have a policy that requires municipalities to sit for several years with planning and construction matters. I don't want the government to do more than is necessary. I want developers themselves to be able to develop detailed plans that will quickly go through the municipality and the courts so that we can get housing. That is what provides housing, not some kind of subsidy that can at best lead to 15 000 more homes, as you yourself have indicated. I do not think it will even lead to 15 000 more homes. In fact, we have a need for 500 000 homes in Sweden. What is needed in Swedish housing policy are prerequisites and infrastructure. We need to threaten the responsibility of the municipalities and the work of the municipalities in obtaining land. We need to ensure that the land is cleaned up so that the residential builders can build. It is the kind of policy that does not sit and poke in the market but gives the developers the conditions that can succeed.
i-HwbrehLmTWvVthcMC6vcYa	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Robert Hannah, for the clarifications! I can only repeat what I said earlier, that we are working on the national interest issue at the Government Office. When it comes to how Robert Hannah and the Liberals want to create conditions for municipalities and other actors, it sounds very similar to what we do when it comes to support for municipalities. You are talking about a speed premium in the form of an economic stimulus to those municipalities that have short processing times or successfully shorten their processing times for planning and building permits cases. It sounds very similar to the municipal support that both you and the other three opposition parties have agreed with the government. I don't understand how it can suddenly get so much bigger just because you happen to pronounce it. It is a support and an incentive. You also say that you as Liberals would never do such a thing or that it is not your entrance to the questions. But that's what you're doing. After all, the report, Robert Hannah, states that you want to stimulate housing construction and invest money in it. To then stand here and say that it is not the liberal way of doing things, I find it a little strange. Nevertheless, I welcome the fact that, together, we are now fighting a battle to help the municipalities that are kneeling down to live up to their housing responsibilities. Then we think differently in terms of investment aid and in terms of support so that more student housing can be built. We think differently in terms of the rehabilitation of the existing stock, so that energy efficiency can also be improved when the stock is being renovated. We feel differently about this, but I think we have a good basis for future cooperation.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-452	Madam President, I would like The debate has so far largely focused on housing policy. My speech will only be about consumer policy. In the face of this debate, I surfed the internet and did some different searches. If you search only the word consumer you get 15 1⁄2 million hits. If you search for the Consumer Sales Law you get 400 000 hits. If you search for complaints you get 460,000 hits and about the same number on the word quick loan. If you apply for budget and debt counselling, you get 58,000 hits. It may not say anything more than that if you are looking for information on the Internet today, it is a matter of specifying your search. Nevertheless, it gives a certain signal that it is quite complicated to be a consumer today. I think we all agree here that a good consumer policy is when we consumers can make active and conscious choices. For me as moderate, the basis for my commitment to politics is that I want to create opportunities and conditions for people to live their lives in the way they choose and they think best for themselves. The task of politics is to jointly solve problems and create the conditions for people to make their own choices. Applying to consumer policy means for me and the Moderates that consumers should have empowerment and their own opportunities to make active choices. The Alliance government changed the consumer policy objective in 2007. Today we are presenting a new consumer policy objective, and it is clear to me that there is an ideological difference between these different objectives. The target now proposed focuses on a consumer market in a certain way. The focus is not on the individual, but on policy solving the market. I don't believe it. I think we need to focus on the consumer, and the consumer needs tools to be able to make his own decisions. The market is constantly changing. Politics cannot keep up, nor should it control the market. The argument put forward by the government parties to change the consumer policy objective is that it is considered too narrow. I am of exactly the opposite opinion. I believe that the new objective is too narrow and that it forgets to focus on what really matters, namely consumer power. A famous Social Democrat once said that the one who is in debt is not free. That's it. Households' indebtedness has been discussed relatively much over the past year in various quarters. The Swedish National Audit Office came in early summer with a report on over-indebtedness. The report points to a number of points where more needs to be done. The number of over-indebted people depends on how you count, but there are estimates that over-indebtedness costs society 30 to 50 billion SEK a year. The Moderates believe that measures are needed to curb the trend towards more and more over-indebted people each year. In the budget, the government presents a strategy against over-indebtedness. I and the Moderates welcome the strategy, but I miss more concrete proposals. To curb over-indebtedness, we need to make efforts much earlier than when people are seeking deleveraging. I believe that education in private economics in schools needs to be strengthened. The government may think so too, but the strategy says that the government will follow the question. What does that mean? Elsewhere in the strategy, the Government is considering legislative changes. What does that mean in concrete terms? Of course, there are good proposals in the strategy, including an investment in the Swedish Kronofogdemyndigheten so that more people can apply for debt restructuring. However, I would have liked to have seen more robust proposals. In their budget, the Moderates invest heavily in the Swedish Consumer Agency to counteract over-indebtedness, increase consumer information and increase support for budget and debt counselling. Budget and debt counselling is statutory. Yet we see that it differs significantly across the country. We need to change that. I understand that municipalities have different ability to cope with consumer guidance and budget and debt counselling, but more needs to be done here. Coordination can be improved, and as stated in the Swedish National Audit Office's report, a clear regulatory framework is needed for how budget and debt counselling should work. Madam President, I would like I'll say a few words about Hello consumer. Hello consumer was introduced by the Alliance Government and should be seen as a complement to the consumer guidance provided by the municipalities and to the consumer agencies. Hello consumer is a telephone service that has been running since last spring. It is run by the Swedish Consumer Agency – so far with very good results. The aim is for consumers to be able to find answers to questions about rights and obligations before and after purchase. Municipal consumer guidance is important. Unfortunately, over half a million people are missing municipal consumer advisors, and that is not good. I find it sad that Hallå konsument has received some criticism. It is claimed that municipalities use Halla konsument as a reason to remove their own consumer guidance. But that shouldn't be a reason, I think. Last week I and the Moderates visited Konsument Gästrikland. I'm not going to go under the impression that the consumer guides had some criticism of Hallå konsument. But they also gave examples that Hallå konsument has become as we intended. Hello consumer should answer simple questions of the type: How do I advertise a product? Can I regret a purchase I made on the phone? This was also what the consumer guides said. In this way, municipal consumer guides can focus on the more complex issues, which is the intention. Let me conclude by repeating that, for me, consumer policy is about giving consumers power and the opportunity to make active choices. Let that be our consumer policy objective. Madam President, I would like I call for the government's proposal for a new consumer policy objective to be rejected and for reservation 1.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-479	Madam President, I would like I, too, will talk about consumer policy. We Swedish democrats have, in our recent budget motion, lined up a wide range of measures that we believe need to be taken in today's consumer policy. It is more extensive than ever before, but I will not take up everything because I have been asked to stay quite brief. We want to see harder grips with fake invoices. It is totally unreasonable to treat companies that put in a system to send fake invoices like any company. We are talking about criminal elements that should not be treated as companies at all. It is baroque that a company that happens to send an invoice error commits a crime as big as a company that consistently sends out fake invoices and hopes that someone will pay. In the case of fake invoices, the rules on small claims are also used, which means that companies involved in this will escape legal costs which they would otherwise have to pay themselves. It's unreasonable for a blubber company to get away with it. Here we want to change so that whoever has put this in the system will have to pay the costs. Text loans and small loans have been on the wallpaper for a long time. We wish the government had been a little faster in demanding certain things instead of referring to an investigation that will eventually come. I believe that there is a majority in this House to demand better credit control, if that is what the Social Democrats want. In the debates ahead of the elections, the Social Democrats were clear that they wanted to see strong action. After the election, these forces only became a forthcoming investigation, but hopefully it can soon lead to a strong move. Madam President, I would like The problem of marketing loans on invoices I have previously raised in an interpellation. Here, I believe, we must act decisively and quickly. There is no reason why we should accept that invoices are sent out where it is unclear what to pay and what to enter into a contract. It should be obvious that an invoice must not contain this form of offer but be clean and contain only what to pay. The company can send an offer next door; that's another thing. However, the invoice itself must be clean. The investigation into telephone vendors is complete, but it has not led to any action yet. It is positive that the investigation proposes, among other things, written agreements in connection with telephone sales. We can consider supporting this when it eventually comes as proposals from the government. Telephone sales also have links to bluf companies. Often the company calls back and then claims that you have received a confirmation that you have never received. Over-indebtedness is also called insolvency, but that word probably doesn't use anyone in everyday speech. I don't suppose anyone's saying you're insolvent. What it means is that you no longer have the ability to pay. Rather, it is said that you are short of money at the moment or over-indebted. The focus on over-indebtedness is on deleveraging and it needs to be simplified. It is almost impossible for a private person who has many small debts to keep track of all creditors themselves, especially in view of the current trade in debt. When the debt has changed hands a few times, it is not easy to know: Who really owes money? One thing that we have included in this area that is really on the verge of being involved in consumer policy is voluntary will registers. There is one thing that we as a party are pushing. I have seen that more and more people are starting to exercise about it during general exercise. That is something that will be implemented in time. There is a problem today with the disappearance of wills. The will that disappears can cause great harm to the person who has believed that one's estate will go to a certain person or be divided in a certain way, and so the will will never be published or will never arrive, perhaps because the one who first finds it is not favored by it. Madam President, I would like When we reached the consumer policy goal, we were forced to choose between two different goals, one from the Alliance and one from the government. We do not really see any shortcomings in any of the objectives. But we also do not see that any of the objectives are so good that we want to support it. Everything depends on what you read into the goals. You can read as much as you want. If you read with the Alliance's eyes the Alliance's own goal, it means that you should ignore environmental thinking and socially and economically sustainable consumption. I don't even think the Alliance wants to claim that their goal is based on that. At the same time, one could say that the government might have put something more into its target in terms of consumer power. But I can understand if you think it is part of a well-functioning consumer market and that you also have a consumer power in it. I would like to conclude with this.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-493	Madam President, I would like I too want to talk about consumer policy. We believe that Sweden needs a new consumer policy objective. That is why we support the proposal for a new objective. It reads: the objective of consumer policy is well-functioning consumer markets and environmentally, socially and economically sustainable consumption. We believe that the current target is too narrow and that the proposed target is more consistent with the current situation of consumers. It is also necessary for a consumer policy objective to include environmental and sustainability aspects. Many of the major environmental problems that currently exist are linked to our consumption and production patterns. If we are to reduce the negative environmental impact, it is necessary to change our consumption and production in the future. We see how it is becoming increasingly difficult and complicated to be a consumer today. Despite the high level of consumer protection, consumers are constantly at a disadvantage. This applies both to the choice of products and to disputes. Today, consumers are exposed to high consumer pressure through various forms of marketing. Resourcing consumers have better conditions. But far from everyone in our society has strong resources as a consumer. More technologically advanced products, more complex financial services and a global market offer many opportunities for consumers, but also pose greater challenges for consumers. Against this background, I think it is wise for the government to propose an increase in the allocation to the national consumer service Hello consumer. Unfortunately, there are indications that several municipalities have taken the creation of Hallå konsument as a pretext for closing down municipal consumer guidance, which of course was not the idea. The national guidance can never replace the support provided by municipal activities through its direct support to consumers. Local guides have knowledge of the local situation and provide specialised support in a number of areas. I therefore consider it absolutely necessary to look at local support in terms of consumer guidance so that consumers are guaranteed equal support throughout the country. We also see that it is necessary to increase the funding for the General Complaints Board, Arn. The Board will have to deal with a number of new issues due to new EU directives. This applies, for example, to issues related to heat pumps, electricity consumption, games, parking, antiques and more. This means that Arn needs to expand its staff and invest in skills development in order to meet the new situation. Without an increase in funding, the queues for redress would be unacceptably long, which would put consumers at a disadvantage. It is clear that the Center Party does not, unfortunately, give priority to a high level of consumer protection, because in its draft budget it is making major cuts in the area of consumer protection. I would therefore like to ask the representative of the Centre Party on the Civil Committee how the Centre Party intends that Arn and the Swedish Consumer Agency will be able to respond to the increased need for consumer information and the increasing flow of cases without any additional resources. The Government also presents a new strategy to counter over-indebtedness. I welcome this approach. The number of debtors is still at a very high level, and more than 400 000 are in the Swedish Enforcement Authority's register with a total debt of 70 billion. The main reason people end up in the debt trap is personal tragedies such as unemployment, sickness, divorce or bankruptcy, and many live with debt for a very long time. Indebtedness can lead to an increase in both mental and physical illness. The preventive efforts to avoid indebtedness are, of course, crucial. The government points to some areas such as private economic education at school but also financial education aimed at young adults, newly arrived and older people. I think the proposals are good and are moving in the right direction. However, I am convinced that much more can be done in the field of prevention to prevent people from falling into the debt trap. The government wants to strengthen consumer protection and reduce the risk of consumer credit leading to over-indebtedness, focusing primarily on short-term loans. That's good, too. These loans have led to many, especially young people, falling into a debt trap. I think it is a good thing that the government is examining the possibility of introducing a ceiling for the sky-high interest rates available for short-term loans, which I see as absolutely necessary as long as the short-term loans remain. The view of the Left Party is that quick loans could very well be abolished. When people fall into the debt trap, it must be possible to get support and help to get out of their plight. It is therefore a good idea to review the debt restructuring system so that it will be easier to apply for debt restructuring in the future. It must also be possible for the so - called eternal debtors to have their debts written off. In the investigation Over-indebtedness in the credit community? it is proposed to introduce a final limitation period for debts corresponding to the system in place in Finland. For those over-indebted without the hope of ever getting out of the debt spiral, which means that each extra-earned crown should be measured out, a final limitation period would have a major impact on the possibility of rehabilitation and restarting. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to stress the importance of paying particular attention to children and young people in over-indebted families. Today, 161 000 children live in over-indebted families. Children in highly indebted families may be severely affected and may live under difficult economic conditions throughout their childhood. Therefore, society must ensure that children are protected, particularly in the context of eviction and foreclosure. No children should have to be homeless in Sweden in 2016. The Left Party thinks it is good that the government takes particular account of children and young people in its strategy. However, we believe that there must be a complete review in the form of a children's impact assessment on children living in over-indebted families. With this in mind, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report on consumer issues and rejection of all motions in this area.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-509	Madam President, I would like I only requested a reply on the grounds that Lotta Johnsson Fornarve put a direct question to the Center Party. The question was: What is it that the Center Party wants to reduce when it does not increase the grant to neither the Swedish Consumer Agency or the Swedish Public Complaints Board? Note: the Centre Party does not reduce any appropriations in its draft budget. We choose to refrain from increasing the appropriations in our draft budget. We are doing so for the simple reason that we give priority to tax cuts that have the best effect on small businesses. Reducing taxes on hiring young people gives them an opportunity to try and enter the labour market. We are simply making a priority, which does not mean that the General Complaints Board or the Swedish Consumer Agency will have less opportunity to carry out the task that they actually have. While I stand here and have the opportunity to talk about consumer policy, I would like to stress that it is important for the Center Party to work on consumer protection issues, especially with regard to what Lotta Johnsson mentioned, such as the short-term loan market. It needs to be controlled and managed in a much better way, and preferably with the possibility for those who are about to take such a loan to have a reflection period and return with further information before the loan is signed. On the other hand, this is seen as a form of micro-loans of value and importance in the lending market, but under controlled conditions. I would like to stress the importance of the possibility of debt restructuring for entrepreneurs, which has been mentioned here earlier in the debate. Eternity debtors are a particular problem, and I dare say that entrepreneurs are an over-represented group among them.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-513	Madam President, I would like Thank you for trying to answer my question, Ola! I note that the Alliance disagrees on this issue. The Moderates, for example, think that the issue is so important that they even want to increase the funding for both the General Complaints Board and the Swedish Consumer Agency while the Center wants to cut back. If these areas are cut back, it will ultimately affect consumers. As I described in my speech, the General Complaints Board has received a number of new assignments on its table because the European directives have been amended. So we will be dealing with a number of new issues that we are not dealing with today. Already today, as you say yourself, there is a very long queue of errands. It would be an unacceptable queue if additional resources were not available, which you will need to hire new staff, develop consumers and so on. We have seen how Hallå konsument gets incredibly many questions, and the interest in the service is great. There too, a major contribution is needed to help particularly vulnerable consumers.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-516	Madam President, I would like It is a question of definition whether you consider an unchanged grant as a cut, Lotta Johnsson Fornarve. This is not a reduction, it is an unchanged allocation. I repeat the message: the reason why we do not list the grant to the Swedish Consumer Agency and the Swedish Public Complaints Board is that we give priority to other measures. To give an example, we want to create opportunities for one-man companies to hire one person and avoid paying the employer's contribution for this person during the first two years. It is one way of promoting small businesses and creating better conditions for companies to survive during the tough period of starting up a business and acquiring the first employee during an expansion phase. It is also an occasion when many small businesses, who may be heavily burdened by private economic reasons such as illness and occasional suppliers who fail to meet their commitments, end up in difficult economic situations. Our way of meeting this is to create better conditions for these companies to take on orders, perform jobs and produce goods and services with increased staffing and greater opportunities to expand. That's how we get society moving, and that's how we get progress moving. This is also how we create good conditions to afford welfare services in the future. One of them is to work to improve consumer protection in different ways.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-519	Madam President, I would like The Left Party is keen to protect small businessmen too. I do not see that there is any contradiction to protecting consumers. If you do not agree to the increased support for Arn and the Swedish Consumer Agency, it still means in practice a cut, Ola. After all, the works have been given new tasks that will require additional resources if they are to manage them well and be able to support consumers in a good way.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-520	Madam President, I would like I am also pleased to discuss consumer policy, which affects all of us in one way or another. It is important that all consumers are given good opportunities to make the right decisions. This requires strengthening the empowerment of consumers, increasing information to consumers and increasing the knowledge of the individual consumer. With constantly new goods and services to buy, it is a complex market we live with. The markets are too many difficult to understand. That is why we need to increase consumer support. The government and we parties believe that the consumer policy objective needs to respond better to the ambitions of the government. We therefore believe that we need to broaden the objective of consumer policy. Our proposal is therefore that the objective of consumer policy is well-functioning consumer markets and environmentally, socially and economically sustainable consumption. Through a sustainable consumption strategy, we want to make it easier for people to be active consumers, act consciously and contribute to a more sustainable world. We want to strengthen consumers' opportunities to act sustainably – not steer. Our consumption affects society and the environment, here in Sweden and globally. The climate issue is one of today's major challenges. We need to do more to make our consumption more responsible for more sustainable consumption. A clear majority of Swedish consumers think that environmental and economic and social sustainability issues are important. Swedish Commerce has carried out a study showing that seven out of ten believe that they want to act more in this way and that they think these are important issues. We therefore believe that it should be easier to act more sustainably from a social, economic and climate perspective. Many today feel that it is difficult. Sometimes there are not enough such goods. We need to strengthen the power of consumers, and we also need to strengthen the way in which producers can produce what consumers are asking for. Let me say something about the economic sustainability that also deals with the area of over-indebtedness. If a consumer takes out a loan without being able to repay, the consequences can be serious. This can lead to difficult problems. It affects individuals, and it also affects children of over-indebted people. Lotta Johnsson Fornarve mentioned that there are 161 000 children in families with debts at Kronofogden. From the child's perspective, it is important to be able to help and support people in difficult economic situations. Over-indebtedness has major consequences for the individual, as I said, but also for society at large. Research shows that it affects health, and long-term over-indebtedness can lead to chronic ill health. The longer a person is in debt, the greater the consequences for the individual, and the way back becomes more difficult. The debt restructuring act was introduced in 1994. Deleveraging means that over-indebted persons can be fully or partially relieved of their debts. One of the basic requirements is that the debtor is not deemed to be able to pay his debts for the foreseeable future. More and more people are applying for debt restructuring. The number of people has increased by 163 per cent in the last eight years. We need to help those people. However, while more and more people are applying for debt restructuring, many do not. In the figures produced by the Swedish National Audit Office, it is estimated that approximately 28,000 could have debt restructuring granted if they applied for it. There may be several reasons why you don't apply, such as feelings of guilt and shame – but also that you sometimes don't know the possibility enough to dare take the step. It is a step that would be good and important for the individual but also for society. There are several different calculations of what the cost to society is, ranging from the Swedish National Audit Office's estimate that lands around 8 billion to the Swedish kronor who says it is about 30 – 50 billion. Whatever the cost, it is not only for society but above all for the individual. We are therefore happy, and I think it is incredibly good that the government has developed a strategy against over-indebtedness. It's about a lot of different things. I will not list them again – as Lotta did in her speech – but I would like to mention that, in addition to the efforts contained in the strategy, the government also opens up the possibility for companies to have debt restructuring. Madam President, I would like A functioning consumer market means that people are given the opportunity to make their own choices. For that, we need information and knowledge. We need to combat unhealthy business practices and strengthen consumers with legal rights and relevant consumer support. We do this through the municipal consumer guidance, which is an important contribution and an important resource and which has also been complemented by Hallå konsument at the national level. I believe that the two can complement each other in a positive way in order to give people stronger support in the, as I said earlier, complex consumer market we live with. All in all, we believe that the efforts in the field of consumer policy offer opportunities to continue work on developing effective consumer information, strengthening consumer protection and promoting sustainable consumption and opportunities for it. I therefore support the proposal in the report.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-533	Madam President, I would like It has been a long debate, and I must say that I welcome the commitment that has begun to come in relation to consumer policy. It is a commitment I have lacked in Swedish politics for quite a long time. I would particularly like to welcome the involvement of the bourgeois parties in consumer policy. During our time in opposition, in other words during the eight years of the previous government, I can say that we somewhat missed that commitment from the government. I therefore welcome the fact that there is a commitment now. I also understand that there is commitment, because this is a very exciting time when it comes to consumer policy. It is a time when consumer markets are changing rapidly and consumer behaviour is changing. We see consumers becoming increasingly active; they make active choices, and when they are worried about the future, they actually choose to act as consumers. We see sales of organic and eco-labelled products increasing at an enormous rate, and we see how people choose to try to reduce their environmental impact in different ways and act for a sustainable world in the future. At the same time, new technologies emerge. New flexible methods of payment make it possible to buy goods and services worldwide, and consumers are increasingly given choice on the markets. We see new marketing methods that affect how we as consumers meet different products and services. It is clear that this affects how we consumers act, but it also affects what support we need and how the authorities should work on consumer policy. At the same time, behaviour patterns are changing – parts of one's economy are now growing at a very rapid rate, creating new conditions in the consumer markets where we are no longer just consumers, but actually also producers of services, for example. At the same time, as consumer markets become increasingly complex, it risks becoming difficult for us consumers to obtain the information and knowledge we need in order to be active and genuinely involved. We see some problems when it comes to intrusive sales practices where consumers are sometimes unfortunately even tricked into entering into contracts they have not been fully informed and knowledgeable about. Telephone sales have been in the debate, and we see that there are particular problems there. Many consumers feel that they do not get a chance to be an active consumer. We know that telecommunications, banking and financial markets are among them the most complaints about come to the Swedish Consumer Agency, where we need to make more efforts. At the same time, it is important to point out that the vast majority of companies in the consumer markets are doing well and that there are a few operators who are not doing well. There is a risk that it will affect the reputation of the entire industry concerned. We, from the government, have chosen to raise consumer policy. We believe that consumer policy has played an overly evasive role in the eight years of the previous bourgeois government. We are therefore raising the level of ambition, and we are doing so with a new consumer policy objective. We shall have the objective of ensuring that consumer policy is well-functioning, that we have well-functioning consumer markets and that we have environmentally, socially and economically sustainable consumption. As we see it, this is a broader approach. On the other hand, I would like to dissociate some of the perhaps more conspiratory ideas that have existed in the debate that we would not like to give power and the opportunity to consumers to make active choices. It's very far from the truth. On the contrary, we see that functioning consumer markets, with emphasis on consumer markets, obviously mean that you have the power and the ability to act as a consumer. A market where consumers do not have the power and the ability to act is not a functioning consumer market. At the same time, I am a little concerned about the entry of the bourgeois parties in relation to this objective. We are now seeing how commitment to sustainability issues is growing all over the world. I came yesterday evening from the climate summit in Paris, where the analysis is precisely where we need to do much more in all areas in order to achieve a sustainable future. The consumer perspective was also highlighted very clearly at the Paris meeting. It believes that all countries need to do more to achieve sustainable consumption. From all the countries of the world, we have just endorsed the new global sustainability goals we adopted in New York. One of those objectives, namely objective 12, is precisely sustainable consumer and producer markets – sustainable production and consumption. After all, it is expected that the targets will be implemented in all countries' legislation, and when we, as the government, now implement this objective in the legislation, the opposition chooses to contradict and say no. I'm having a hard time understanding that. I also think it shows a lack of sensitivity. When you ask Sweden's consumers if they want to be able to make a difference when it comes to sustainability – if they want to be more sustainable consumers – seven out of ten answer: Yes, we want to, but we find it difficult. We need more knowledge, more information and more support and assistance in the consumer market. I would therefore say that it is because of sensitivity that the government chooses to raise these perspectives, because it is important for many consumers. I think that perhaps it would be more suggestive to want to ignore those perspectives in terms of how we guide our authorities' work and how we choose to shape the consumer market. Nor do we choose to do this only with words in the form of objectives, but we also choose to follow it up with concrete action in the form of resource reinforcements. In fact, something unique is happening in the budget. We are making greater efforts than has been done in many decades in the area of consumer protection – SEK 17 million in 2016 which then increases to SEK 18 million in the coming years. These are measures aimed precisely at improving the functioning of the consumer market. We are a country that has a tradition of high consumer protection and a strong consumer law. If we as consumers are dissatisfied with a product or service we have purchased and do not feel that we get the right in relation to the company, we have an opportunity to turn to the General Complaints Board to have the matter examined. In addition, we have now improved the possibility of going in with complaints by doing so electronically via the website. We also have new EU rules that open the way for new markets to be examined by the General Complaints Board. However, this means that we need to strengthen the Board's resources in order for it to be able to implement what we are demanding of it. Therefore, we are now increasing the resources by over SEK 10 million, which is a much needed but quite substantial resource enhancement to the General Complaints Board. This means that we believe that it will be able to have faster and more efficient procedures, so that consumers can have their case heard more quickly. Consumer information is, of course, also something that is absolutely necessary in a sometimes rather complicated consumer market. Therefore, I am very pleased that Hallå konsument could be presented during the month of March this year. The interest has been very great, as we have heard earlier during the debate. Here we also need to see that the claims that have been available for consumer information have simply not been sufficient. Therefore, we are now strengthening the funding for consumer information from the government by SEK 3 million per year to the Swedish Consumer Agency. We know that authorities assisting consumers are a very important issue, but that other efforts are also needed. We know that civil society – many organisations – is doing a very good job. We were concerned that the previous government chose to cut back on it in its planning. Instead, we have chosen now to strengthen support for consumer organisations because they play an important role in guiding and helping us with impartial information. SEK 1 million more for consumer organisations is an important measure by the government. Mr President, I would like to We have also heard a lot about the credit society and the debt problem here today. It is also an area where the government has put a lot of effort and energy into coming up with important solutions. We see a rapid increase in various types of loans for consumption, and we also see that the marketing of these loans has become increasingly intrusive. Unfortunately, it is also a market characterised by the presence of players with very high interest rates and charges, and this allows a small loan to grow into large proportions in quite a short time. This puts many people in difficult situations. As we have heard here, we can all suffer unforeseen events such as sickness, unemployment and the like. It could put any one of us in financial trouble. That is why we must also have systems to help people who end up in debt. One of the first measures that I took as Minister of Consumer Affairs was to start tackling these problems and to develop a strategy to help people who end up in over-indebtedness and to ensure that fewer people end up in such problems. The strategy we have now presented contains a package of measures. These are measures for more people to be able to apply for and undergo debt restructuring. It is also a question of making a substantial increase in the appropriations allocated by the Swedish Enforcement Authority. We spend far more money than has been available in the past to deal with debt restructuring more quickly and also to carry out outreach activities so that all those who today do not know that they are entitled to debt restructuring will be given that information and the opportunity to get help. It is also a matter of ensuring that the work of local government budget and debt counselling functions better than it is today. We know that it is quite different quality in different municipalities. Here we need better guidance, better information and better support for the municipalities in order for them to be able to carry out good work. We know that this is where early intervention is needed. We have also given the Consumer Ombudsman the opportunity to go in early and stop misleading marketing. One should not have to go to court and wait for several years to stop a campaign that is misleading, but it must go significantly faster. We are now in the process of taking action here. We also have a study which is now looking at concrete measures in terms of interest ceilings, cost ceilings and actually limiting the amount of interest you get, because it creates major problems and risks for us consumers. We also need to work long-term to increase our knowledge of private finances and the risks involved. There are now major and rapid measures here. These are measures that we have been waiting for for eight years of inactivity. There have been no proposals despite the fact that the credit market has changed a lot during that time. So much more is needed here. Since we focus on sustainability in the target for consumer policy, we are now also following it up with efforts to give the Swedish Consumer Agency greater funding. It is an area which, unfortunately, was also prioritised under the alliance government. This is information and help that consumers want and need, and so we now prioritise this area with SEK 3 million in 2016, which then increases to SEK 4 million per year. It is money that will be very useful. This is also part of the sustainable consumption strategy that the government is working on and that we are planning to present in the next budget. There we also need to look at a wide range of measures that will help us consumers. There is a strong consumer will to act sustainably, but we often feel extradited. More measures will be needed, and the government will make such proposals. It is not about controlling or pointing with the whole hand, it is about helping us consumers to be as active as we want to be. Mr President, I would like to I would like to point out that this is an area in which the alliance parties are clearly bursting. There is no common consumer policy line among the opposition. The Centre Party is slaughtering consumer policy. Not only does it choose to remove the 17 – 18 million that we are now introducing, but it chooses to remove even more, that is to say, it wants to reduce the opportunities for consumer policy and support for consumers. However, there are also parties which, after eight years of inactivity, now choose to spend resources on consumer policy, which I welcome. I hope that this is a sign that we will jointly find a way forward to strengthen consumer policy, because it is an area that is becoming increasingly important. For example, if we are to achieve what we want, a sustainable world in the future, we must focus on consumer markets and ensure that we, as consumers, can make our contribution to a sustainable world in the future.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-563	Mr President, I would like to I would first like to thank the Minister for an interesting introduction, and then I have some supplementary questions which I also raised in my speech. I wonder whether the Minister considers it necessary to review local support in the area of consumer guidance so that consumers are guaranteed equal support throughout the country. There are indications that several municipalities have taken the establishment of Hallå konsument as a pretext for closing the municipal consumer guidance, which of course was not the intention. My second question concerns the limitation period for the so-called eternity debtors. It is proposed in the investigation Over-indebtedness in the credit community? to introduce a limitation period for debts corresponding to the system in place in Finland. What is the Minister's view on this? Finally, I would also like to ask a question about children in over-indebted families. Do you intend to carry out a comprehensive child impact assessment to see how children are affected by over-indebted families?
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-567	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Lotta Johnsson Fornarve, for your commitment to these issues! I am pleased to see that, and this is an area in which we really need to do more work and commitment. Municipal consumer guidance is an important part of consumer policy to help us consumers. It is a misconception that Hello consumer would be some kind of substitute, but it is more like a funnel where you as a consumer can come up with all your questions and then be guided out to the various bodies that exist. There, municipal consumer advice and also budet and debt counselling are important. We have been clear in our communication with, for example, Swedish Municipalities and County Councils and individual municipalities that this is not an area where reductions can be made, but on the contrary, the importance of municipal consumer guidance is greater than ever. At Hallå konsument you can get quick answers to quick questions, but if you have more complex questions or questions that may relate to local phenomena in the consumer market, municipal consumer guidance is a major function. This is therefore an area in which we are making a real effort to create understanding and clearly demonstrate the importance of greater efforts being made in the future. The question of limitation periods has been considered superficially in the investigation that exists, but there are no detailed proposals. We have chosen to concentrate on the tools available today and, as we know, works for many consumers in the form of debt restructuring. There we have put gunpowder into making it available to many more, but we have also said that this is an issue that we have with us in the future. If it turns out that the measures we have now taken are not enough, we are prepared to look further at other measures, such as having a limitation period. But first let us do what can be done in the near future.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-572	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister very much for the answers. I am pleased that we share the view on the importance of municipal consumer guidance. Unfortunately, several municipalities have recently discontinued their consumer guidance. There are 20 to 30 municipalities that have no consumer guidance at all. I think this shows that we need to review how the municipal consumer guidance system works and look to ensure that we have an equivalence across the country and, by extension, take action if necessary. The limitation period is extremely important for these people who are stuck in the debt trap year after year and may have children who live in debt throughout their childhood. In order for them to get out of this spiral, feel confident in the future and start with rehabilitation, I think it is absolutely necessary to introduce a limitation period. Finland has two different, 15 or 20 years, which I think can be reasonable. When it comes to children and young people in over-indebted families, it is of the utmost importance that we honour them.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-575	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Lotta Johnsson Fornarve. We need to keep thinking about whether the limitation period will be necessary. There is a lot to suggest that you first try deleveraging as an action. There are several advantages to that. For a start, 15 years is a long time. Being stuck in debt for 15 years really puts a strain on a family, including the children. Debt restructuring can come in much earlier than that. As a result, you can get a faster relief in your economy than having to wait as long as 15 or 20 years. The limitation period also applies to one debt at a time. As a consumer, loans are often taken over for a long time. Then it takes even longer before you get to the far end. By deleveraging, however, the whole debt problem is dealt with, all debts at once. Also, it is a great advantage if debt adjustment is to be made in relation to the limitation period. Our main focus is to test the measures that are now included in the strategy. At the same time, however, we are prepared to continue to follow the issue. If it turns out that it is not enough, we are prepared to look at new measures as well. I'm glad Lotta Johnsson Fornarve brings out the children. The situation of children is very vulnerable when the family is over-indebted. It is an area in which we have chosen to commit ourselves. We have clearly focused on this. Children's perspectives must be included in the design of measures and when authorities act to help people who are over-indebted. It is incredibly important that we have a clear children's perspective and continue to give priority to the children's situation. This is an area where you get into serious social problems. Over-indebted families are also more affected by diseases and social problems. We really need to focus on giving children the best possible upbringing and the best opportunities forward.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-581	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Minister Per Bolund for being here. It gives us the opportunity to broaden the debate. In addition to the long and highly topical debate on how to get more housing that we had just now, there is speculation elsewhere, perhaps even here to some extent, that we have a housing bubble. It also speculates on what the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority's proposal for an amortisation requirement, which has received both rice and rose, could mean. It is very much a consumer issue. Although the proposals differ, everyone seems to agree here that the lack of housing is the real cause of rising housing prices and household indebtedness. However, many warn that the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority's proposal for amortisation if it is designed incorrectly risks becoming a medicine that instead of curing the patient makes it even sicker. Having listened to the debate today, it has become clear that the government's only solution to the housing issue is to reintroduce subsidies. It may be that way. But it is also a measure that risks impairing the patient's health. And it will hardly reduce the risk of a housing bubble, at least not significantly. What is the Minister of Finance's recipe to get housing started? Does he agree that more rules need to be simplified, such as speeding up and simplifying the planning decision? And above all, how does the Minister for the Financial Market view the proposals that have been made earlier this autumn by the Center Party, recently also by other parties, on a review of taxes on buying, owning and selling their homes?
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-586	Mr President, I would like to Let us note that one of the major risks with regard to the housing situation and the housing market and thus the possibility of new construction is not having control of the financial markets, the economic system. If we build up large risks that risk creating financial unrest and financial instability, as we saw during the 1990s here in Sweden, we know that the possibilities of building housing for anyone who needs it are drastically reduced. This creates major difficulties for the construction market. Acting to reduce risks in the financial system is therefore responsible, including in terms of creating housing. We are now in the process of developing an amortisation requirement and will present it to the Riksdag. It is about giving Finansinspektionen a mandate to make a proposal, which will ensure that we have a healthy amortisation culture in Sweden. I am pleased that there is a broad consensus in Parliament on this. It is a proposal that has broad support, which creates stability and stability. We have also agreed that we should have an exception in the amortisation requirement for new construction. In the case of new construction, banks will not be required to have amortization. There is the possibility of making an exception for that. However, we will see how the banks choose to look at it. It is up to the banks themselves whether or not they want to grant grace. It's a free market. However, we think it is important to strengthen the amortisation culture. Otherwise, there is a risk of major instability building up in the longer term. Banks have already improved the amortisation culture. This is now much higher than in previous years. I think that has been prompted by the fact that there has been a discussion on these issues. It's important. I do not agree with Ola Johansson's analysis that our only solution would be subsidies on the housing market. We are looking at a broad range of measures, including continued regulatory simplification. However, it is important that we create the conditions for building what is most lacking in the housing market, namely small rental apartments. Unfortunately, this is an area where no solutions have been found in the previous eight years.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-594	Mr President, I would like to When we discuss housing issues in the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, it is to a large extent a question of how we should work to trim the sails. Ensuring that it blows is often a financing issue governed by other decisions. In my main speech, I also highlighted the taxes to buy, own and sell their home. It is an area in which the housing market can be reformed in the long term. Mobility can be increased and housing investments can also be started. Now more parties seem to want to reach out to the government for cross-block talks and perhaps an agreement on how to review these taxes. Nothing should be left out, at least the capital gains taxes that prevent people from selling and moving to a more suitable dwelling, or even the interest rebates that are, according to many, a contributing cause of indebtedness and housing speculation with a lot of loans. But Per Bolund's colleague, Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson, seems to have rejected the idea of even discussing, for example, the future of interest rebates. Now, once again, I will reach out and ask for an answer. But the government seems to tie its empty hand in its pocket. Is it not time to open it now, to put forward proposals on the table that are taking us some step forward, in order to get more housing across the country without risking a housing crash that affects residential consumers?
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-597	Mr President, I would like to As I said, in broad talks with the opposition, the government has managed to arrive at an important measure. The responsible authorities have raised it as perhaps the most important tool, namely a measure to improve the amortisation culture in Sweden. But the government has also made it clear that we want to continue to hold talks. We have also extended a hand to the opposition to continue to hold talks. For example, interest rebates are an issue that we are interested in discussing further. But we also need to look at other measures in the housing market. It is a rather broad discussion that has touched on many different areas. Tax issues have also been at the forefront of the debate. The government continues to be interested in conducting such talks and seeking broad solutions in this area. On the other hand, we see that the opposition seems to be deeply divided here too. Among other things, the Moderates have had a rather repulsive attitude. They are not prepared to discuss the issues further, at least not until other issues, such as the amortisation requirement, are in place and completed. Then we are a number of months ahead of time. I hope that there is interest, for example, from the Center Party in conducting such talks. The government is ready and would like to continue to do so. Ola Johansson did not mention the major cuts proposed in the area of consumer protection, which I mentioned in my speech. I am very concerned about this and I do not think that the challenges, for example when it comes to being a disgruntled consumer, are being tried in the General Complaints Board. If you choose not to give money to an authority that is already hard hit and where applications increase, you do not really have the best interests of consumers in mind. I hope that Ola Johansson and the Center Party will be prepared to reconsider their position in this area in the future.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-603	Mr President, I would like to I strongly disagree with the Government's description that the Alliance Government was not initiative-rich, did nothing in the consumer field and was not interested in the issues. I do not share that view. On the one hand, it was the Alliance Government that introduced Hello consumer – I and the Government have taken up this point in our speeches – and, on the other hand, a number of other measures were implemented to improve the situation of consumer credit, fraud invoices and several other things. These include two investigations, which I am sure are the basis for the strategy that the government has now put forward on over-indebtedness. But enough about that. I have a question about the new consumer policy objective. The objectives of the Alliance government's consumer policy were – as I said at the outset – consumer power with a high level of consumer protection. There is, of course, sustainable consumption and several other things raised by the Government in its speech. Now the focus seems to be on regulating markets and not focusing on people. That is what I am concerned about, so I would like to ask: what do the Government think will be the consequences of this? What are the regulations that the Government claims will be implemented in order to achieve the new consumer policy objective? The old consumer policy objective reached exactly what the government parties wanted to achieve. Several here have considered that seven out of ten see sustainability as an important prerequisite when shopping. It is a sign that the old target reached what we wanted to achieve. I'm not aloof. But the government's choice narrows down the consumer policy objective, not the other way around.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-609	Mr President, I would like to We must agree that we do not agree on the commitment to consumer policy during the last two terms of office. It is true that two investigations were set up, but we should remember that it was a period when the credit markets changed very much. This applies to the whole phenomenon of quick loans that came to the Swedish market and all the risks that these brought. Nevertheless, I stand by my view that the previous government was paralysed in this matter. There were no measures to help the consumer in the difficult situation. It has also had the consequence that we have now had a rapid increase in the number of people who have had debt problems and ended up in the register of the bailiff. A little more rapid analysis and action would have been welcome. Clearly, it is easier to do something about the problems early than to wait too long until they have had too much impact. As far as the issue of consumer power is concerned, it is obviously also a priority for the government. We believe that it is very clearly part of the functioning consumer markets. Here I would like to emphasise once again that the target is about well-functioning consumer markets. It is not about markets in general, it is not about the focus on the producer, it is about consumer markets. A consumer market that works means that we as consumers have the opportunity to act and make our choices. I do not think that Mrs Roswall is doing the right analysis when she says that the old target reached the right measures. I do not think that we can thank the previous government for the commitment of consumers. Many consumers feel that they do not have the opportunity that would really be needed to be an active consumer. There I see a major problem that needs to be addressed. That is why we also need to focus more on sustainability issues in order to offer the help and tools that consumers need.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-615	Mr President, I would like to Yes, there has been a rapid increase in overindebtedness. What we are partly talking about is the eternal debtors who are very many, and they have been in the records for over 20 years. So it's not a new phenomenon. I mentioned the strategy and over-indebtedness. There are elements that are good, but there are several parts where there are no concrete measures. Having a strategy means wanting something concrete. I brought up personal finances at school. What does the government intend to follow in that part? The second part concerns budgetary and debt advisors. There you say you should follow the question. That's my criticism. It is easy to say that there is a strategy, but concrete proposals must also be made.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-619	Mr President, I would like to As far as over-indebtedness is concerned, we have already come up with a strategy in the first year that is very broad. It is about helping people who are going into financial difficulties. If the negative trend can be broken early, it is much easier for all parties, while reducing the damage. It is also a question of helping those who have been over-indebted and who, at worst, have been stuck in it for a long time, perhaps for decades. There we are now working actively to provide funds and also to change the regulations so that there will be much more opportunities for debt restructuring. The strategy also includes that we work preventively and try to make efforts to increase knowledge and increase the opportunities for consumers to value the offers they face. It's about going in there and helping out at school. The government and the authorities have taken action. We are also, of course, conducting a dialogue on how these issues come into teaching on various subjects, as you can take up personal finances and show how to calculate interest rates and the like. So there we have an active work. But there is also a need to focus on adult education and skills development. Finansinspektionen is actively working to provide information, for example, to new arrivals in connection with SFI education, but also at workplaces around our country. This type of knowledge-building information reaches about 100 000 people each year. This is a very important and high priority area for the government and a prerequisite for us to be aware consumers also in the credit market.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-622	Mr President, I would like to I want to talk about false marketing, what the Green Party has been doing in the discussion over the last half hour. Birgitta Ohlsson was liberal minister of state and consumer minister during the time of the Alliance. I want to tell you a little bit about what we've done. We introduced Hello consumer, both on email and phone. It was the biggest consumer policy initiative that has been made in over two decades, so I really wonder what the Government is talking about. We have also changed the law so that it is not possible to debt children. We have strengthened the protection of credit. For example, you have a right of withdrawal for two weeks. We have also pushed for a common European consumer protection law. As far as I know, that is something the Green Party does not want. We have also introduced the Swedish Consumer Agency's annual consumer report. This is something I know very well that the Green Party is using very well to point out what shortcomings and problems there are in the Swedish consumer market. We have tightened up the supervision of fast businesses. An investigator has been tasked with identifying the problems of fake invoices, telephone sales, debt restructuring and similar. There are several liberals who have carried out various investigations. Now you have set up a new investigation, although there is a complete investigation of debt restructuring, so you could have come more quickly to the Riksdag if you wanted to. The Liberals also pursued the issue of telephone sales and online information. We want rental statistics and a rental deposit so you can't use second-hand tenants We want to lower the transfer tax. We want a whole tax reform, actually. We want to move on to what we call green capitalism, that is, a shift in which there is less tax on labour and more tax on environmentally unfriendly consumption. It is a rather tough investment in consumer policy. Liberals invest more money in the consumer field than the government and the Green Party do. I wish the Minister didn't do false marketing. It doesn't benefit anyone.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-636	Mr President, I would like to I don't know if anyone's getting close to the kind of high tone Robert Hannah is doing. We note that Hallå konsument was created during this year and during this government, in March 2015. I am happy to admit that the preparatory work was done by the previous government, but it is we who have made sure that it has been implemented. Now we are also restocking the necessary resources, but unfortunately the previous government did not choose to develop them. Instead, it chose to cut back on all consumer areas, with negative consequences. I can also say that the facts speak clearly. There has been a huge development in the credit market during the last government's eight years in power that it was unable to meet. It has had the effect of many people getting into debt problems that they might not have had to get into if the government had played a more active role. Other governments have chosen to try to tackle the problem much more actively. In Finland, for example, and in many other countries, an interest rate cap on loans has been introduced precisely because it seeks to limit the effects of almost unregulated credit markets. The Swedish previous government has chosen not to do so. On the contrary, consumers have chosen to cut consumer policy rather than invest. It is clear that it also affects the functioning of consumer markets. The fact that Robert Hannah chose in his question to bring up things that are included in the Liberals' proposals in this budget as something that the previous government did shows that there might still be quite empty in that toolbox, that there were no measures. He has had to fill up with measures after the previous government has left its position. There are also issues relating to housing taxes, which may not have much to do with consumer policy. But it may sound better if we try to add measures outside consumer policy as well.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-641	Mr President, I would like to It's a loud tone. Yes, it goes very well to describe what the Government here described: that the Alliance had done nothing during its eight years in government. I think it is a rather bad way of trying to keep a good tone with its opposition, especially given that there is quite a lot that we actually like equally. This applies, for example, to telephone sales and how to work with debt restructuring and the like. Then perhaps it is not so beneficial to have such a tone and to claim that the opposition did nothing when it was in power. That's not very good. I think Hallå konsument is a very important venture. But just as the Government describes, it is a complement. The City of Gothenburg's consumer advice is much larger than Hallå konsument. The most important thing is that consumer advice is available at local level. The reason why we have chosen to say no to the new consumer policy objective is simply that it does not cover the whole area better than our own proposal does. Our consumer policy objective is about the power of consumers. Consumers' power goes beyond sustainable consumption. We think that sustainable consumption is very important and great, but the power of consumers must also be strengthened against rogue entrepreneurs. Knowledge in school must be strengthened, in home knowledge and the like. All aspects need to be strengthened. We do not want to say that only sustainable consumption is consumer policy. There are many more important aspects of consumer policy than sustainable consumption, which in itself is one of the most important elements, especially when it comes to limiting rogue entrepreneurs. I wish for a better entrance than saying that the Alliance and the Liberals did nothing when they were in power, because that is not true. But we can do a lot together in the future. I look forward to the proposals that will come to Parliament.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-645	Mr President, I would like to Having a good tone also means trying to quote each other correctly. What I said in my speech was that this was a down-priority area under the alliance government. That's what I stand for. On the other hand, I have not claimed that nothing was done. It is, I think, important to note how the development has been. We should be able to say together that not enough has been done, because the problems in the field of consumer protection have actually grown in many fields. Many consumers feel that they do not have the information and knowledge or the help they need in the consumer market in order to be active and aware consumers. We see growing problems of over-indebtedness as an example of this. It is, if anything, a sign that more could have been done to counteract that development. I welcome the fact that Robert Hannah raises the issue of rogue entrepreneurs and the situation of entrepreneurs – I also think it is important. It is an area where we are now working. Entrepreneurs' ability to deal with debt, for example, is also an area that the government is now looking at. It is about trying to enable entrepreneurs to get debt restructuring and to be free of debt. We have also tightened up the opportunities for the Swedish Consumer Agency and the Swedish Consumer Ombudsman to go in and fix when rogue entrepreneurs do marketing that misleads consumers. Nor was it an area where there were any activities, as far as I am aware, from the previous government. That is something we have done this year. I'm glad that Robert Hannah corrected at the end and said that sustainable consumption is an important area. From the beginning, it sounded like it was a less important area. I hope that we can agree that this is a high priority area. You can look at the environmental impact that we have as consumers. It increases over time, while the environmental impact that we have inside our country has actually decreased. If you do not focus on sustainable consumption, you will not be able to solve the environmental and climate challenges that we face. I hope that we can reach agreement there.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-650	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that both the Minister for Housing and the Minister for Finance chose to participate in the debate. Like some of my alliance colleagues, I have reacted a little to the view of what was or was not done in relation to consumer policy. I think we should all be fairly honest about the fact that society has changed. Especially in these years there have been huge challenges. It has been a completely different way when it comes to aggressive marketing. The risk of falling into the debt trap has increased. Companies have a business idea to exploit consumers and businesses in a completely different way than before. I think the Minister replied quite clearly to the Left Party in a previous change of line: it is quite difficult to always get right in the legislation. Is the way forward to ban short-term loans or to introduce a 15-year limitation period? You can look at Finland, which the Minister mentions as an example. I think somewhere this is about getting right. It's about showing that you're doing things, but it's also about getting right. I can say that a large part of the proposals presented in the Government's budget, but also the ideas of this strategy, are based on the investigations that we have set up. As far as the way forward is concerned, I think we will have quite a few additional challenges. Then I think it is important that we try to look forward and that we do not point our finger too much at what has been. Because it's hard to get right. I do not think that a ban on SMS loans or quick loans is the solution either, because it will hit those who otherwise cannot get a loan. I think you need to turn this around. Sometimes it sounds like a simple solution, but it hits those who are farthest from the market that we might want them to get some support and help in.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-656	Mr President, I would like to Let me start with the last one. Nor does the government have any proposal for us to ban SMS loans in the strategy that we have now developed. It is also highlighted, among other things, by investigator Anna Hedborg that there may be times when you actually need access to fast credit. If you are lucky and have rich relatives, you have more opportunities to get credit that way. If you are not, you may need to obtain credit from another market. But it must be a market that is designed in such a way that you actually understand what business you are entering so that you are not deceived by false pretenses. In the advertising that we are greeted with, it sometimes sounds like there are no costs at all. There is no information on the total cost of the loan. We have seen examples of starting with a very small sum. But interest creates unsustainable problems for a borrower or a family. In terms of priorities and commitment to various issues, one can take into account, among other things, the level of activity. I think it's hard to say that this government hasn't been very active. We are already presenting a strategy against over-indebtedness in the first budget, which we are now presenting to Parliament. We also present and work on a strategy for sustainable consumption. It is a new level of commitment to consumer issues compared to the past. If you do not think it is enough, you can look at the economic priorities, which somewhere say what political priorities are being set. There it is clear that the initiative that we in the government are now making in the consumer market is an effort that is greater than in many decades and goes far beyond the resources that the previous government prioritised in the area of consumer protection. I think that is worth noting in such a debate on consumer policy.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-659	Mr President, I would like to I think the first message is that you should be ready for quite a lot more, because it is something that has been clear during these eight years. What I just said was that you have to have solutions that are also sustainable in the long term. Prohibition is not always the solution. The concept of sustainability has been up to a great deal. I also think that sustainable consumption is very important. But both in this debate and at a meeting we had with the Minister, he said: We spent extra money especially on the concept of sustainability in relation to Hallå konsument. You can look at what the budget text says. It does not say that this would have to do with sustainability. We see that municipalities are now starting to save, which I find worrying and unfortunate. This was supposed to be seen as a complement. It is a question of the Minister clarifying it a little. I want to make it clear that when we give money to Hallå konsument, it is about simple and quick questions. One should also be able to cave into the difficult which is much closer to the citizens in the municipal area. I am a little worried when it is said that it is a new effort to promote the concept of sustainability. It is also not Hallå konsument's own perspective on what their task is. Then there is the debt adjustment for entrepreneurs. I mentioned this in my speech. I think it is desirable for the government to move forward with the issue of debt restructuring for entrepreneurs. The new investigation, which we set up, has several good suggestions. If we want more entrepreneurship, which we want, and if we want more people to have the courage to invest both time and capital in starting a business, then they must also have another chance. I think it is a very big problem today that it is difficult to get a second chance as an entrepreneur. In other countries bankruptcy is almost seen as a good experience, but in Sweden it is calculated forever. I think this is a major problem, and I hope that the government will return as soon as possible. My first question therefore relates to the concept of sustainability, and the second is: when do you come back to debt restructuring for entrepreneurs?
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-665	Mr President, I would like to I welcome Caroline Szyber's entry into the debate, and I think it is very good if we can try to find common approaches to consumer policy in the future, broadly and perhaps particularly with regard to sustainable consumption, which is an area that the government will pay particular attention in the coming year. There I hope that we can try to find a broad consensus and common solutions. When it comes to Hallå konsument and the initiative we are making there linked to sustainability, I think Caroline Szyber mixes two different initiatives together. We have an addition to Hallå konsument precisely because we see that there has been a very high pressure with many consumers who have heard from them, which also shows a damp need that has not been vented before. That's where we spend 3 million kroner. We also add SEK 3 million during the first year, which then grows to SEK 4 million for sustainability work within the Swedish Consumer Agency and from the Swedish Consumer Ombudsman. This is an area that has unfortunately had to be prioritised by the Swedish Consumer Agency for eight years. Efforts were made when the alliance government took office, but they had to be prioritised as they have had to save and spend money in other areas. Now we will be able to make a fresh start in that area, and that is something that I think is very important. I also know that there is a great deal of pressure and commitment from consumers who reproduce to the work of the Swedish Consumer Agency, where they also get many questions and views. I agree that debt restructuring for entrepreneurs is an important area. Entrepreneurs, too, sometimes find themselves in difficulties beyond their own control, and it is important that a second chance is also provided. One should be able to start a new company and get a debt adjustment from the unfortunate financial consequences that might come from a previous company. This is also part of what the government is now working on, and we will come back to Parliament on this. I can therefore promise proposals that will make it easier for entrepreneurs to get debt restructuring and start a new entrepreneurial track without debts in their luggage.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-671	Mr President, I would like to We have had a good debate on housing policy here today, and I thought I'd get back to it a little bit. It got a little weird in the list of speakers after many tours in the discussion on how to post it. I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report. I thought it started out very well when Caroline Szyber quoted me and said that we needed to have a different tone in this debate, and I actually think we have had a different tone today. It has been a reasonable debate in which, although we are partly thinking differently, we have been able to talk to each other. I therefore look forward to future debates and to being able to agree on things. However, something is missing. The parties in the Alliance have been clear about their positions. We, from the red-green side, have been clear about our positions. But the third largest party in this Parliament is completely silent. There are probably many with me who wonder what the Swedish Democrats want in housing policy. How will more housing be built? How will more cheap housing be built that Roger Hedlund talks about? Now he has left the Chamber, but perhaps Mikael Eskilandersson can go up and give an answer to that. There is talk of a heavy break in reception, but how does it create more housing? How does it create cheaper housing? You're supposed to increase competition, because there are three big construction giants. Yes, but they are not the only ones in the Swedish construction market today. I can inform you that there are many other players in the construction market. You can increase competition against the three poor giants and say: It is not a pity for them, they earn well with money. But that does not solve housing policy in any way. Then you talk about regulatory simplifications, but I don't even know what regulatory simplifications you're talking about. These are the only proposals that have emerged from the Swedish Democrats in this important housing policy debate. I find it remarkable that Sweden's third largest party does not have a better housing policy to present in Parliament.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-678	Mr President, I would like to I would first like to support the Moderates' reservation point 4 and, otherwise, to refer to our specific opinion. Mr President, I would like to There's worry in the world. We have refugee flows of over 70 million people around our planet and economic instability in many countries. Not least in Sweden, we notice this in a tangible way, with a large number of people seeking asylum. There is also concern that economic imbalances will lead to a decline in the world economy. This will affect Sweden with great power, because we are so dependent on exports. Our current pension system is strongly tied to the economy and to those working in Sweden. Previously, we had an ATP system that was neither linked to growth, life expectancy nor to work. It was also preferential, and all of this made the system implode from within. It may be good to keep in mind because the Left Party is still arguing for the reintroduction of a similar system. Our new pension system, introduced in the early 2000s, is much more linked to work. You earn your pension points and get your pension rights, crown for crown, up to a maximum level. In addition, there is no longer any lower or upper limit on how many years you can earn a better pension. However, one thing needs to be emphasised once again because many still do not understand how the pension system is constructed, namely that today's workers pay today's pensions through pension contributions and that future workers pay future pensions. It's a so-called generation contract. We assume that our children and grandchildren will pay us pension contributions when we retire. There are still too many people who believe that their pension contributions have been paid into some AP funds and are there waiting for them until they retire. If we are to get respect from future generations to pay pension contributions to our promises on pensions, it is extremely important that each generation pays separately and does not overwhelm the debts of future workers. It must be seen as a fair system. This applies both to contributions to the pension system, future pension ages and also to changes in the premium pension scheme. I say this because there are signals to change and reduce the premium pension system. That would be a big mistake, as growth has been over 6% from the start 20 years ago. Experience from the whole of the 20th century shows that the return from this type of savings is much more than the stake. That is why this type of saving is very important for our future pensions, precisely for our children and grandchildren. Although our pension system is so constructed that it holds different imbalances, it needs to be strengthened in order not to run the risk of balancing in normal economic downturns. That is why the various governments and the pension group have set up a number of studies to strengthen, clarify and simplify the pension system in different ways. We have a number of factors to consider. There will be many fewer people working in the future in relation to pensioners. The pension should last longer, because we are getting older. We need to strengthen the asset side of the pension system. This is why the pension group has a number of challenges ahead that are about how we should manage and strengthen the system. The Pensions Group has also set up a study to look at how we can get more equal pensions, which is also important. Mr President, I would like to It is important to point out that there is only one thing that can pay for pensions and give the system stability for the foreseeable future, namely work, work and re-employment. More people in work provide better pensions. The 40s generation has now largely retired, and this means that people are already missing in many workplaces – not least in health care. Now there are three workers on each pensioner. Already in 20 to 25 years' time, that figure will be close to two employees on each pensioner unless the conditions change before then. Our Swedish pension system can withstand and is designed for this type of change, but the pension level risks being too low for many people who above all do not have enough occupational pensions or started working at an early age. We must therefore, in future, have a more flexible system for entering full-time retirement. Mr President, I would like to There is a stable majority for our Swedish pension system. It is now six parties across the block border who have taken their responsibility for Sweden to have a stable pension system that will cope with the various pressures from demography and increases in the average age to strong cyclical fluctuations. But then my first question comes to the red-green parties and, first and foremost, the Left. Since the introduction of the new pension system, you have criticised this and have often said that a completely new system should be introduced. You also complain about the levels of the pension system and want back a preferential system that can provide between 65 and 70% of the final salary. It sounds good if you don't look at the consequences this would have. This would mean that the pension system would have to be strengthened by several thousand billion if all people were to be included now and in the future. I understand that it is a benevolent wishful thinking, but if you are a serious parliamentary party, then you must also look at the financial consequences of such a proposal. Where are you going to take all this money? Should the tax be increased to 60% on ordinary income and pensions? The question to the Social Democrats is this: you are quite rightly doing a tax cut for pensioners, even if it is a limited group. Not everyone is allowed to take part in the reduction, but there is still a tax reduction. But then you raise taxes and contributions for pensioners in a number of areas – not to forget the petrol tax. Many pensioner groups even lose at the end of the day when you add plus and minus. I would also like to ask the Swedish Democrats a question. I note that this year, too, you have made a strong effort on the guarantee pensioners in your draft budget. It sounds benevolent and good, and many people want to do it. But I still don't understand how you get the equation together. Everyone involved in pension issues knows that the difference in pensions and housing allowances between those with only guaranteed pensions and those with low income pensions is small. Do you know that the consequence of your proposal is that the net pension can be higher for a guaranteed pensioner than a low-paid income pensioner? Mr President, I would like to I am pleased to note that, from the end of 2016, pension levels will rise for most groups. Both supplementary and income pensions increase by over 4.2 per cent. This gives an old-age pensioner who has 12 000 in pension 492 SEK more a month or 5 900 SEK per year. A pensioner with a pension of 15,000 receives SEK 615 more a month. This is a consequence of the fact that Sweden did well a couple of years ago, because it is always a couple of years' delay. The government part of the pension system has a turnover of over 36 billion. In addition, the income pension system – the really large part – has a total turnover of SEK 285 billion. The Swedish pension system totals EUR 321.7 billion. I would like to conclude my speech with the following three yes, which are important for the pension system.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-700	Mr President, I would like to I am a little wondering that in his speech Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng did not mention women once. It's a little strange. It is precisely women who are a bit in trouble in the tables on pensions. Every other woman can't live on her pension. That's what it looks like today. Let me give you an example. A 40 - year - old nurse has a general pension of SEK 11 500 a month. When you count on her occupational pension, you see that she will end up at $1,500 a month. Then tax will be added. Then she ends up at about SEK 10 150 in round throws. This level is well below the poverty line in Sweden. The EU has highlighted this. How can Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng, the Moderates, stand here and talk about the entire pension system without mentioning the problems that have also arisen? It's strange. This is especially about women who have worked their whole lives in jobs with decent income. Yet they end up on a pension where they barely make it. Should they pawn cans or have Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng other suggestions? What does Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng have to say to the women whose economy is not at its peak when they become retired?
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-703	Mr President, I would like to Why I just mentioned the Left Party is because your colleagues have said on several occasions in the speaker's chair that you want a new pension system. You can wish for that. But the equation for paying a new pension system has not in any way proved. If you wanted freely, it would be great to raise your pension both 2 000, 3 000 or 5 000 SEK. There's a lot of people who could use it. But this should be paid on the other side of the equation. If this were to happen, there would be substantial tax increases, perhaps precisely for the groups that Karin Rågsjö wants to protect. As far as women are concerned, Karin Rågsjö did not listen to my entire speech. I said that the Pensions Group has set up an investigation to review the issue of more equal pensions. It's important. The pension system itself is not really unequal. On the other hand, there is still an unequal working life. That's what happens when people retire. Together, we must help to ensure that working life is more equal and, in the long run, pensions are more equal. As Karin Rågsjö says, women are more over-represented among those with low pensions. But the entire Pensions Group and our party, together with other parties, have this issue high on the agenda.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-707	Mr President, I would like to There are 24 billion fund contributions each year. It's not shame. You can think about that. Sweden is not a poor country. Sweden is walking like a train right now. Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng began as a coming major crisis. It's not like that. Unemployment is falling and the economy is rising. That's what it looks like right now. There is money to be collected: interest deductions EUR 32 billion per year, ROT deductions and RUT deductions EUR 18 billion, tax reductions for those who have the very best value of EUR 99 billion. There is much to be considered when it comes to bringing together women who have been affected by the new pension system. It cannot be reasonable for women to have a pension level that is 65% of men's pension levels. There are many women today, 50-plus or 60-plus, who wonder how to fix their lives. It's gone wrong. It is clear that it is totally unreasonable for the new gentlemen, banks and fund managers, to cash in as much money as they have been able to make on all these funds. Of course there's money to take home. That is why we want an inquiry into the pension system to see how pensions can be increased for those who suffer from the system. Both Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng and I know that the very idea of the 2.5 per cent where one should be able to choose and wreck among different funds does not mean that people move their money here and there every year. That's not much enthusiasm. Maybe Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng knows something more about that.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-712	Mr President, I would like to I am rather tired of that expression – that it is said that it can be taken from the banks' profits, from the funds or from the big companies. If you take enough billions from there, you've solved the problem. Everyone knows that if one were to do such a thing – confiscation – the whole of society would lose out on it. The billions you're talking about, Karin Rågsjö, must be taken in a different way. Then it will probably be taxes and charges, and who will have to pay it? Yes, it will be the entire population. Even if you say that you should tax the millionaires, billionaires and so on, there will be no volumes of money if you do not take from ordinary income and fees. Then it will be ordinary women and men who will pay for this. Therefore, I have to say that if we want better pensions – and we all want that – we must ensure that the equation goes smoothly. Today, spending on the entire pension system is over 8 000 billion. AP funds are only part of this – 1 400 – 1 500 billion. It is a large part, but it is still only 14 - 15 percent. The large parts are on contributions from people who simply work and pay their pension contributions. If there is anything we should be careful about, it is the premium pension, that we keep it. It has given growth of over 6% and will be a very important part of future pensioners, our children and grandchildren. The pension authority has calculated that it will affect by about 2 000 – 3 000 per month that the premium pensions give more than the other. This is an important part of higher growth than in the income pension system. Therefore, I protect the premium pension – unlike you, Karin Rågsjö.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-717	Mr President, I would like to The question was whether we have thought that in some cases it could be that the guarantee pensions would be slightly higher. Yes, we have.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-718	I think it is a good thing, and I welcome the fact that this is being addressed. I want to see our budget as a whole, and when it has gained a hearing in Parliament – probably not in the next twelve months but nevertheless – we can certainly look at whether changes need to be made for those with the lowest, so to speak. Maybe we should do it together.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-720	Mr President, I would like to I welcome that answer, because for several years before you have not had a properly thought-out answer to this. Then it becomes so simple; then it will be as you might say in society: If we just give more to the guarantee pensioners, we have solved the problem. We don't. There is a huge group that lies between a guarantee pension and a low or medium-high pension. That group is perhaps the largest group, and it must always be balanced against the guarantee pension. The cost is therefore clearly higher, and this must be balanced. But it's great that the Swedish Democrats – if I'm going to be a little disrespectful – have realised this and counted on it. It is an important part of having a credible change in this.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-723	Mr President, I would like to I thank you very much for the half confession or what to call it. I would like to point out that we are also investing in other areas where pensioners are concerned. We bet a lot, as Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng probably knows. Not least, we are abolishing the unjust pensioner's tax imposed by his government. I believe that the credibility of our willingness to make things better for Sweden's pensioners is good. At the same time, I believe, quite honestly, that this kind of comment is important for future work.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-726	Mr President, I would like to I, too, believe that there is much to do in the pension system, and I, too, welcome a discussion on how we can improve pensions for the most deprived – indeed. This discussion is also taking place in the Pensions Group. Maybe it's the really big headache. Every grand you raise your pensions with – as you would like to do tomorrow – costs about 20 billion in a small kick as soon as you start raising. Overall, this means that this has to be balanced against a lot of other expenses. You have shown this, although I am not quite in on the equation that you put in with regard to migration policy. I'd like to take a closer look at it. It is easy to remove billions in theory, but in reality it is real services and real expenses that cannot be hijacked for a year. It often takes years to remove those expenses. It is not possible to just put them over and say that this is what we are going to have for pensions instead.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-729	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the Social Security Committee's report 2015/ 16:SfU2. I shall begin by supporting the special opinion of the Swedish Democrats on Category 11 and by calling for reservation 3, that is what has been done. Economic security in old age – it sounds nice and good even if you do not delve into its significance. But if you do, if you think about how much it is worth and how much good it does, both morally and practically... It is not that Sweden happens to be in a particularly favorable place on earth, where welfare sprays out of mysterious springs into the ground. Sometimes you get the impression that some politicians and perhaps especially debaters think so – that welfare is a mineral or something that we have happened to get a lot of. Or more common: we have had enough luck to get a lot of it. But that's not the case. It's not luck. It's not luck. It's millions of people's toil. Well-being is the same thing as millions of people's toil. It is nothing more than rude, ignorant, negligent and, in fact, utterly repulsive to claim that it would be about luck. Well-being, all well-being, from the police and fire department to parental insurance and unemployment insurance, is or rests on an inheritance that we who trampled this land today have received from those who trampled this land yesterday. Just as all our aspirations, here in politics or in other areas, are to create a stable and secure society to hand over to our children are not lucky, it is not fortunate that we have the joy of living in a relatively rich society. It is someone who has built it for us, not only by toil but also by an almost endless series of wise, active decisions. It is an inheritance from our ancestors, and I am most grateful for it. Of course, many of those who have built this country have long been dead. But not all of them. Those who have worked and worked hard to give us the country we live in today deserve all respect and gratitude. But they also deserve a safe old age. This is the moral, principled part of the Swedish Democrats' positions in the area of expenditure in question – economic security in old age. The elderly who have worked their whole lives, at work or at home, should not have to live a poor life when they have grown old – whether it is economically good or economically bad. But as I said, there is the second part, the question that every serious politician must of course take into account: is this a reasonable economic priority? I mean, it's all connected. I believe that the security of citizens in a safe country is a prerequisite for the prosperity and growth that are the very foundation of our prosperity. I am convinced that economic and also physical security is an important part of why our country has been so successful and prosperous and to some extent still is. I do not think I am alone in the view that the way a society treats its elderly also affects everyone's view of the public, of the state, of taxes and of solidarity. Who wants to work his whole life, to do the right thing, to follow laws and rules, to pay taxes and then to be treated as a burden and to be forced to live without financial margins? Surely it has not escaped anyone that the Swedish democrats want to abolish the unjust pensioner tax altogether, even if it does not concern what we are debating today in technical terms. The guarantee pensions, on the other hand, fall within the area of expenditure we are now debating. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats are allocating funds to greatly strengthen the financial situation of our guarantee pensioners. For an unmarried average guarantee pensioner, our investment would give about 10 percent more a month to move around with. It is our absolute greatest effort and will, on the day we get the majority for our budget, mean an enormous amount to this vulnerable group of people, often women. Women choose more often than men to take parental leave, and they choose more often than men to work part-time during the period of life when the family has young children. Therefore, because of our outdated parental insurance and our rigid approach to pension rights, many of the present working generations, preferably women, will unfortunately have a worse pension than they should have. The Swedish Democrats want to change this by making it easy and free to share pension points between spouses and cohabiting couples. In this way, the family itself can control their daily lives without any separation later in life implying that someone becomes insolvent when he retires. Self-determination, freedom of choice and security – that's how Sweden's families want it, that's how Sweden's pensioners want it.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-745	Mr President, I would like to At the beginning of this report, we can read that pensioners have been better off financially and that it has to do with those with the lowest pensions, i.e. those with guarantee pensions, being better off in recent years. It is stated that there has been an increase of 13% since 2006. The current Social Democratic Government writes that it is due to tax cuts. That is true, Mr President, because the Alliance Government was involved in reducing taxes, especially for those with low incomes. Pensioners with the lowest incomes received most of the five tax reductions in this area. It is important to note and also to emphasise this. Now the government is going to lower the tax. For the first time in history, the Social Democratic Government is going to lower the tax on pensioners. Regrettably, this reduction in tax is not really going to be a plus for pensioners. They raise, as Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng said, the high-cost ceiling for the health and care costs for which the municipality is responsible. This means that the maximum cost is increased by SEK 224 per month, while the tax reduction for pensioners is about SEK 50. So it is eaten quite quickly. We all know how extremely important it is to afford and be able to get care when you need it. Giving with one hand and bringing the other is not good. What makes a difference to pensions, however we twist it and turn it around, is that everyone who is professional works as much as you can. In addition, it is good to work longer. Every month you work longer after you turn 65, you earn from it. Every month you retire before 65 you lose on it. It's important to think about. That is why we must make every effort to make it possible to work longer. That's how the system works. For this reason, the Center Party and the Alliance Government reduced the special wage tax for older people and doubled the job tax deduction for them. We want this to remain in the hands of center parties, but the government is now, of course, sabotaging it. We say yes to working and yes to more carrots so that people will want and can work. We need more people to work. Lifelong working life is important and should, Minister, be given priority by the Pensions Group in the future. If we work more, it will benefit not only the person who does it, but everyone in the pension system. That part is easily forgotten. It is also important that we have a life-long working life, that is, not only that we work further up the age bracket but also that we start working earlier. If we link it to gender equality, we see that it plays a very important role. As we have just heard, it is the single women who have had the lowest salaries who also have the lowest pensions. Then it is not just a question of raising the housing supplement, because it does not work, or increasing the guarantee pension, because it does not work either. We center partners also want to increase the guarantee pension, but increasing the guarantee pension reduces the distance to those who work and have an occupational pension, and that is not good. In order to raise the lowest level, we must help to ensure that people who have worked benefit from it. I learned that when I was retired for a week, something that SPF contributed to. Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng, Fredrik Lundh Sammeli, Carina Ohlsson and I participated in that attempt. I was the one with the highest pension, because I had been a teacher for 45 years. The difference between me and the lowest, Fredrik Lundh Sammeli, was just over 400 SEK per week. Because he got housing allowance, and I didn't. That's why the difference was very small. It is important to be involved when we are discussing the increase in the guarantee pension. In the case of single women with children, we centrers think it is important for them to be allowed to share pension rights with the father of the children, and not only the general pension but also the occupational pension. We know that it is when we have children that the unequal income begins. Women take longer parental leave, which is to the detriment of their pension later. It is important to point out to all young people. Therefore, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency informs you in a good way about what happens when you do not share parental leave. Women have a longer life expectancy, Mr President, and they lose that in terms of pensions. The compliance index, which means that we receive a higher pension just when we retire in order for the difference not to be so great between work and pension, makes it count off for the future of life. When you live long, there won't be much left until the end, as you can see. Women lose if they live longer. If you share pension rights, change compliance indexation and ensure that everyone has a longer working life, we will have a better pension and a more favourable pension existence. A longer working life, equal pensions and later retirement is, Madam Minister, what we really need to prioritise in the Pensions Group. We have to put on a coal because it burns in the knots if we are to get the proposals through before it starts to get too late. I look forward to contributing to this, because it gives young people, older immigrants and migrants the opportunity to enter their professional lives and receive a decent pension. Mr President, I therefore call for the special opinion that we have in the report to be approved.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-758	Mr President, I would like to This is an exciting area. I'm not on your committee. But you can immerse yourself in this. What I think everyone thinks when they get their orange envelopes home: Oh, my God, now I'm going to work for six months or another year! That's what it looks like when they open the envelope. Everyone in Sweden knows that. It's a joke today. I thought I'd check with you as a woman and a center party. It is about women with middle-class professions that the nurse I spoke about earlier. You're a nurse. You've been working for 40 years. Then it's not that you've been home very much, but you've weighted the numbers quite so much. You have your occupational pension and general pension. That still means you're below the poverty line. You get 10 150 SEK to live on per month. It requires that you rewind your economy quite so strongly. If you live in Stockholm, you can quickly see where to move next. This is a question for you as a woman and center party: What do you think we should do for all the women who are below the limit? A lot of people are very worried about their pension. There's no talk about it. It's also a class question. Looking at men, you can see that the underfunded income pension for an industrial worker now provides 52 percent of the final salary against promised 62 percent. It's not just women who've had to take a hit. It's more or less a class question. Today it is very difficult to get a pension that allows you to manage if you do not also save in private. Almost today you have to start doing that at the age of 18 to make it. My question to you concerns mainly women. It's about nurses, teachers and so on. What is your advice to the women who understand that their pension will be bad?
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-763	Mr President, I would like to My answer is quite simple: work a little longer. But I won't do it for myself to just answer that. What you're bringing up is very important. It's extremely important. One of the most important tasks we have in the Pensions Group is to see: How can we get pensions to be higher even for women? It is also about sharing parental leave. But it does not benefit those who are in their 55's today. I can honestly say that we in the Pensions Group are out talking a lot about pensions in different contexts. But the sad thing is, they're never the younger ones who get there. It is always today's pensioners who sit and listen. Those who can really change their lives are today's younger ones who are in their professional lives and can contribute to it. We have introduced into the system that pensioners receive housing allowances. That makes the difference for those with low pensions. They get the opportunity to get the housing supplement so that they get a larger disposable amount in their hand. As a center party, I do not think it is the absolute best way. But it is very targeted to enable pensioners with low income to get better. There are many other ways to do that. One way is to encourage our employers and unions to raise the wages of women's professions. I read in the newspaper today that LO was apparently not so interested in it, even during the upcoming election campaign. It scares me terribly.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-767	Mr President, I would like to We're not going to tie LO to the shame of pensions. I think that would be completely wrong. But you're talking about the younger ones. If you are young today and are 20 to 30 years old, it is very difficult to get a hold of the labour market regardless of whether you work as a journalist, teacher and so on. Maybe teachers will be fine. This means that you have fairly uncertain income. Nor will they be the winners in view of the labour market we have. You say you're supposed to work, you're supposed to work and you're supposed to work. It's easy for a person like me who's had a job sitting at a computer, doing fun things and not tearing out the body. But you can't say the same thing to a nurse, a cleaning lady or a worker who's been working pretty hard, working, working and working. Those people may not be able to work for more than 60 years, because then their bodies are more or less worn out. This is definitely a class issue. Those who cash the money and who can work for a long time are those who sit with completely different types of jobs than a nurse.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-770	Mr President, I would like to Now the Left Party will listen to me. It is about ensuring that we have a completely different labour market so that we can change jobs during our working life, that we change the LAS and enable women to have more and other employers so that they can change and not just have the public sector. This could help to give women the opportunity to change jobs during their working lives and thus also to be able to work longer than the age of 65 now stipulated. You are opposed to all these measures. It affects women. You come and say that there is a problem with the pension system. No, it's actually about the possibility of being able to work. We must ensure that we have a working environment that stimulates and enables us to manage, want and can work longer. It's not just about women in health care, it's about everyone at all. It is a matter for young people to enter the labour market quickly. There we have several different proposals on how to reduce employers' contributions for entrepreneurs so that they want, can and enable different people to come in. With regard to migrants and immigrants, we also have proposals from the Center Party on how to encourage them to start working from day one. All of this that you from the Left Party oppose is what is causing us to receive pensions in the future. There's no shortcut. We can't do magic with our knees. It is about work and being able to work. That is something that is extremely important for the Center Party.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-775	Mr President, I would like to When the orange envelope from the Pensions Agency comes, it doesn't usually feel like Christmas Eve at most. Specific women in low-wage jobs do not have much to enjoy. Being older and feeling extremely threatened by your personal economy makes a lot of people in Sweden, I promise. Most people look forward to quitting work, especially if they have had a hard physical job. On the other hand, the trick is to survive on your pension. The Left Party is not part of the Pensions Group, because we do not stand for the pension settlement that gave us the pension system we are discussing here and now. We therefore have no responsibility for the current situation where every other woman will not be able to live on her pension. But we are prepared to take responsibility and find different types of solutions. The pension is lower for people who work part-time, have periods of illness and unemployment or who, when they get older, are unable to work until 65 or 67 years of age. This is specifically a class issue. These include nurses or construction workers, for example. As a result of the large difference in life's income, the economic gap is growing among pensioners. That's definitely the way it is. As I said before, it's a class issue. Women pensioners today receive on average only 65% of men's pensions. This is a system that has created poor pensioners, contributes to growing gaps and is based on a type of speculation. It doesn't really feel like a hundred. We think it's some kind of cheating, and it's extremely unequal. The pension system is a rather expensive system. The fund selection has not been the total success that so many hoped for. In order to provide the AP Funds with sufficient resources to meet their original task, an increase in contributions should be investigated or contributions to the premium pension scheme should instead be allocated to the income pension scheme. It could also deal with similar pension benefits. Moreover, a parliamentary inquiry should be set up with the task of creating a stable pension system, because we do not think that this is a stable pension system. It goes without saying that pensions should follow wage developments instead of stock market developments. We are quite unique in Sweden, where we invest pension money on the stock exchange. Maybe you know about that. Those who have heavy and laborious jobs must be guaranteed a decent pension. Women should not be disadvantaged. That is the case now. That is why I am in favour of reservation 8 – the request for the 2.5% premium pension contribution to be added to the income pension system and for a parliamentary inquiry to be set up to design a new pension scheme. I demand that the rest of the motions be rejected. We want to create a long-term, sustainable and reliable pension system. We can again see that the system means that every other woman will not be able to live on her pension. The Left Party wants a pension system that is safe and solidarity-based and managed cost-effectively. When you look at Swedish funds you can clearly see that 25 billion is spent on fund fees. You may see for yourselves what you will have to pay if you change pension managers. Look at it next time – it could be an interesting story! 25 billion is as much as the entire Swedish child benefit. It is not a pity for the bans and fund managers today, I can tell you that. Our members do not trust the pension system, said LO President when LO presented a report on the pension system in 2011. The underfunded income pension now provides for an industrial worker 52 percent of the final salary against promised 62 percent. This, my friends, feels in my wallet. If you are unable to work until 65 years, your pension will be even lower. Work on it, work on it, you say comrades on this page. Perhaps you could ask an industrial worker what it feels like to get it in your ears. This is a system that welcomes our new gentlemen, banks and fund managers. But pensioners don't cheer all the way. In a later report from 2013, pensioners' organisations show how AP funds can be strengthened if the PPM contribution can be transferred to the income pension. It should be a matter of course that those who have built up our country – the Swedes who were born here, Greeks, Yugoslavians, Chileans and all who have contributed to our welfare in this country – can also have a secure old age. That is not the case today. We can expect to have plenty of resources for the next ten years. We must also actively continue to look at what we can do about the type of investment and what we can do to secure pensions. The PPM system provides uncertainty and costs large amounts of management fees. That's what all economists say and so on. Please read the various Swedish journalists, who have lifted this in different surrounding steams! If the contribution of 2.5% had been added to the income pension scheme from the outset, the reduction in pensions in recent years could have been avoided. The pension system should ensure that even those who have heavy and hard jobs receive a decent pension and that women are not disadvantaged. Today's system is increasing inequality, and especially women are hard hit. That's not how it's supposed to be.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-789	Mr President, I would like to There were a lot of words, and a lot about pensions. I'm gonna start from below. Is it a new pension system that Karin Rågsjö wants? If so, you must also tell us how you intend to pay for this. You can wish for a lot of things, but there should also be another side where you should be able to get this in. Otherwise, it's not credible. As for the orange envelope, I note that you said it was a joke. In that case, it's a very bad joke. If there is anything that the Pensions Group and governments, whatever their colour, have wanted to do, it is to get good information to pensioners. More can be developed; I can agree with that. But it's not a joke. We can think about how we educationally get the important information that Solveig mentioned: If you end up in a situation where the pension seems to be very low, you can work both one and two more years to compensate for this. I also noticed that you said that most people might want to quit earlier. I'm sure it is. However, if the whole of the Swedish people were to leave earlier, it would have the consequence that we would have even lower pensions. Otherwise, the equation doesn't add up. Or where are you going to get these pensions? We're getting older. It's fun, and it's good. It's good for a society. We have been two years older in life expectancy since the early 1990s. However, this also means that the pension will be divided into several years. You're saying the premium pension should be removed. What you also say then is that you take this pension from our children and grandchildren. That's the truth. These percentages are taken from our children and grandchildren, because they benefit from the premium pension.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-794	Mr President, I would like to The Left Party doesn't believe in Santa Claus either. But we want to look into this possibility, because we can see that pensions are in a bad way. This is a class issue. It's about people like me and others with academic professions who want to work for quite some time while others can't work anymore because they're worn out. It has also left a mark on their pension opportunities – how much they can get. We have many poor pensioners in Sweden, specifically women. That's it. When I say that the orange envelope is a joke, I mean that every year many of my acquaintances look in the envelope and see how long they're going to work. Unfortunately, it keeps increasing quite juicyly. That's the joke. This also means that people who have stimulating jobs and who are academics and think it's fun to work can work on a little longer, while others can't do it because their bodies simply run out. Then they sit there with 52 percent of their income instead of 62 percent as they were promised, as I said. This retirement thing is a pretty serious story, we think. We want to investigate this. If you look at the Swedish economy right now you can see that it is going very well. One can also look at how inequality has increased in society. For example, we have had many billionaires. You might think it's great, or maybe you can think about if the gaps have not become a little bit, a little too big in Sweden for the good of the country.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-797	Mr President, I would like to I thought I'd get into the work environment first. Karin Rågsjö raised this point on several points. The working environment is a very important part; I agree with you. However, it is not so simple that it is only nurses or people who have a high physical strain that they cannot cope with up to 65 years of age. Do not forget that the retirement age was 67 up to 1976. It has turned out that it is not always the people who have the greatest physical effort who get hurt. Rather, it is often a matter of monotonous tasks. In modern times, it is also often a matter of entering the wall, as it is called, or psychological factors. That's the big part today. We need to get to grips with the work environment, but it's not so simple that it's just about nurses and carpenters, as you said. It is much wider than that, and we need to look at the working environment considerably further. If we are to do this, we must ensure that those who now have the opportunity to work past 65 years must also be able to do so. It's good for society, it's good for themselves and it's good for the Swedish economy and the people who don't have the energy right up to 65 – plus we get our young people to enter the labour market earlier. Even if it's like you say that some people don't get permanent jobs and so on, every year do a lot for those who are going to get a pension 30 – 40 years later.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-801	Mr President, I would like to When it comes to the working environment, Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng is quite right, because it may also be because, for example, you have been bullied at work or have monotonous tasks. Being a teacher today is not easy. I don't think I'd be able to do it myself. Honors those who can do it. There are, of course, different groups, but specifically those who have heavy physical work, such as construction workers or those who have a stressful job in health care, because it is difficult to compensate. You say the young are going into the labour market quickly. Most young people probably try to get into the labour market, and it looks different today. Not all employment relationships are at their peak, so to speak. You get called in or a text message, and too few people make sure they have an occupational pension. Much is based on taking care of your own pension. You need to save at least one thousand a month to survive when you are type 65, but you also need to make sure to have a good employer who pays occupational pension. It's very much based on you advising your own pension. The information on how the pension system is constructed and what one should think about is not at its best either, I have to say.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-803	Mr President, I would like to PPM is the only part of our pension system that we have to take responsibility for placing. In fact, we are allowed to do so with occupational pensions too, but that is not something that we notice. But the premium pension is, of course, our own responsibility. Are you saying from the Left Party that it is wrong for us to take responsibility for 2.5% of what we set aside for our pensions? We in the Pensions Group have recently changed this with the balancing that we heard you had comments on. In the premium pension, we have made some changes that have meant that it does not have to cost us as much to change fund managers. You were talking about poverty pensioners. Who are they? Well, they're people who haven't worked. It is women who have been housewives who are poor pensioners. If you have worked some part of life you also have some kind of occupational pension. Where would the contributions come from to all those who would need a higher pension? And how are we going to manage our pension system if the way we manage it today is not good? I must also ask: how many new billionaires have we got in Sweden? It is certainly not a plethora.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-807	Mr President, I would like to As far as the billionaires are concerned, they have increased. That is absolutely the case. You can ask why. As far as the PPM system is concerned, we have a reservation in which we want to put this 2.5% in the income pension instead. We also want an investigation that looks at what has happened to the 2.5%. Then I think that one should also look at the great growth of fund companies. It is not reasonable, I think, that 25 billion – i.e. an entire child benefit year – have gone to fund managers. For every transfer of your funds, someone sits and cashes in for it, whether it's this 2.5 percent that may sound a little bit. In the case of poor pensioners, I had an example of a nurse who has worked for 40 years and with both an occupational pension and other pension benefits 10 500 SEK, I think it was. It's a poor pensioner. There are many women who have worked and worked for years and who end up at a very low pension level, and it hits hard.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-810	Mr President, I would like to It is extremely interesting to listen to this. If we allocate our premium pension money to income pensions, who will receive higher pensions? It is not the poor pensioners, it is they who have an income pension. Those who are so-called poor pensioners today are those who have not worked. I think the Left Party bit its tongue a little bit. We have, in fact, limited the fact that high profits can be made when you are a fund manager. It was a couple of years ago that we redesigned the system so that you can't take so much profit out of it. So I think that the Left Party should read a little more. When it comes to the premium pension, you do not have to choose for yourself, but there are others who choose for you, that is, the state. Those who do this have not directly lost from being inactive, but they are the ones who have received the highest return on their pension money. So it has not been wrong. If you don't want to be active, you don't have to be active. It does not cost a penny to be inactive, but you get quite a lot out of it. Is that good or bad? In my world, it's important to understand where money comes from. Money doesn't come from heaven. I have to help me get money by working or saving. But the Left Party apparently thinks it's wrong to be active and see where the money comes from. If it's become ten billionaires, I don't think it's an enormous amount.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-815	Mr President, I would like to We may have a billionaire debate another time, but there are many of them, I can tell you that. This retirement thing is interesting. You're saying this thing with the 25 billion to fund managers is old and no longer exists. But one of Svenska Dagbladet's best financial journalists wrote about this last spring, and 25 billion goes to fund fees. Of course, it has paid off to take care of funds and work at a bank for the last ten years, it is not a question of that. It's not just women who've been hit by this. Of course, there is something strange about the income pension and this whole package. An industrial worker today receives 52 percent of his final salary instead of promised 62 percent. Then something has happened in the system. Anyone who has a pension and follows the evolution of the orange envelope year after year will notice that this is not always at its peak. Something has happened in the system, and it has struck very different. That's why we want an investigation into these issues. We want to see the process. We are not part of the Pensions Group, and there is a heavy responsibility on you who make it follow the development of those women who do not make it on their pension and become poor pensioners even though they have worked a full career, to follow the development of those industrial workers who have done exactly the same thing and to follow all the young people who are now going to work. We must look forward to 50 years in time to ensure that those who are 30 years old today also have something to live on in the future. One should sit down and look at all these parts to get it together, because something is not on top of this system. Something's shaking.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-820	Mr President, I would like to The issue of men's and women's pensions is important. However, I would like to remind you that the ATP system was very unfair to women in the low-wage sector who had a low level of pension development. I was a member of the Pensions Task Force. My secretary had started working at the age of 16 and had an equal salary over his life. We found that she had paid much more money into the pension system than I did. I had attended research grants and did not start paying in until I was over 30. But I got a much higher pension than she did. I confirmed that we were changing pension systems. But the analyses we are doing now are important. It is obvious that women's pension is about 70 – 72% of men's. I call for some constructive proposals from the Left Party, proposals that do not affect jobs because of tax increases that mean that we lose jobs in the long term. What concrete proposals does the Left Party have? Let's hear it!
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-824	Mr President, I would like to Absolutely, Barbro! We can start by starting an investigation where we also get to sit. We parties that are not part of this do not have access to the same flow of fantastic information that you in the Pensions Group have. We'll have to do it our own little way instead. So that would be a good solution. Something must be done about the system, so that it becomes sustainable. It is also dangerous to say that we had a better system a long time ago, in the 1990s, so we go back to that. Perhaps we should look at what we are going to do now, today 2015. It feels more topical. You can never back up the tape all the way. It's important. As far as pensions are concerned, it is exactly as you say; it is very different. Today, it is the whole income of life that brings together the whole. It is not peaks and valleys where you choose to take the best years. However, it is something that has led to specific women being affected, possibly by the previous system, but also by this system. It is not reasonable for present-day female pensioners to receive an average of 65% of men's pensions. Something has to be done. It's not just about sharing parental insurance. We are absolutely in favour of a more equal approach. But it's about other things too. Today, many women between 50 and 60 and up to 65 can describe a situation in which they have a very difficult financial situation. That's it. You're almost dependent on a man today. It's boring. You can depend on love, but you shouldn't have to depend on a man to make it financially.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-830	Mr President, I would like to It is also about the situations of different generations. For younger people, it is about education, career ladders and sharing parental leave. I would like to hear a little about the Left Party's views on career ladders and education. It is also about the generation that cannot affect its pension today. I will get a little more into that issue in my speech. There are two sides. One is the pension itself. But it is also about the expenditure side. Does the Left Party have any thoughts on the expenditure side? What do you think about dental care and other expenses that year-rich people have?
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-833	Mr President, I would like to When it comes to education, be vigilant on all those who have not continued to high school. It's a pretty big gang, sometimes up to 20 to 30 percent. During the last government's eight years, they increased disastrously. It is a bunch of young people, both women and men, who will have very bad pensions if you do not ensure that they come to education and work. It is, of course, extremely important to have an education. But then there must also be a society that benefits education, with primary school, secondary school, university and so on. When it comes to women who are unable to influence their pension today, you came into other matters, Barbro Westerholm. I'm going to discuss the approach to dentistry next Monday, not now. It is still a matter of the Pensions Group not having looked at the women properly. These are the ones I have tried to highlight during the debate here today. There's a little too many of them having it a little too rough. We're on a sloping plane. If half of the women have a pension that is 65% of men's, they have gone completely wrong. This has created a kind of poverty proletariat for pensioners. It's hitting me extremely hard. It also hits the mental health of female pensioners hard. It's hard having a bad economy. It is hard to know that you have to move from your apartment, which is already a one, to another municipality where you can get lower rent, for example. This is a question specifically about women, specifically about class and specifically about what you have in your luggage.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-839	Mr President, I would like to The Liberals' budget bill is very tight. Even if Sweden is doing well right now, we see that we have a lot of expenditure ahead of us. It is about all the people who come from other countries and we must give a good start to life here in Sweden. We also have increasing sickness rates. That is why we have proposed a lower spending ceiling and higher financial savings in our budget. We invest in jobs, jobs and jobs. We do this in order to obtain funds, not least for our welfare systems. We invest in knowledge at school to give both boys and girls a good start in life – we have just discussed the women. We also have a commitment to the defense. With regard to the group we are discussing today, we want to increase the housing allowance from 95 % to 96 %, because it is accurate. By increasing the guarantee pension, we will, as Mr Zander said, come very close to the limit to those with the lowest pension. We also want to increase support for older people. Otherwise, the social services, which are under heavy pressure today, will have additional matters. Our draft budget is a whole. It has fallen into a previous vote. That is why we will not be taking part in that part of the vote on Wednesday morning. I'm proud of the new pension system. Other countries envy us for introducing a new pension system. Other countries have taken a toll on it. When they have tried to touch a little in their pension systems, it has been met with big strikes and such. There are appalling examples of countries that cannot afford to pay for their pension systems. We have. It's financially stable. For the individual, however, it is not quite financially stable, as it is based on increasing pensions if Sweden is doing well – there will be an increase now – but if things go badly, the brake will hit. The pension group has worked to even out those fluctuations. That's good. It is also very good that the pension group is dealing with other problems that have been highlighted here in the debate, not least women's pensions that we discussed just now. The current generation is small compared to the younger generation in education and the year-long generation who have retired. I hope that the Minister for Social Security will get into this with an increase in the age limit for the right to remain in employment. After all, the 20th century was marked by working less, shorter working days, shorter working weeks and longer holidays. In the 1970s, the so-called retirement age was reduced from 67 to 65 years. It was not asked how people really wanted it. When do they want to retire? We actually asked that when I was in charge of the National Board of Health and Welfare. We published a report in 1981 that contained what we found, namely, that many people felt bad about compulsory retirement. They wanted to stay in work for a while longer. They wanted to choose the scope themselves and gradually scale down. We proposed in 1981 that those who wanted and could work at least until the 70th or possibly the 75th anniversary. The outside world thought this was as crazy as the fact that the National Board of Health and Welfare recommended six to eight slices of bread, if anyone remembers it. I don't think many of you remember that, but for those who remember, there was a gleaming of ridicule. It was only about the year 2000 that the question of getting to work higher up the age group came with increasing strength. Now the study Longer lives, longer working life has proposed an increase in the age that one has the right to remain in the working life. I can't believe this is gonna be so hard. After all, it is no compulsion to work up to 69 years. But those who want and can should be able to. Now more and more people are continuing after they are 67 years of age. This is true of shortage professions such as nurses, doctors, and teachers. What they miss out on is that there is no right to work after 67 years. Training is important in these professions. What they also miss out on are certain insurance policies that employers have, and this is particularly important in health care. I hope to hear from the Minister for Social Security more about removing the obstacles that are in the way and how we are going to put an end to the myths about the value of year-long labour. Björn von Sydow and I have caved in this with the importance of life experience in working life. It turns out that year-rich people compared to younger people are better at complex problem solving. It is important in working life that you have that ability. Younger people are good at making quick decisions within their niches.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-853	Madam President, I would like Mr Barbro has such clear priorities. You talk a lot about everyone being able to work almost forever. If you look at who it is that works after 65 years, it is usually highly educated men. They are the ones who want to continue to work to a very large extent. Then you can think about the priority ring that you do in the Liberals, unlike looking at all women who, after 40 years in their profession, do not reach a reasonable pension. I nag with a fool's stubbornness about the nurse who after 40 years in the profession receives a general pension of SEK 11 500 plus occupational pension. After tax, she gets SEK 10 150 left, and it is below the poverty threshold set by the EU at SEK 10 800. That is a clear priority in Liberal policy. You want to prioritise the men who want to work up to 74 years. There's not that many of them. They make up 10 per cent of men between the ages of 66 and 74 who want to continue working – that's a philosophical idea, but I won't do that here – while it's 4 per cent of the women. A clear priority is given to a few people. It is clear that you should be allowed to work as long as possible, but the important thing for me is that the people who have been in work and women should receive a reasonable pension. I think that's important.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-857	Madam President, I would like Who are those who work high up in their ages? They're people in liberal professions. They are journalists, writers, musicians, actors and small businessmen. There are both men and women here. The professions that are now growing are doctors, teachers and nurses. I think we should acknowledge those who want and can continue to work and pay taxes. We're going to embrace those who have retired and who I met in the SPF Seniors. They start their own businesses and hire people. They're creating jobs. Of course, I agree that more women should have the opportunity to do this. But we should not prevent those who want and can continue to work high up in their ages. Within the free enterprise side, there are a lot of people who have relatively low wages. The city theatre is not a high-wage workplace. But it's great that Meta Velander and Yvonne Lombard continue to work. Meta Velander is now 92 years old, and she continues to play theatre genuinely because she plays the age she really has. Don't say no to opening up to everyone. This also applies to the public sector, because that is where the problems lie today.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-862	Madam President, I would like I know a lot of theatre people, artists and journalists. As you say, they choose to remain in work because they have had rather low entry wages and worked as freelance. Freelance as a journalist or freelance actor means that you have to work quite hard to get a reasonable pension. That's why they want to keep working, and then they also think it's fun to work in the liberal professions. If in one of the scales you agree that people should be able to work further in the other balance, you must have a focus on those who are completely worn out and are unable to continue working. It is specifically women who have been hit pretty hard by the low pensions. It cannot be reasonable for a woman in general to have 65% of the men's pension. After all, it contributes to a lock-in in gender roles, and it also contributes to the fact that a great many women who live long and survive their husbands become, in reality, poor pensioners. I worry more about them than the people who want to work up to 74 years.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-864	Madam President, I would like It seems that the Left Party did not notice that the Liberals in the 2014 election movement had a special focus on women's low pensions. We went out with proposals for division that then, in 2014, won the Parliament's approval. Investigating this is not done in a hurry. These are tricky things. You can go into occupational pensions, and people have switched from one place of work to another. There are different agreements and so on. It's not completely hassle-free. If such a system is to be amended, proper impact assessments shall have been carried out. You should see who's the winner and who's the loser. One should not impair some, but improve for those who have a bad situation.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-866	Madam President, I would like A welfare society can be assessed to a large extent on the basis of criteria such as respect, exploitation and care for the older generation. From this point of view, it is an urgent objective of the Christian Democrats to build a society where everyone can age in security, as well as with dignity and independence. Older people should be able to live an active life and have influence in society and over their everyday lives. Today we are dealing with Category 11 of the budget, Economic security in the case of old age. Within this area of expenditure, our allocation for 2016 does not deviate from that of the Government. It should also be said that the Christian Democrats are part of the so-called Pensions Group and are behind the pension reform that came into force in 2003. This ensures the stability of the pension system and guarantees pensions. Despite this consensus, we Christian Democrats believe that there are several changes that should be made in order to safeguard the economic situation of the elderly. It is about strengthening both the individual's economy and the entire pension system by encouraging more people to work a little longer, and also about efforts aimed at the most deprived pensioners. Madam President, I would like It is crucial for the proper development of pensions that employment is increasing and that more people are working longer. On the other hand, anti-job and anti-growth policies are hitting pensions hard. As people live longer and longer, it is natural for many to also work higher up in their ages. Among other things, it is about pay but often also about that you enjoy your workplace and about the feeling that you can continue to make a valuable contribution. The Christian Democrats believe that the labour market needs to be adapted to allow more people to stay longer in working life. We therefore look with concern at the government's step-by-step raising of job thresholds, both by raising the cost of employing older people and by reducing incentives for work. When the Alliance took over government power in 2006, one of our first tax changes was to remove the special payroll tax for the elderly, which reduced the cost of hiring people over the age of 65. At the same time, an increased job tax credit was introduced for the same group. Together, these reforms made it cheaper to keep or recruit older people and more profitable for the elderly themselves to work some or a few years further. It was beneficial for the individual, for the pension system, for the welfare and for the economy as a whole. The Christian Democrats are opposed to the reintroduction of the special wage tax. Contrary to the path chosen by the government, we Christian Democrats want to further strengthen incentives for older people to work, by bringing forward the increased job tax deduction by one year, thus providing it for everyone aged 64 or over. In addition to the positive effect on income, we believe that this will make more people aware of the opportunity to continue working beyond the 65th anniversary. Madam President, I would like The Christian Democrats have long been the driving force for reducing taxes on pensioners. During the period 2006 – 2014 we in the Alliance Government implemented five reductions in the tax on pensions. Tax reductions of a similar scale have never been implemented before. This meant a real difference for many, not least for those with the lowest pensions. Together with our alliance colleagues, we also raised the housing allowance for pensioners on three occasions. These changes together mean that a guarantee pensioner today has about SEK 1,900 more in his wallet every month than was the case in 2006. On this road we want to continue. Secondly, in our budget motion, we propose a further reduction in the tax on pensions, and we consider it urgent to come back with more such proposals. On the one hand, we have said that the housing allowance for pensioners should also be given priority in future increases in financial support for the elderly. It is a accurate way of improving the situation of the most deprived pensioners. This concerns reservation 2 of the report. Madam President, I would like I would also like to say a few words about the other two reservations we have in this area of expenditure, both of which relate to the premium pension scheme. This is reservation 5, where we believe that the basic rule for spouses with joint children should be that the spouses' total annual earned premium pension should be automatically divided equally between them as long as they do not have children aged 12 or over. This would be an urgent improvement in equal opportunities in the pension system. We believe that the government should set up an inquiry into this as soon as possible. Furthermore, there is reservation 9, which stresses that the premium pension system must be safeguarded, but also that there is room for improvement of this system in terms of information to pension savers, management costs and the rules for those savers who do not make an active choice. Madam President, I would like On behalf of the Christian Democrats, we are in favour of reservation 5. For time winning, we refrain from seeking approval for the other reservations.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-883	Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal in the report. Let me then begin my speech on pensions and financial security in old age by backing the band, not necessarily to a specific time that has passed but to the time that always comes before retirement, that is, the time of working age. The vast majority of our income as pensioners is, as you know, dependent on us working and dedicating part of our salary to retirement and on us earning pension rights. Absence from the labour market can therefore have devastating consequences later in life – I am thinking of unemployment, sick leave and part-time work. It therefore has not only financial consequences for the day, but also for the future through the reduction of pensions. Nor is it only a problem for the person who is affected, but absence from the labour market is also an obstacle to our common growth and well-being. In other words, both the national economy and the individual's income are affected. Today we have an unemployment rate of almost 7%. Long-term unemployment has, after the financial crisis and over the years with the bourgeois government, stuck to a much too high level. The ambition may have been to reduce unemployment and have a tougher working line, but the result, as you know, was something else. We are pleased to see that unemployment is actually starting to fall and has fallen a bit, albeit from very high levels. I want to make it clear that there's a long way to go. That is also why the current government is taking much-needed measures, precisely to push down unemployment. I mention this because it is an important factor when we debate pensions and financial security for the elderly, as several speakers before me have mentioned. It is also important to recognise the robustness of the pension system as such. What affects, in particular, the economic situation of pensioners is the development of the labour market, where unemployment is by far the biggest villain. The more money that comes into the pension system from the employers, the more can be paid out in the form of pensions. But, Madam President, there are also, of course, parts of this that can affect the economic situation of pensioners. One example is the housing supplement, which is adapted to needs and which was raised as recently as a few months ago, as the government proposed already in the budget bill a year ago. The bourgeois parties, together with the Swedish Democrats, then voted down the proposal that had to make a comeback in the government's spring change budget, and consequently it entered into force now in September. At the same time, the old-age supply support for those who do not qualify for a full guarantee pension was also strengthened. I must admit that it is nevertheless a little special to debate Category 11, Economic security in the case of old age, because the large part of pensions, as has already been mentioned, is not within the framework of the state budget. Moreover, there are other factors affecting the financial situation of pensioners who may actually belong in other areas of government expenditure. A quick look at Category 11 may therefore give the impression that there will be little change for the country's pensioners next year. However, we know that this is not the case. If we look at the whole picture, we see that next year most of Sweden's pensioners will have more in their wallets. Pensions are listed by over 4%. That's a record amount. This is the biggest increase since the birth of today's pension system. In addition, for pensioners with the lowest income, the tax gap between pension and salary is entirely offset by the government's long-awaited reduction in pensioner's tax. I want to stay with this for a little while. I want to make it clear that pensions are deferred wages and should therefore be taxed equally as earned income. The fact that pensioners pay higher taxes is nothing but deeply unfair and something that we Social Democrats have been pointing out ever since that gap was introduced by the old bourgeois government – an injustice we Social Democrats want to remove. That is also why, in its first budget a year ago, the new government proposed a reduction in the pensioner's tax – once again, a much-needed reform for the country's pensioners, the bourgeois parties, together with the Swedish Democrats, voted against. But we are keen to remove the gap, and that is why we have returned with a first step-up. Madam President, I would like The Government also proposes further improvements intended for the elderly group, including a large investment aid for retirement homes, a knowledge-based approach in care and also increased staffing in care for the elderly. If we add the above-mentioned increase in the housing allowance for pensioners of nearly SEK 400 million, we are talking about reforms for just over SEK 4 billion. All in all, we note that the policy put forward by the Government to the Riksdag during its more than first year has undoubtedly been of a nature that provides greater basic security for the country's pensioners. Hopefully, it can also help to alleviate the pension anxiety of tomorrow's pensioners.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-898	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking Mrs Carvalho for her contribution. There were many important pieces she raised – important for Sweden and important for Sweden's pensioners. I was going to start with the fact that we have a joint retirement group. It is extremely important for Sweden and for a stability that many other countries are jealous of. I say this because sometimes there can be discussions about the pension system, and there are even parties in this House who would like to have a new pension system. But we should be extremely happy that we have this strength. There is great curiosity from other countries. Tomorrow there will be some delegates from South Korea who are very curious about how we have set up the pension system with its pros and cons. It is clear that there are disadvantages in our system too, especially that there would have been a greater strength in it. There are things that need to be done, and I was going to ask Teresa Carvalho a question, especially with regard to what she was thinking about us having to work longer if we are to maintain the level of pensions. If so, can she, together with her party, implement the retirement age investigation as soon as possible? This is an important part of ensuring that we can have a decent level of pension for future pensioners.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-902	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by saying that I share the view that the financing of welfare, as well as being able to pay out pensions in the future, will require us to work together for more hours. So far, we are in complete agreement. When the age of establishment in the labour market shifts, it is also highly relevant to review how we can ensure that more people can contribute more to working life. For some, not least in certain sectors and sectors, I can imagine that it is rather undramatic to think in terms of working up at a higher age. At the same time, it is much more urgent for others, not least in difficult occupations, to consider how to cope with the entire working life that is the norm today, that is to say, 65 years. This involves, among other things, working preventively, improving the quality of work environment. This is not least about something that we are going to debate on Wednesday in the committee in this House, that is to say, a functioning rehabilitation. So there are many parts to this, and I believe, as I said, that we are in complete agreement that we need to find more ways to enable more people to participate more widely in the world of work. However, it can not only be about a fixed age, but also about other things, and I have full confidence that the Pensions Group will land in wise opinions and common positions on these issues. I know the work is going on there.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-906	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by thanking you for your reply, because I believe that this is an extremely important decision. Then there are always reasons to try to shift decisions. It can be work environment here and there and so on. However, we still need to have a basis so that we can take this decision at least within this term of office. It is a very important decision for Sweden and for us to be able to maintain pensions for Sweden's pensioners. The next thing is what Mrs Carvalho mentioned about the tax on pensioners. We have talked many times about that you can ball numbers so that it sounds like the alliance government raised the tax compared to before. The truth is that we reduced the tax five times by a total of 16.45 billion. In 2006, when it was last a Social Democratic government, the tax on pensioners was actually 16.45 billion higher. I know you have a proposal to reduce tax to a certain level, but it does not apply to all pensioners, but to a particular group. Then you say that the rest will come later, because it is clear that the level of a tax reduction costs a lot. That, of course, is what is behind it. The second, which is also very fun to tell and I did so in my opening speech, is that the pension for the income pensioners will be increased next year. Sometimes we may do so in politics that we put something on the new government and say that they have done something, but that is not the case here, and it is important to say. It's a two-year shift, so it's about the fact that it's been good two years before. In addition, I can inform you that the turn of the year 2012/ 13 had an almost as large increase as it was due to the fact that it had gone well two years earlier– almost the same, it was just another tenth.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-911	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by commenting very briefly on the end, because I would like to comment in particular on the main issue of the pensioner's tax from Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng. I note that in the eight years of the alliance government, we had a historically fairly high unemployment rate, an unemployment rate which, of course, is not very favourable to pensions. I hope, however, that Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng somewhere can admit that 8% of unemployment was not a very good rating and that we can jointly welcome the fact that unemployment is actually falling. The government gives high priority to unemployment and takes several important measures to reduce unemployment through investment in infrastructure, education and much more. So to the pensioner's tax. It is exciting to hear Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng's reasoning. It does not matter how many tax cuts for pensioners you are talking about because there is still a fundamental difference, namely that you think there should be a difference between how much pensioners and those who work should pay in tax. It was the moderate-led government that introduced the gulf. It was the moderate-led government that introduced the penalty taxation for pensioners – if you want to put it that way. That is something that I and the Social Democrats think is wrong. That is why we are proposing a first step-up in pensioner tax. It is a job that we are happy to continue, because we think the tax is unfair. Pension is deferred salary and should be taxed in the same way as gainful employment.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-915	Madam President, I would like I shall begin by highlighting something that I think is crucial when discussing the pension system. Last year, Sifo carried out a survey on behalf of the Pension Agency, which showed that over a third of future pensioners found it difficult or very difficult to understand how the pension system worked. 68 percent also found it difficult to understand which choices would be best for their own future pensions. It is an important signal to us in Parliament who are responsible for the system to see what we can do to change this knowledge deficit. It is important to understand and be able to see what opportunities there are to influence your pension. It is important for those who have a long time left, for those who are already pensioners and for those who are approaching retirement. The challenge for the policy, the Pensions Authority and the Pensions Group is to make it easier to get a complete overview of their overall future pension. Therefore, the Pension Authority has also received an increased consumer mandate within the framework of its information assignment, and the Government has allocated additional funds to the Authority for the years 2014– 2017. We know that the Pensions Agency also works with target-specific information to reach all pension savers. That's good. Even today, a stable pension system requires maintenance in order to function optimally and maintain credibility. Within the framework of the work of the Pensions Group, a broad review of different parts of the pension system is under way. In particular, I would like to highlight a recent work on reviewing what affects the pension gap between women and men and what measures can be taken to achieve more equal pensions. Much of what affects which pension each may be determined by what happens before you retire, such as how much you work, salary levels, occupational pension etc. Although pensioners with the lowest incomes have achieved the highest percentage of income improvement, 13% since 2006 mentioned earlier in the debate, the fact remains that many pensioners have a hard time making ends meet. This applies mainly to those with guarantee pensions and old age support. I think it would be good to look at whether there is anything policy can do within the existing system. This government has reduced taxes on pensioners, as previous speakers have said, and this has happened without increasing the tax gap or raising the housing supplement. This benefits not least those with the lowest pensions, which is an important step in the right direction. But it is still important to see in the future if there are any additional knobs you can screw on at least a little both inside and outside the system. The pension system needs long-term sustainable funding. This is achieved, among other things, by maintaining hours worked in the national economy as a whole and preferably by increasing them. It is not in contradiction to a more flexible working life in order for people to be able to work for retirement. Demographic developments, with increased life expectancy and reduced ill-health in the elderly, allow more people to work longer, while at the same time there are occupational groups where many already find it difficult to continue working to 65 years. I note that, in their motion, the Moderates are talking about the possibility of a change in working life and that you have also intervened in favour of a conversion aid, which the Minister will answer this week. Previously, there was the possibility of a so-called free year. It is an initiative that the Green Party has been pursuing for a long time and which just gives the opportunity to change tracks in the middle of working life, receive compensation for it while someone else has the opportunity to enter the labour market or try a new job. Unfortunately, the bourgeois parties removed that possibility. When I listen to the social partners, they talk about the possibility of a transition period. It is not said to be a free year, but I see it as being very close in principle to such a solution – as is your proposal on conversion aid. Fredrik Reinfeldt liked his year of transition very much, we have read in the media. An increased retirement age will and will be discussed. The proposal of the retirement age inquiry is something to which we must relate. We must dare to look at the conditions and solutions that will also apply in the longer term and have a plan for the young people who are entering the labour market now and in the future. If no action is taken here, their general pension will be historically low. A review of the long-term financing of the pension system should also consider whether the current level of contributions is sufficient or whether it should be increased. It was in the early 1990s the fee was set at 18 1⁄2 per cent. Such an increase in contributions would be eliminated over many years, which means that it would not have to be so high and thus not so felt by the individual or the employer, depending on how the contribution is distributed. Nevertheless, it would have a relatively large impact on the individual's pension. An increase in the contribution may reduce the risk of pensions falling or not being associated with the development of prices and wages. It has been mentioned in the debate that a premium pension contribution would be transferred to the guarantee pension scheme. I can say that the Green Party has also considered this at one time, but many speakers, not least Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng, have said that it is not so successful for the foreseeable future. As previous speakers have noted, the premium pension scheme has paid a good price. Then it is not very reasonable and appropriate to do something about that system at any rate. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-928	Madam President, I would like Thank you for giving me the opportunity to come to Parliament and talk about this extremely important issue, namely how to ensure financial security for the elderly. These are really big questions. This is not just about the 2 million pensioners today, but also about 7 million future pensioners. This is an issue that concerns us all, old and young, to a great extent. I will also come back to the theme that several have been on here today: In Sweden we are getting older. We also remain increasingly healthy higher up in our ages. Life expectancy increases by about one year every decade or three hours a day. This is something that sometimes, when we talk about it, sounds like it's a little problematic. Of course it's not. This is something that we in this country have striven for through welfare reforms and by developing Sweden in the direction in which we have taken the country. So it is an asset, and it is something to be proud of. But, of course, we also had a situation where we retired more than a hundred years ago when we were 60 and life expectancy was 64. This means that you must not duck out of cowardice for questions that may not always be so popular and that may be perceived as a bit difficult. It is of course about how we can increase the number of hours worked in the Swedish economy and how we can stimulate more people to work longer. But we cannot duck for the other difficult part of this issue either, namely how we achieve a working life that is so sustainable that not only people in the liberal professions will be able to work longer, but that it will be an opportunity for anyone who wants to. It is about having a sustainable working life in many different aspects, not just physically and mentally. Everyone has the right to a job that is also stimulating. Many in this House have also considered the possibility of changing tracks during working life. Perhaps that is something that we in a modern labour market and in a modern working life need to ensure is possible for more and more people. The pension should enable a good life after working life so that all women and men have the right to retire to something and not just from something. In Sweden, we have one of the most stable pension systems in the world from a financial perspective. Our stability attracts interest and envy from the outside world. Like Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng, we are eagerly courted by colleagues from other countries who currently have unstable pension systems and are thinking about how to manage to pay out some pensions at all to an ageing population. Our system also has a clear link to work because it is subject to a fee and that each additional one-hundreds actually plays a role. The strong link between the pension system and the labour market and long-term stability gives our system its legitimacy, while at the same time promoting work, which is so important for all our welfare systems and also for the individual, de facto. We in the government attach great value to the stability of the pension system. For the government, it is also extremely important to safeguard the cross-block pension agreement on which our pension system is based. It is a force that contributes to the security of those who are or will be retired. It also means that the reforms we are making in the system are well reviewed, debated and discussed. Above all, this means that the changes made to the pension system have a parliamentary strength behind them, enabling them to be sustainable over time. This, too, is something that many in our world truly envy us and that is worth treating with respect and caution. I'd like to do a little flashback. The global financial crisis hit Sweden's pensioners hard. The pension brake hit, and many older people had to turn over every penny to make their everyday lives go together. At the same time – also through the provision of the bourgeois government – a system of comparatively higher taxes was created for pensioners with the explanation that it would get more people to work. Sweden's older people were then in a situation where pensions developed worse than before and they also had to pay higher taxes than those who had earned income. We think this is unfair, and we want to do something about it. Above all, Sweden's pensioners have found this very unfair. It is therefore particularly gratifying that 2016 will be a historically good year for Sweden's pensioners. With increased employment and good returns from the AP funds, income and supplementary pensions will increase by approximately 4.2 per cent next year. This is the largest real increase in income pensions since compliance indexation was introduced 13 years ago. We are now also taking a first step towards abolishing the pensioner's tax by reducing the tax so that pensioners do not pay higher taxes than employees under the age of 65 on income up to approximately SEK 120 000 per year. The tax is also reduced for those with pension income up to 240 000 per year. For a pensioner of 120 000 a year, this means a tax reduction of over SEK 3 000 in one year. In addition, we have strengthened the housing supplement. As has also been said here before, it is a compensation with very good accuracy, which is of great importance to the most economically vulnerable. As of 1 September this year, pensioners with the lowest margins after paying the rent received an improvement of about SEK 100 per year in the housing supplement when the compensation level was increased from 93 to 95 per cent of the housing cost. But the government wants to do more. It is also one of the reasons why we in the Government Office are reviewing the housing supplement in order to come up with any proposals for further changes after a thorough analysis. I would also like to take the opportunity, like many others in this House, to highlight an issue of great importance, namely the differences in pensions between women and men. As I mentioned earlier, the clear link between contributions and payments in the pension system is basically a strength. As many have said, we have a gender-neutral pension system, and that is a good thing. But one of the drawbacks is, of course, that the differences in working life are concentrated and accentuated when pensions are to be paid out. Therefore, women today have on average a pension of SEK 6,000 lower than men's per month. Of course, $1,000 a month is far too much. We can't turn a blind eye to that. The root of this injustice is the unequal work and private life that we still have in this country. The fact that women have lower wages, work more part-time, have higher sick leave and devote more time to children and relatives – or, as one might also put it, simply takes greater responsibility for children, homes and families – is reflected in pensions. There is no doubt that equal work is a priority for the government. It is important to invest in this area in the long term, and the government has already taken a number of measures to strengthen the situation of women in the labour market. We are now introducing a third month of parental insurance. We have commissioned Försäkringskassan to work towards a more equal take-out of parental leave. We also invest resources in investigating women's work environment, and earlier this autumn a broad package of measures was launched for increased health and reduced sick leave. It is aimed not least at those women who are much more likely to be on sick leave than men. In the context of the Pensions Group, before the summer we launched an ambitious joint project on equal pensions. We are now looking at seven sub-areas that are about taking heights to make long-term changes and, of course, looking at the situation as it is here and now for the women who retire. This work will be presented in the Pensions Group in the coming months, and I hope and look forward to taking the issues forward in dialogue with colleagues in the Pensions Group. Hopefully, we will be able to come up with a number of sensible proposals which in fact will allow us to take steps towards evening out the differences. In conclusion: 2016 will be a good year for Sweden's elderly, but of course we will have to continue to work constantly to improve the conditions for Sweden's elderly, not least for the female pensioners.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-957	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for the post! I would like to stress that I think the pension agreement is very important and feel a great responsibility for caring for it in such a way that we can always find agreements that will be long-term for both Sweden and pensioners. I feel very responsible for that. Annika mentioned many important truths. One was that if we are to have viable pensions on which to live in the future, we need to look at the possibility of working longer. This applies to those who can and who do not have a work environment that is completely impossible and where you oppose it. In 1913, 102 years ago, the retirement age was quite high, 67 years, while the average life expectancy was 58 years, if the figures for women and men were combined; the differences between them were great at that time. Now many were over 58 years old, but infant mortality and so on were high. If we are to have pensions on which to live so that we can have a decent life even when we retire, we must constantly look at the retirement age investigation. That brings me back to what was said earlier. We're throwing claims at each other a little bit. For example, Teresa Carvalho says that it is a penalty tax when the tax on pensioners is higher than that on employees. But do not forget that it is actually 16.46 billion lower than when the current opposition was in power in 2006. What do you call it? Is that a double penalty? You have to be courteous with words. Net is the most important thing. Tax reductions should be set against tax increases. Government parties have tax cuts, but they have even more tax increases. The net is negative for many pensioners.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-962	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng, for the post! Like Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng, I think that the question of how we achieve a more sustainable and longer working life should and should be high on the Pensions Group's agenda. After all, it is about how we ensure pensions for all in a longer perspective. I'll share that entrance. However, it is important to stress that, just as I did in my opening speech, we must ensure that everyone has the opportunity to work longer, that not least the women who work in the welfare professions and today in many cases do not manage all the way also have the opportunity to cope with the extra years in order to get an even better pension. There should be that possibility. There are many reasons why we need to work on health and safety at work in the sectors where many women work today. We see that they are not able to make it all the way to retirement, and that they are on sick leave to a much greater extent. That, of course, is not acceptable and needs to be done something about. We can talk about tax cuts here and there, but it is extremely important to emphasise that we do not think there should be a difference in the taxation of pensioners and employees because, as Mrs Carvalho said, pensions are deferred wages.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-965	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. That brings us to the really important point. I am not going to ask whether the Government is in favour or against trying to implement the proposal of the retirement age inquiry, for she has already talked about this. I am very pleased that we are going to try to implement it so that we can take in at least part of the retirement age investigation during the current term of office. I'm very happy about that. But what does the Government think about the time aspect? It is important that we do not push it too far into the future. Will we see a bill within a year, two years, three years? I think it is important to try to give a timeframe so that we can see it in the horizon. It would be dangerous to push it forward beyond the mandate limit in 2018. If, as everyone here is in favour of, we are to act on pensions on which we can live, we must do something and soon.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-967	Madam President, I would like Thank you for that post, Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng! What we now agree on in the Pensions Group is that it is one of the priority issues in the work of the Pensions Group. We have an ambitious plan for how we intend to address this issue. We are doing this on the basis that it is an important issue which affects all employees and that it is important that we hold talks, not least with the social partners, on these issues. We'll get to that as soon as we can. We agree that the talks must not take too much time. Then we have said that the issue should come back to the Pensions Group, and on the basis of that there is a further approach. It is clear that I, too, see that it would have been good if the issue could now take steps forward. We have been talking about it for a long time, but we must stress with all due care the importance of working environment issues and other issues on the table. Finally, I would like to emphasise something that I think is very important. I think it was Barbro Westerholm who touched it from the speaker's seat. She spoke about the labour market's view of the older labour force in Sweden. I usually say that we may have the most educated and competent older workforce in the world. In addition, they are quite healthy people. When you listen to the social partners, including those on the employers' side, it is sometimes striking that they are not more in favour of retaining the skilled workforce we have in the labour market, not least given that we will need every hand in the Swedish labour market.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-971	Madam President, I would like I am proud of the pension reform that Bo Könberg, the Liberals, Anna Hedborg and Ingela Thalén laid the foundations for. With regard to the tax on year-long people, we Liberals want to gradually reduce it further when we have money for it, but now we have chosen a tight budget in view of the expenditure that lies ahead. As far as fiscal inequality is concerned, I would like to give you a little history. It was the SPF Seniors who, when I was chairman, made a proposal to stimulate year-long people to continue working because we need their efforts in the world of work. We proposed, following the Dutch model, that pensioners should receive reduced tax if they continued to work. In the Netherlands, it was a huge reaction to it from the union, because it was unfair that younger people did not also get a tax cut. Here in Sweden we then came to introduce a tax reduction for both younger and year-rich, and thus the lead was loose, so to speak. That is where the problem arose, because then the difference between working and inactive pensioners was seen. You didn't see the benefits of the other. What I really want to talk about is how we break the myths that we cannot learn new things, that we cannot cope with new technologies and so on. What plans does the government have to kill these myths?
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-976	Madam President, I would like Thank you for that post, Barbro Westerholm. I'm glad you're addressing those questions. It's also part of the ension age investigation. It is pointed out as one of the obstacles to stimulating people who want and can work longer. Not least, it is about the vision of employers. Instead, they may be able to see that they want to keep the workforce in the future even today. We in the Pensions Group have a work that we have started. It is about how to achieve a longer working life. We are about to start talks with the social partners. This, of course, will be part of those talks. Why is there the view of older workers that they cannot keep it in the workplace further up in the years? It will be an issue that is involved in that work. This is about the way in which the planning looks just n u on that issue.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-979	Madam President, I would like In 2013, we received a broader law against age discrimination. Up to 800 complaints have now been received, of which three have been brought to justice. When I see in the register I find many reports that can be about handling. There are, of course, myths behind discriminatory treatment. I think it would be a simple matter to analyse the reports that have not led to anything because they have not been subject to judicial review. Old age, the negative view of older people, goes again a little everywhere. I experienced it the other night. I travel Arlanda Express quite often and have a discount card. I gave it to her to check the tickets. She looked at me and said, "Do you have a card like this?" If you are 82 years old you are not expected to have discount cards at Arlanda Express. Now I happen to have it, because I need it. This goes again. It's in the spinal cord of humans. That is why I believe that research is needed. What's behind this? What can we wrestle down? A simple thing like going through all the notifications at DO can give a small hint.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-983	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Barbro Westerholm, for helping us focus on the issue. Perhaps it was Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng who pointed out in one of his previous posts how many in the workforce there will have to go on every pensioner in the future and what it will look like if we do not manage to reverse the trend. Today, there are three people on each pensioner, and there will be two in 20 years if progress continues in this direction. It is not least that there should be an interest from both employers and society as a whole to ensure that people are able to work longer. But there is also a need for interest, not least from employers who employ and for real recognition that people will need to be kept much longer. I usually point out that the social partners, both trade unions and employers, have a huge responsibility here to be more creative in how to stimulate in different ways in recent years in the workplace so that people will be able to work longer and that one can not least take advantage of the skills involved. If you look at the Swedish Municipalities and County Councils, you can see that they have a new recruitment need of almost half a million new employees until 2025 or something similar. This means, of course, that they will need both to keep those who are working today and to hire all the new ones they can imagine. But it is also a question of harnessing the skills and experience of older employees in a much more creative way than today. We'll have to help each other with that opinion.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-987	Madam President, I would like Sweden is doing very well right now. It's fun. It's lower unemployment, and the money's ticking in from different directions. It is very good that we are moving towards a more equal society so that women do not have to sit in the trap. I was going to ask you, Annika Strandhäll, what to say to the women who receive the very low pension and who have now retired. This applies, for example, to the nurse with 40 years in the profession who after much if and but gets out 10 150 SEK when you add various small pensions here and there. She's below the poverty line. The women who are in such a bad situation and who are poor pensioners are already there. It's not a small group. To a very large extent, they have to radically change their lives in order to survive at all. I was thinking, what are you saying to them?
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-990	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Karin Rågsjö, for that speech. That is highly relevant. That is why this is one of the issues at the top of the agenda in the work of the Pensions Group at the moment. We have an ambitious work that is now under way. As I also tried to say in my opening speech, we are initially looking at seven different areas in the Pensions Group. These are measures that can be taken both in the short and long term. Incentives such as shared pension rights are something we are looking at. Let's look at the importance of part-time retirement. We are looking at the significance of occupational pensions for pensions. It's important to have with you. It is a matter for the social partners. It is about 30% that separates in pension if you look at the whole of the pension system. If you just look at occupational pensions, there is a 50% difference between women and men, which has to do with the construction there. It is also an important issue for us to highlight and point out politically. We are looking at the transfer of premium pension rights between spouses, which are used very little today, the importance of basic protection for equal pensions and the importance of survivors' pensions for equal pensions. To this we also have a review of the housing supplement currently under way in the Government Office. There are many elements to what we are looking at: what can I do in the short term, and what is also necessary to do in the longer term? Somewhere I am convinced that we must take the problem at the root. We cannot have as unequal a working and social life as we have today, which affects women in the way it does in terms of pensions, but also in many other respects.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-995	Madam President, I would like It is great that things are going on and that the women who now go to work may have a more equal life than their mothers and grandmothers. That's great. But the problem is that we already have a large group that is thinking about where they're going to pawn the bottles tomorrow, if you're going to be completely honest. It looks extremely bad for many economically. LO has been rather critical of the PPM reform that was carried out. It's a bit the same there. The existing un derfinanced income pension means that industrial workers today receive 52% of their final salary instead of the 62% they have been promised. Of course it'll break through. This is often a class issue. People with better finances may be able to set aside money for their pension in private and so on. The system is very much based on saving for yourself. If you haven't done that, it will punish you when you retire. Nevertheless, it is a large group of people, men and women within the LO collective, who get it very difficult. How do you expect to proceed with that?
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-999	Madam President, I would like First of all, it is not the case that we in the government are doing nothing for the most deprived pensioners right now. Among other things, we have begun to dismantle the so-called pensioner tax. We are now also making an adjustment to the housing supplement, which is very accurate, which will mean an improvement for these particular groups. When it comes to the premium pension, we have a seda n in September, I think, an investigation that is sitting and will be working over the coming year to review the premium pension scheme and some of the parts that might work less well, if you put it that way. With regard to both the premium pension system and the pension system as a whole, it has now been a number of years since we got the agreement in place. It is clear that we then see both positive things, which make us feel that this is good to stand on for the future as well as improvement areas. It is about equal pensions, for example, and the fact that we are now reviewing the premium pension system. Nor must you be afraid; there is probably no system that is absolutely perfect. The worst is, however, if you duck for the problems you see along the way. It is in everyone's interest that we ensure that future pensioners also receive a good pension and that it works well with premium pensions as well as the other parts of the pension system. This is also part of the agreement concluded by the Pensions Group in March 2014, which is now being implemented.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-1003	Madam President, I would like Today we have to deal with the Culture Committee's report No 1 on culture, the media, religious communities and leisure time. During the period in which the committee has dealt with the report, much has changed in the world around us. Much has causes far beyond the borders of the country but has also had major consequences within our borders. Our political dialogue has changed, and our discussion has taken a different direction. In the past, the debate has been about breaking barriers and opening borders. Borderlessness has been a word of honor. Now we are talking about raised walls, closed bridges and increased controls. It is not, as some would argue, to defend a narrow and subjective view of what is Sweden and Swedish culture against an indefinite and unclear enemy, but to be able to continue to take the responsibility that has characterized our country for so long. Humanitarian responsibility requires both control and capacity. When other policies aim to secure and control our borders, the limitlessness of culture and art becomes increasingly important. Reflection, understanding, respect, responsibility, empathy, recognition, consideration and insight are concepts that are often outside the usual debate but are essential for us to function as human beings. By directing the light to ourselves, we also get to know others. By challenging our performances and testing our own boundaries, art helps us to understand and relate to what is happening. Madam President, I would like With all this in mind, it was nevertheless with some disappointment that I took note of the government's draft budget. After the first messages about record efforts on culture, my first thought was to congratulate the Minister for Culture and Democracy on a successful negotiation. It is not always culture that stands only when limited resources are allocated. But then when I took note of how one actually wanted to distribute this so-called huge venture, I was surprised. In the field of culture, the government is adding 359 million more. But only a marginal part comes to cultural practitioners and creators. In principle, there are two main numbers: free admission at a limited number of state museums and an unclear investment of SEK 100 million on reduced fees to the cultural school. The most incomprehensible of the reforms is the one on free entry. 19 museums, 16 of which are located in the inner city of Stockholm, should to some extent – unclear which – be ordered to introduce free entrances at some or all exhibitions, unclear which ones. For this, the Government allocates SEK 80 million in compensation – a sum that has already been calculated as insufficient. Does the government really believe that this is the most prioritised initiative Kultursverige needs? Why choose a reform that strikes so wrong geographically? Who's supposed to get in for free, and for what? Where does the government think museums should take resources when the state compensation is insufficient? Is it from community care or from the exhibition? To travest the butts of Ronja Ronja's Rövardotter: Why does the government do this? When it comes to culture school, most things are obscured. If there are high fees you want, it is above all well-off suburban municipalities around our big cities that are affected. I can have views on the fee structure in these municipalities, but I do not think that this is something to be solved by pumping government money into those who already have. At the same time, a special investigator will develop proposals for a national strategy for the municipal school of culture and music, but they will not be ready until 30 September next year. Wouldn't it have been reasonable to first sort out what you want before spending $100 million on it? Again, why does the government do this? As far as film policy is concerned, it is the same. Glatt goes out and rips up a film deal, shock increases the VAT on cinema tickets, is forced to make unnecessary compensations and announces that there will be a government film policy here. But what this film policy should contain or how it should be designed has no idea. A promised bill in November December became a letter in January February that became a possible letter or perhaps a bill at the end of March. Wouldn't it have been reasonable to first come up with what you want before you hijack the faiths and push out toward unknown targets? Is it not reasonable to at least consider the consequences for Swedish film before unilaterally tearing up the foundations for its funding? Why does the government do this? In the area by area you increasingly get a feeling of a government that shoots from the hip and happily sends press releases, but promises candy bags without content. Unfortunately, that fish pond is not a success at the children's party. Culture and art deserve better answers than there is in the lake. On the moderate side, this year we are presenting a tighter cultural budget than the government does. We make a number of bets and enumerations, but we are still totally at a lower level. We are doing this simply because we do not share the priorities of the government that I mentioned earlier. We do not think it is reasonable to distort museum policy in the way the government wants, we do not think it reasonable to spend SEK 100 million on cultural school fees in Stockholm's well-to-do Kraut municipalities and we do not think it is reasonable to tear up film agreements without having any idea of either consequences or alternatives. We want to continue to build a modern cultural policy that both preserves the freedom and self-worth of culture and puts culture in a broader political context. During the eight years in power of the Alliance, culture was added to barely SEK 1 billion. This represents about a 2% increase a year, despite a deep economic crisis. This is quite unique in an international perspective in the years that have passed. However, cultural policy must not be reduced to becoming a competition for who gives the most in grants. Increased employers' contributions, which the government is pushing, are hitting culture and cultural industries. We say 'no' to this, as we say 'no' to the upsurges in biomimes, which are in danger of hitting hard both consumers and cinemas in sparsely populated areas. We do not share the government's line of scattering a little extra over some while pulling away the carpet for others. Finally, Madam President, the cultural policy of the future needs to be linked to issues of growth, the economy and employment, health and education. But it is also about the conditions for the creation of art. It is about the conditions of artists, but also about the climate in which artists should operate, about how we view our country and the values that should prevail here, about openness and freedom, about curiosity and discovery drive, about knowledge and about provocation, about boundaries that break down and about taboos that break down. Future cultural policy must build on these insights in the long term, and I hope for many good discussions and debates to come.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-1019	Madam President, I would like We have been able to note in recent months how the Moderates have undergone a rapid policy development in certain areas, at least on paper, and have taken a stance that is perhaps one of the most migratory-restricted in the Riksdag. At this point, of course, it is welcome. At the same time, we can note today that the Moderates have perhaps the lowest level of ambition of all parties in the cultural field, at least in terms of objectives and resources. As a large party, of course, one has a responsibility. The question arises: What do Olof Lavesson and the Moderates want with cultural policy? It was said that you do not share the government's priorities, but what do you want to see instead?
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-1021	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Emilsson for the question. Let me make one thing very clear. When it comes to what is now being introduced in the area of migration and why it is being done, there are many things that separate me and Aron Emilsson and that separate the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats. There is much more to distinguish than to unite. It is possible that something in the rhetoric can unite, according to what the Swedish Democrats hear, but when it comes to why we do things and how we do it, there is nothing in common at all. We are taking certain steps right now, as I said in my speech, to continue to take the responsibility that Sweden has always taken as a humanitarian state and to safeguard the openness and respect we have for the values, religion, origin and culture of different people. We do that for a temporary period. What Aron Emilsson and the Swedish Democrats want is to close the doors forever and say thank you but no thanks to people who come here. This is also what separates us when it comes to cultural policy. We look at Swedish culture in different ways. We see how Swedish culture throughout history has been built by people who have come here and worked here. It has been done for shorter periods and longer periods, and a future has been built here. That's how Sweden's cultural life has become strong, that's what Sweden's cultural heritage looks like and that's what tomorrow's cultural heritage looks like. Aron Emilsson and the Swedish Democrats are presenting an expansive cultural budget, but I have never been involved in spending so much money on something that should reach so few. I regret that you do not have a more open and inclusive perspective. There we differ enormously. As far as our priorities are concerned, I think I made them clear in my speech. I told you exactly what we want to do but also how we see it in a broader perspective. We believe that cultural policy must be seen in its context and that a society based on knowledge, education, the economy and growth also benefits culture.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-1026	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Olof Lavesson, for your answer! I realise that there is much to be done here. There is some misconception that the Swedish Democrats would like to close the door forever when it comes to migration policy. That, of course, is not true. We have always had and will always have immigration to Sweden to varying degrees. I'm going back to the cultural area. Olof Lavesson believes that we in the Swedish Democrats reach few with our broad efforts. We invest resources on goals, new tools, culture in health care, culture environment and competence, rich theatre, city and country, S cutting school in preschool and more. How does it reach few? If Olof Lavesson studies the Swedish Democrats' movement in the field of spending in culture, he can see clearly that our efforts are aimed partly at innovation in large parts of the cultural heritage area, and that is much needed and requested, and partly at parts of contemporary culture, if that's what you mean.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-1029	Madam President, I would like I don't know if you can call it a misconception. I have read the Swedish Democrats' proposals, and it says clearly, black and white, how you look at things there. I have been in parliamentary assemblies with Swedish democrats since 2002, and I have never heard a Swedish democrat say: Let's get more impressions into our country, think from a more multicultural perspective and see how we can broaden Swedish culture. I've never heard a Swedish democrat say that. This is something completely new. If it represents a change in policy, it is interesting and has happened here today. On the contrary, it has always been about how to protect Swedish culture from other impressions, as if all perspectives and influences from outside are something threatening and negative. As for this being a misconception, then, I cannot agree at all. It is the same with regard to the view of cultural heritage. I have read the Swedish Democrats' proposals in the field of cultural heritage. I am concerned when I meet politicians who want to define and lock up what is Sweden and what is Swedish culture and Swedish cultural heritage. I am proud of the values that characterise our country. Sweden should be a haven for openness, tolerance, freedom of expression and freedom of religion, one should be able to test the limits of the word and freedom of expression should prevail in all contexts. You should also be able to develop in the culture you come from or absorb new influences. This is very different between the policy of the Swedish Democrats and that of the Moderates. No, Aron Emilsson, that's not a misconception. It's crystal clear. Just read your suggestion and you can see it. Now it has been announced from the Minister for Culture that there will be a cultural heritage bill later. I'm looking forward to it, and we in the Moderates are looking forward to it. When it comes, we can have a longer discussion about the Swedish cultural heritage and how we fill it in the best way.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-1034	Madam President, I would like Olof Lavesson devoted a large part of, or rather the whole of, his speech to criticising the government's budget, which is also supported by the Left Party, and that no effort is made on cultural workers. Lavesson's rhetoric, I heard, caused a lot of shivering in the benches. The problem is that if you look at what the Moderates themselves think, you can see that they reduce by SEK 641 million in the field of culture. It doesn't really feel like they're investing in culture or cultural workers. There is a post where it is different from the government, and it is the religions that you spend 3 million on. Perhaps it is not precisely in the religions that one imagines that the cultural workers are. Overall, it's about cutbacks straight off. What is it that Lavesson himself wants? What will be the initiatives for the cultural workers? I can reassure Mr Lavesson that, with regard to the cultural school, the Left Party has been very careful that this should not benefit rich municipalities that may not have bothered to keep low fees for the cultural school before. We are doing this work now to get a good distribution of that money so that the municipalities that have gone a little ahead of the government in terms of reduced fees to the cultural school are not disadvantaged.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-1038	Madam President! Thank you for asking, Rossana Dinamarca! It is interesting how to count what are countdowns and what are enumerations, what are savings and what are cutbacks. I am used to having a budget discussion based on what you have this year and what next year's budget looks like. That's pretty reasonable. Then there are those who are betting more and those who are not betting that much. Compared to the current year's budget, our budget is also a list and a new effort. On the other hand, which is quite true, as I said in my speech, we have a much tighter budget than the Government has with the support of the Left Party. I have been in Parliament for nine years, and I have never been involved in setting a budget that is no tighter than that of the Left Party. When the Left Party puts forward its proposals, there are unlimited resources. I don't really know where to take all the money from. We've been asking questions about that for the last nine years. Now the party is in a position of responsibility where you act as a support patrol to the government, so it is a bit more difficult to use the same money machines that you have used before. When it comes to cultural school, it should not go to rich municipalities," says Rossana Dinamarca. That was a clear message, and I thank you for that. I will ask the Minister for Culture a little later if she sees it the same way. I wonder how to distribute the money. What have you agreed on in the negotiations? Should they go to the municipalities where the fee is lower or where the fee is higher? Or should they go to increased accessibility, skills development, outside coverage or any of the other things we have heard about in the debate? It's 100 million kroner anyway. In that case, the money goes to something completely different from what is said in the budget text, because it states that it should go to reduced fees and nothing else. 100 million is quite a lot of money. At the same time, there is an investigation that should not be completed until 30 September next year. How can you say yes to 100 million if they are not going to the municipalities where the fee is at the highest?
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-1042	Madam President, I would like I note that Mr Lavesson still avoids answering the question of what efforts the Moderates are making for the cultural workers whom he defended when he was in the speaker's seat before. How do the Moderates invest in culture? I didn't really understand the thing about talking about unlimited resources and money machines. The Left Party has decided on a proper budget with the government. I would have liked it to have been implemented already a year ago, but it was you who caused chaos, if you remember, even if you were not on the committee then. In answer to Lavesson's question – it might lead to him answering mine – it has been clear all along that the money should go to reduced fees for the cultural school. 100 million may be a lot of money, but in this context it is also important to use the money for what it is intended for. If they are to be spread out on all kinds of things, it could otherwise be quite a little money. As I said in the last line, we are currently looking at how the money is to be distributed. But it shouldn't be the way that rich municipalities that haven't bothered to keep their fees down before, now suddenly should be able to reduce their fees just to get this money. Nor should it be the case that the municipalities that have already gone ahead and reduced their fees should lose out on this money. It has been an important part of the Left Party.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-1046	Madam President, I would like Let us continue to agree on one thing on which we have previously been fairly agreed in this House, Rossana Dinamarca. It's about what caused chaos last year. It was hardly that the Moderates and the Alliance presented a draft budget and voted for their own policy. What caused chaos was that one party decided not to vote for its own politics but for someone else's politics. In any case, a government would be brought down. It created chaos in the Swedish parliament. It wasn't that the Alliance voted for its politics or Rossana Dinamarca voted for its. I don't know if Rossana Dinamarcas's answer to cultural schools was more of a question than an answer. Yes, the money should go where the fees are at the highest to harmonise it all and help the students who pay the highest fees. We can see that the fees are highest in the rich crane municipalities around our big cities. But I'm not gonna let them take part of the money. I can't get this together. Rossana Dinamarca says they're looking at it right now, and they're gonna figure it out, and they're gonna come up with rules and stuff for it. That is the problem in areas by area. You're supposed to watch, you're not done and you're not done thinking. But you shoot from the hip and put some money to make it look good. It won't hold. When it comes to what caused chaos last year, it could also be seen as that you actually got an extra year to prepare your policy. Shouldn't you have used that year a little better in that case to be able to come up with some more well-founded proposals?
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-1051	Madam President, I would like We are now in the middle of this year's cultural policy spending debate. It is a debate in which we can and should push and wet our starting points for Sweden's national cultural policy. I would like to start by calling for approval of the Swedish Democrats' reservation on new cultural policy objectives in the report. We also support our specific opinion in the report. Let's start with the targets, the compass. It is a compass that outlines the direction, determines the allocation of funds and priorities and navigates us towards a cultural policy worthy of the name. I shall begin by acknowledging that I am somewhat impressed with the commitment the majority of the committees want to strengthen Sweden's proposals for new cultural policy objectives. These are objectives that have been worked out and that would broaden, deepen and revitalize culture. In particular, they would raise the level of ambition from the state level. The other parties talk about entrenching when we broaden the mission, thinking new and cross-sectorally to incorporate cultural perspectives in more sectors of society. It won't hold. Accessibility, public health and cultural heritage involvement must be emphasised, and the tools and resources must be put behind words. SD's cultural policy objectives are based on opportunities and needs in Kultursverige. Everything that is depends on what has been before. The more people who previously understand the value of cultural cultivation and its interaction with the past, the better it is. It is particularly important for politicians who, in unbridled optimism of progress and theory of development, do not understand the value of the cultural heritage, the foundation we are taking away from the future. Without a rear-view mirror, you don't navigate safely forward. Both the government, which has certainly put words but not the tools and will behind the cultural heritage yet, as well as the Alliance, which too long had too little ambition for too much of the cultural heritage forms, are due answers. I usually talk about when I'm out lecturing, as well as parts of the profession, that no group and no society, especially no democracy, can function without a common world of ideas rooted in the group's past. You should be welcome to it. But the core of and respect for Swedish cultural heritage is central, whether it concerns values and customs or remains and artifacts. It is borne by many, especially civil society, but it deserves political will and support. We have strong proposals and are launching further proposals for cultural environment management, cultural environmental competence in the country's municipalities and for research and development in the field of cultural heritage. We also eagerly await the government's tools, means and objectives for the forms of cultural heritage in the announced bill. Both the government and the Alliance have much to prove to Kultursverige. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats continue to deliver breadth and depth in the cultural policy palette, even this year. Good idea development, hard work and good officials, along with reports from Kultursverige, ensure sound proposals. It is a work that continues. In addition to what could be called the VVV – to care for, protect and demonstrate the cultural heritage – our investments in the field of spending are distributed to actions aimed at making culture accessible to children and young people, disabled people and the elderly. In addition, outdoor life adds substantial funding increases, and sport is provided with funds for permanent elite investment and for special sports for the elderly. We are also giving sport increased funding as a result of a price and salary recalculation. Furthermore, we believe that it is important for culture to reach the citizens and therefore support initiatives aimed at allocating culture somewhat less centralised and more regionally and locally. At the same time, it is important – we also show in our field of expenditure exercise – that the state can take a great responsibility for tools, frameworks and funding. Culture is not just a central building block of our society or of our national identity, which actually exists. It is also a valuable component of each individual's life. Creating and enjoying cultural experiences contributes to personal development and enhances quality of life. The Swedish democrats see it as self-evident that this opportunity should exist for man throughout his life, from creative preschool to creative care for the elderly. We therefore welcome the fact that the government and now alliance parties are beginning to adopt the idea of creating school in preschool too, not just in preschool class. I'm glad to hear that. We strive for a broad and vibrant Swedish culture and cultural policy where children's, elderly and disabled people's right to culture is taken into account from cradle to grave, but also from city to country. Madam President, I would like Finally, let me mention a few of our new changes. The National Archives will be added to our funding frameworks an additional SEK 2 million to compensate for the larger administrative work that comes with the new legislation on public documents. We also create opportunities for municipalities to strengthen their antiquities and cultural environmental competence. It is much needed, following alarm reports of lack of understanding and commitment to the management of cultural environments.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-1066	Madam President, I would like We need culture to live. Culture has its own value. A cultural life where everyone is welcome and can participate is an important force for a society that stays together in the long term. For me and the Center Party, it is therefore important that culture is available. Civil society is an essential part of Sweden's cultural life. Civil society is also often quickly in place when there is a need for organised cooperation between people. Not least the current situation in the outside world, which allows many people to seek protection here, has demonstrated the power of civil society. Within the Center Party we think it is important to always look after the individual, whether or not that person will probably be allowed to stay in Sweden. We want the individual to develop with the support of, among other things, peoples' education. It's about human education, not just education. Part of the appropriations for civil society is in the Center Party budget under Category 13 Gender equality and the establishment of newly arrived immigrants. There, the Center Party adds SEK 300 million per year in its budget exercise in 2016 – 2019 to promote civil society integration efforts. I would like to make this clear as the Center Party's budget for the Committee on Culture may otherwise seem misleading. The Center Party wants to clarify and strengthen the specificity and importance of civil society. We want to draw attention to the important efforts of civil society and create more reasonable regulatory frameworks. We want to improve the opportunities for civil society to contribute to integration and greater participation in society. An important part of this is that there are meeting places for these meetings and events. That is why we want to invest additional resources in support of assembly facilities. At the same time, the attractiveness of Sweden as a nation and all parts of the country is an important question for the future. Culture with both lace and width is important, for example, as a localisation factor. Increased interaction on cultural issues between politics, business and committed enthusiasts creates increased conditions for jobs, local and regional development, attractiveness and tourism, knowledge development and new export successes. But it also creates a lot of conditions for integration, participation in society and increased understanding and tolerance between people. And we do not know what new cultural expressions will arise. An open public approach is therefore needed so that, for example, young people's activities on the Internet can be supported. Culture is an important part of our society. Culture has its own value, but we can see that it also contributes so much more. Madam President, I would like The left-wing government with social democrats and environmentalists gives their cultural budget to adults in Stockholm by introducing free admission to state museums while announcing a sharp increase in VAT on the cinema ticket. Today we have free admission for children and young people to all exhibitions of state museums. It's a beslut from the alliance government. On the other hand, the free ‐ admission reform proposed by the left-wing government is for the most part an initiative for adults in big cities and will mainly apply to the permanent exhibitions of state museums. At the same time, the government also wants to raise VAT on the cinema ticket – a proposal that hits hard on the country cinema and film-interested young people. The film is one of the most democratic cultural expressions. It wants to give the left-wing government a much higher VAT rate than any other culture. Isn't the movie pretty enough? Or what is the government trying to say? No, we in the Center Party have a completely different focus on our politics. We invest in culture throughout the country with a focus on children and young people. The Alliance government implemented a cultural cooperation model and S hijacking school. There were clear center proposals with a clear focus on the whole country and children and young people. We have a cultural policy where we see the whole country. That is why we also want to see a model of cultural cooperation for the whole country where regions, in collaboration with the national level, develop a national cultural plan. And we also want the state cultural institutions to be more accessible to the whole country, and not just in the big city. Madam President, I would like I would also like to take the opportunity to bring up Creative School, which is run from a Center Party movement, where all students in a class get to experience and participate in cultural creation under the leadership of professional cultural workers. Creating school is an important contribution to children's and young people's ability to communicate with culture but also their ability to practice culture. Being able to take part in, but perhaps even more to practice, culture brings an incredible amount back. But it is not just the cultural creation itself that develops. Whether it is writing, painting, dancing, playing music or any other cultural expression, the individual develops in many ways. Developing one's talent in a cultural activity strengthens the child's faith in himself and understanding of others. Evaluations of the Creative School also show how children's and young people's participation and influence develop when culture takes place in school. It contributes to an improved climate of cooperation in schools, and the students' self-esteem and self-confidence are strengthened. An important aspect of Creative School is also that it broadens the labour market for professional cultural workers, while giving these cultural creators an opportunity to develop their artistry as well as an opportunity for income. The encounter between the students and the professional culture creator, who might not otherwise end up in this meeting, is a core of the Creative School – a meeting that takes place during class time. Creative school is a unique initiative that must continue to live and develop under its own conditions. The next natural step should have been that also high school had been given access to Creative School. Creating school should also not be confused with the equally important municipal school of culture, where municipal self-government and the student's voluntary creation are two pillars. Cultural school activities are different in the country's municipalities. The money that the government now spends on reduced school fees will mainly end up with urban and well-off municipalities. Madam President, I would like We need culture to live. Culture has its own value. A cultural life where everyone is welcome and can participate is an important force for a society that stays together in the long term. With that, Madam President, I would like to refer to the special opinion of the Centre Party.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-1082	Madam President, I would like We live in a difficult time! Sometimes it even feels like we are living in a comfortless time. But: Victory at all costs, victory despite all terror, victory no matter how long the road goes, for without victory there is no survival. That is how Winston Churchill described what was the way in another very difficult time three quarters of a century ago. Sver ige should be open, welcoming and interested in the outside world and seek both inward and outward. This is particularly important in the field of culture, where international impulses have always been crucial. Transparency and diversity are crucial for our country's prosperity and for our creativity and cultural power. What we know today as Swedish cultural heritage has been created in an intimate conversation and exchange with the outside world. Attractive conditions for the establishment and maintenance of artistic environments at a high international level must be maintained and created. Today's culture, tomorrow's cultural heritage, is being created today, now. It is created in the melting pot of creativity – the same melting pot that formed Winston Churchill's quote that I started with. It now shapes what we are all shaped of, namely our common society, our common future. Sweden needs a cultural policy for all people, for the whole country. We Liberals want the conditions to be created for cultural experiences of the highest quality and to stimulate their own participation and creation everywhere. It is time to combine cultural policy with rural policy. This will create real conditions for development throughout the country. The cultural cooperation model plays a key role in this. The model needs to be developed and financially strengthened to further strengthen the regional and local perspective. Madam President, I would like On point by point, the government now shows that it is seeking a centralised and increasingly concentrated culture for parts of the country alone. A very clear example of this is the reform that has already been mentioned here with free entrances to state museums. Liberals, of course, welcome those museums that want to offer free admission as a way to increase people's access to cultural heritage, but it should be up to each museum to decide whether and how. In addition, the Government's initiative covers only certain parts of the central museums. We want to add SEK 15 million more than the government and design the grant entry as a searchable grant, available for all museums and exhibitions that take part in state aid, and for county and regional museums. Another example of something that can only be interpreted as centralist politics is the rejection of local and regional cultural scenes. The economic problems of these places and institutions have become increasingly acute. In particular, high overheads for staff and rents caused by negative decisions on employers' contributions, VAT rates and tax charges are affecting the finances of the institutions. The cultural gems currently run locally, regionally or entirely privately are too important to risk being knocked out and disappearing because the economy does not exist. We Liberals are therefore proposing an initiative on the local and regional scenes to be seen as a first step towards a renewed liberal cultural policy for the whole country. Further proposals with centralist elements and views are the maximum rate at the cultural and music school. Liberals, of course, welcome low fees. But it's a municipal matter, not a government pointer. We therefore reject the government's increase of SEK 100 million in expenditure in this area. It is possible to use that money much better. Finally, Madam President, I have to talk about film and cinema policy. The film agreement has served Swedish film well, but at the same time the difficulties show that something quite different is now needed, something new. It needs to be replaced. The current film agreement only applies in 2016. Time passes quickly, and more time is needed for council rooms that could create broad, sustainable and well-thought-out agreements on a new film policy. It is unfortunate that the government seems to have unilaterally locked itself into a financing model and a short timeframe. We therefore reject the proposed funding, support for certain rural cinemas, VAT increases on cinema visits and funds for the conversion of cinema policy and other things on which there is still no consensus. Madam President, I would like The Liberals' draft budget is a whole that has fallen into the previous vote on the financial framework. In line with this, we are abstaining in the forthcoming vote on Category 17. Madam President, I would like I started with a quote by Winston Churchill. I shall also conclude with one that I think is appropriate for the government and partly for this debate, so far: Victory's problems are more pleasant than those of defeat, but they are no less difficult.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-1094	Madam President, I would like It's wonderful to have some winged words this evening. There are good grounds for accusing several alliance parties of a lack of vision and, in particular, resources behind the words. Unfortunately, the Liberals belong there, with a few exceptions. I would really like to begin by congratulating Bengt Eliasson and the Liberals for having been able to take on board, draw inspiration from and also nose on a model similar to our reform of open museums. In fact, in this year's exercise there is a very similar reform. It is of course very pleasing for Kultursverige and for Swedish museums. At the same time, we see that the Liberals are proposing a substantial reduction in funding for the cultural area as a whole. Unfortunately, it shows that the party that once stood for the education system no longer gives priority to culture and education at national level. What is the Liberals' cultural policy vision, and what are the tools behind it?
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-1099	Madam President, I would like It is quite interesting to raise the questions of Aron Emilsson. For financing a budget and bringing together all the efforts that span all areas of expenditure is always a challenge, especially a year like this, when we have chosen to put a very tight budget. We have set priorities in the field of culture. There are, of course, cuts to the government's budget. I have already spoken in my speech about some of the so-called initiatives that the government is making that we reject. In addition, the government budget is what is known as investment, but which is actually only a price and salary recalculation that is embedded in the 349 million. It's pretty new. This is common in budgets in regional and municipal contexts, but it is quite new at the state level. I can also say that the priorities we have chosen to make in the Liberals' budget are about education, defence and the elderly. Much of the money that has traditionally been within the cultural budget for education, i.e. folk high schools and other things, comes back as priorities in the field of education.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-1102	Madam President, I would like Of course, I hear what Bengt Eliasson and the Liberals say and think. I heard something about challenge. I didn't really hear anything about a big vision. I heard about education and defence issues. It wants to weave educational policy thoughts more into the field of cultural policy, as I understand. At the same time, I maintain that the Liberals must roll up their sleeves and show what they want with the cultural area. We know a few things, but in many cases there is a lack of steering speed. What we can see is that, fortunately, the same assessment is being made as regards the fact that sport has an important activity to focus on and cannot take on top responsibility for integration, for example. At the same time, we can see that it is more words than meaning, when the government's amending budget is released and there are no specific opinions in favour of its own opinion. These are words again without tools, funds and resources. The most distressing thing is, for example, that you actually do a reduction on both the National Archives and the National Antiquarie Office. The National Antiquarie Office has actually had a real cut in funding for many years and needs more resources, at least an unchanged grant. The National Archives will have an increased administrative burden with the amendment of the Act on Public Documents. They would need 2 million in addition but thus have a cut in the Liberals' budget. Why? What are the priorities here, and why are these priorities being set?
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-1107	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Aron Emilsson, for the questions and comments! Yes, writing the budget and putting the budget is a delicate task, especially when, as we have done on the Liberal side, you choose to finance the crown for the crown and to write a budget that can actually be followed both backwards and forwards. The reductions that Aron Emilsson mentions in relation to the National Archives and others are really just an extension of the current budget. Our priorities, as I said earlier, this time we have chosen to focus on other areas. With our policy, the funding for the next year's budget would have been greater than it is now, because then there would have been more people in work and more tax money. It's all about priorities, and it's all about actually being honest in their budget writings and being able to finance all the heads for heads.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-1110	Mr President, I would like to I shall first refer to the special opinion of the Christian Democrats. This is also my first debate as a member of the Committee on Culture. It feels very inspiring. Nice to see two ministers here! I have been in a couple of committees early on, and never has the name of the committee been well praised as it does here when you lift up culture with winged words and beautiful expressions about what culture is. I want to start there too. There are keys to every human being, and culture is such a key. When darkness surrounds us, culture is a light in the dark. When the dystopians dominate society, culture is a force that creates quality of life. It goes from heart to heart and helps us to see each other and confirm each other. Culture, education and sport are keys to people and therefore important, not least in terms of integration. The Christian Democrats' view of culture is about a culture with meaning in the present, it is about historical roots that carry culture and it also gives us wings into the future. That's the culture for us. I would like to mention three areas that we Christian Democrats think are important. There are more, but speaking time is limited here today. The first concerns the education of people with folk high schools, study associations and libraries. The unique role of folk high schools lies primarily in pedagogy, the democratic role and the view of knowledge. Therefore, we continue to monitor the interests of folk high schools and work to ensure that the economic conditions are good. The study associations also have a unique role, not least in democratic terms. For example, many immigrant associations have discovered the study circle as an opportunity to improve their activities. The role of libraries as cultural intermediaries cannot be stressed enough. No cultural institution is as popular with the public as the libraries. Now I'll give you a quote too. Robert Schuman, a French Christian Democrat who was involved in creating the EU, said: Society is built by people but consists through institutions. And the fact that authors and other cultural creators have good conditions for their creation is of great importance. Therefore, in our budget exercise, we raise the basic amount of library remuneration by 7 cents for 2016. This costs 149 million. Mr. Alman! The second area I would like to mention is civil society. A vital part of civil society's ability to influence lies in the gifts that people give. You give out of compassion and commitment without demanding anything back for yourself. I think it is magnificent, and there are a lot of people doing it in our country. A gift tax deduction was introduced during the time of the Alliance and Christian Democrats in the government. Now the government is taking it away. The fact is that the fundraising council of NGOs, Frii, has calculated that in this way revenue of SEK 250 million will be lost in the first year, which of course could have been allocated to them. I find it deeply regrettable that this is being removed. We Christian Democrats think that people should be encouraged to give, not to oppose it. We have suggestions on how to develop it so that it could apply to more non-profit-working organisations, such as the sports movement. Mr President, I would like to The third thing I want to mention is the leisure money that is included in our exercise. It is not as a cost in the expenditure area, but it is closely linked with all the things we are raising here tonight. All children should be given good living conditions. However, according to Statistics Sweden, children of single parents in economically vulnerable households participate less in organised leisure activities than children of cohabiting parents. In order to enable children and young people living in financially vulnerable households to participate more in organised leisure activities, the Christian Democrats continue to invest in leisure money. It is a maximum of SEK 3,000 a year and goes to children in grades 4 to 9 who live in households receiving financial assistance, or support as it is called, for six months. It guarantees the accuracy of the grant and becomes available to children in financially vulnerable families. We think that this gives these children an opportunity to develop, which can also be a safeguard against exclusion as we see it. Unfortunately, the government is also removing this possibility. Mr President, I would like to This was just a selection of Christian-democratic cultural policies. I recommend reading our budget bill. So there is much more to be presented, but I would like, out of respect for the agreed time, to end like this, and here is another expression. Bill Clinton is in a conversation with artist Elvis Costello. A bit into the hour-long conversation et says Bill Clinton like this: I'm not sure I could have become president if I hadn 中 t been exposed to music. I'm not sure I'd have been president if I hadn't been able to take part in and practice music. Culture is therefore one of the keys to a person's development. And there are keys to every human being.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-1128	Mr President, I would like to A few weeks ago, the Red-Green Cooperation Government, supported by the Left Party, presented a strong and clear budget proposal. It is a policy for more jobs, for a well-being that can be trusted, where the income gap between men and women is narrowing and with investments in the climate. With this budget, important steps are now being taken to get a Sweden that stands together, and this is crucial for Sweden's further development. Part of making a country stick together and developing is investing in art and culture. Through culture, we can develop as individuals, both by giving us the opportunity to create ourselves and try new things and by breaking their own thoughts together with others and getting new perspectives. To take part in culture and be a part of it is a fundamental element of the cultural policy of the Social Democrats. Mr President, I would like to In times of turbulence and when you feel an uncertainty about what is happening around you and in your vicinity, things that you are not used to, I think it is even more important that people have the opportunity to meet and get new experiences and try new things. That is why I am pleased that with this budget we now have efforts to open up again next year so that everyone can benefit from our joint collections at state museums. This is a reform which, in the past, showed a great increase in interest in visiting the activities of museums. The visitor numbers skyrocketed. That in itself is positive. But another effect was that other museums around the country, other than the state, chose to follow the example because they saw the great interest in the activities of museums. This initiative now allows more adults to accompany, for example, their children or grandchildren and thus share fun and educational experiences. Mr President, I would like to Around almost all our municipalities, children and young people are offered access to the municipal music and culture school. That's good. Unfortunately, however, we see far too many charges in many places. That's why a lot of people don't get the chance. With our investment of SEK 100 million, which will go to promoting low fees within the municipal music and culture school, more children and young people can learn to play an instrument, play theatre or do something else that the cultural school offers. This is to be done at the same time as the first government investigation to look at the music and culture school since its inception in 1940. In addition, a national strategy is now to be developed. Together, this will provide a good basis for how to continue to develop a business that has existed in Sweden for over 70 years. For us, it is important to create opportunities and better conditions for more children and young people in our elongated country to develop through music and culture. It should not depend on which municipality people live in if they are to be able to afford to participate in the municipal music and culture school. If you are serious about investing in children and young people, you must also show it in concrete action. Mr President, I would like to How do we make more people feel involved, and whose stories are told? How do you face what you didn't even know existed? It's not always that easy. But one way is to invest in people's environment. Therefore, an investment in cultural activities is now being carried out in certain residential areas. More people will be allowed to participate, and there will be a great deal of citizen influence. It can be about artistic design of living environments, about cultural activities in residential areas in collaboration with professional cultural creators and civil society, such as the Arts Promotion, study associations or various youth organisations. It is a concrete way of using art and culture as a tool for participation, influence and freedom of expression. The Government's budget includes additional initiatives in the field of culture, such as an extension of the Creative School to include preschool. These are initiatives for the cultural cooperation model, for work on a national library strategy and for cinemas in rural areas. There are also major investments in the sports movement, Swedish outdoor life and public education, but my party colleagues Linus Sköld and Agneta Gille will highlight this in their speeches. Almost all the major investments included in next year's budget for category 17 are rejected by the bourgeois parties. Although they are divided into how much less money they want to spend in the field of expenditure, it is at most up to – 641 million, where the Moderates' budget options end up. That's a no to the free-entry reform. It's no incentive grant to the music and culture school. There is a 'no' to investment in culture in residential areas, and there is a 'no' to more resources for the regions and the cultural cooperation model. There are also no cinemas in the countryside. Talking about the importance of culture is not enough. Action must also be taken to show that this is an important policy area. I am pleased and proud that the Red-Green Cooperation Government, supported by the Left Party, is now presenting a strong cultural budget with clear initiatives. There is absolutely more to be done, but this is a strong and good start. Mr President, I would like to I support the proposal in the report and reject the reservation.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-1143	Mr President, I would like to I want to ask Gunilla Carlsson a question. I really want to understand what you've been thinking. The biggest investment made in the cultural budget is something that does not go directly to culture but goes directly to those who use culture, i.e. the incentive contribution to the cultural school. This is by far the biggest investment you make, and you think it is absolutely the most important thing in Sweden right now. I assume that you have thought about how to use the money, that there is some sort of plan for them. I'm still losing my mind. I tried earlier to get an answer from Rossana Dinamarca, and last Friday there was an interpellation debate. How will the money be distributed? This is a municipal matter. Local politicians make decisions and set fees. We can think what we want about these in some contexts high fees. In general, I would like to see lower fees paid to the cultural school. It's important. It is often wealthy municipalities that have high fees. It is municipalities where people with good incomes live and where there is good tax revenue that has set high fees. Is it these municipalities that Gunilla Carlsson now wants to sponsor? That must be the consequence. If all children are to have reasonable and low fees, the money must go to sponsor the children with the highest fees, i.e. to the municipalities that are actually wealthy. Is it the most prioritised cultural effort right now to put government money in a municipal matter that will go to the municipalities that are best placed from the start? Is that at the heart of social democratic cultural policy at the moment?
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-1148	Mr President, I would like to For the Social Democrats, the importance of more people being able to take part in culture and be involved in culture is one of our basic bolts. Here we see that if we are to reach more children and young people, not least through the fantastic activities that exist in the music and culture school, is a way to provide an incentive grant, to drive the municipalities that have high fees to lower their fees. Municipalities shall not receive compensation from the State unless they choose to hold down the fees. Exactly what the model should look like, as Rossana Dinamarca said, is now being taken to the department. This is a clear effort. We want to reach more children and young people. This is one way. If Olof Lavesson and the Moderates are talking about that it is so important for more people to be reached by culture, it is interesting to see that they are cutting 641 million compared to what the government is doing. Then you criticise all the bets we make, but you do not make a single bet yourself. In your exercise, you highlight the importance of developing the cultural cooperation model. But you're taking money away for the regions. How does it work? Then there will be even less culture in the regions. Was it at one time the idea of the model of cultural cooperation that the state should give up its responsibility to be able to pursue culture in the regions?
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-1152	Mr President, I would like to It is again about counting before and after, how to put together a budget, what is cutbacks and what is enumerated. It is not the case that we are cutting back on the model of cultural cooperation, but we are not restoring the 15 million that the government is doing. That is quite correct. For the 1.3 billion involved, the government's option 15 million is above the Moderates. That is quite correct. We have given a different priority. That is not what determines the model of cultural cooperation. Gunilla Carlsson says that it should be an incentive for municipalities, and the fees must be reduced in order to distribute the money. This still means putting in money for the municipalities that could afford to reduce the fees themselves. They don't. They have chosen not to do this. We can discuss why with the municipalities, but they have chosen not to do so because there is municipal autonomy and this is a municipal activity. Social democracy has always protected local self-government for as long as I can remember. If the aim is to nationalise the cultural school, you can say so. Then we can have a discussion about that. It is possible that we should have that discussion instead. I have not understood that this is a proposal in the debate. In the same way, I am curious about what a national strategy can mean where you do not top control and run over municipal self-government. You have begun at the wrong end of every reform you have proposed. Here you happily put 100 million SEK into something where the strategy is not finished until almost the whole year has passed. You do not know how the money is to be distributed or used, but it should not go to the municipalities where the fee is at its highest. Is this really the most prioritised cultural policy reform for the Social Democrats today? I have to say, I'm a little disappointed. Social democracy has always been very advanced in the debate on cultural policy, but there has obviously been a major change there.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-1158	Mr President, I would like to We are making three major investments in the cultural budget. Free entrance is the first part. The Music and Culture School is the second part. The third part is culture in residential areas. There are also additional investments not least in the cultural collaboration model and at the Creative School. Everyone should have the focus to ensure that more people have the opportunity to take part in culture and participate in it themselves. It is absolutely not that we should top control the municipal music and culture school. But this is an incentive for municipalities to keep their fees down because we know that there are huge differences. As a cultural politician, I want all children and young people to have the opportunity to take part in culture, and this initiative is one way. We'll see exactly how the model should be, but it must of course be so that the municipalities that choose to keep their fees down are also the ones that should be able to access the resources. This is an incentive to ensure that municipalities lower their fees, improve the quality of music and culture schools and ensure that more children and young people get the opportunity to participate.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-1162	Mr President, I would like to To take part of the bourgeois parties' proposals for the cultural budget was a bit like going back in time to an auction for orphans – that kind of auction, you know, where it is not the highest bidder that wins but the lowest bidder. Minus SEK 400 million brings the Christian Democrats to the fore, among other things by cutting resources to the cultural cooperation model, while they hypocritically state that they want to give special priority to regional culture. Minus 500 million hits the Liberals by taking out the cheese slicer and cutting it all over the place, and by making a proper cut in the folk high schools. The interest in the formation of the people apparently disappeared when you changed the name of the party. The Center Party wants to cut by 550 million, but the Moderates are of course squeezing with the absolute largest cut: 640 million kronor. What is particularly puzzling is that the bourgeois parties not only say no to most of the government's proposals for new reforms but also crosswise say no to the various issues of the hearts of the bourgeois parties among themselves. After all the years of common alliance policy, however, it has not been able to explain why it has some different approaches to cultural policy or why it wants to lift different parts. You say no to each other and you show big splits. There is even more to say about the policy of the Swedish Democrats. I will just briefly mention a perspective, namely that the Swedish Democrats want to completely slaughter the conditions for contemporary cultural workers. The Swedish democrats write a little unscrupulously that they want the contemporary culture to stand on its own feet to a greater extent – and put away the legs completely on the contemporary culture workers. Why the fear of contemporary art? Can Aron Emilsson explain why the Swedish Democrats are so terribly afraid of contemporary culture? In stark contrast to this, of course, is the government's proposal, the red-green cultural policy. It is the biggest increase in funding to the cultural budget in ten years we see in the bill that the government has come forward with, the largest and most offensive cultural budget in ten years. There are three areas in particular that I would like to highlight in the efforts that the government is now making. It is about a diversity of culture, about fair conditions for cultural workers and about accessibility to culture for everyone throughout Sweden, not least for children and young people. We strengthen Creative School by including preschool in that business as well. We are strengthening the conditions for children and young people throughout the country to take part in the music and culture school, which the debate has been a lot about so far. All young people, regardless of the municipality in which they grow up, should have the opportunity to take part in a music and cultural school. We are also expanding Sweden's folk high schools with 3,000 seats next year. As far as the fair terms are concerned, a piece of the puzzle is a strengthened library allowance. Libraries are a bit of the image of an accessible and resource-efficient cultural policy – the individual book that can be read by so many and delight so many readers. But of course the author should also have a reasonable payment for his work. Another important piece of the puzzle is that we have strengthened the performing arts alliances so that more performing arts workers get decent, reasonable working conditions. As far as cultural diversity is concerned, there are a number of initiatives. We are strengthening funding for Sami culture. We are strengthening the funding for the Living History Forum. We are investing extensively in culture in socially vulnerable areas. We almost double the funding for outdoor recreation organisations – a venture that goes hand in hand with the budget available within the Ministry of Environment to buy protected natural areas and make them available. However, in recent weeks – or months, in fact – I have often been asked or asked whether it is reasonable to go forward with such a strong and offensive cultural budget at these times, when we know that at the same time we urgently need to step up efforts to increase the capacity of the reception of refugees. Is it reasonable to invest so much in culture when resources are needed elsewhere? These are, of course, very difficult issues – the urgent need versus the longer term. But I cannot come to a different conclusion from the fact that it is precisely in times when these we must protect culture and give it the opportunity to grow. When so many people are concerned, culture must be there to be able to amuse themselves, to attract laughter or tears. When many people feel stress, when quick decisions are to be made in faster and faster world changes, culture must be there to give breathing space, call for reflection and give new perspectives. And at a time when many people actually doubt the meaning of life, culture must be there to give life meaning. I therefore call for the proposal in the Culture Committee's report to be approved and for reservations to be rejected.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-1180	Mr President, I would like to I really have no obligation to go in and respond to the speech you made, Niclas Malmberg, but it sounded like we in the Alliance and we Christian Democrats are not betting. It sounded like it was just downsizing. Instead, when the government invests in 3,000 seats for folk high school, we invest in 1,500. It's not like we're not betting. We invest a total of 3.8 billion in adult education, 1.9 billion in sport and 1.3 billion in regional cultural activities. So this is where it goes; it does. It's just that we don't take it in through taxes, as you do. You are making huge tax increases in various areas, which you collect and then distribute money. It's simple math, but that's actually how it works. Let us hope that these tax increases in various areas do not hamper growth too much in the future. That's probably the big risk when you hit hard at companies, among other things. But I was going to ask you something else, Niclas Malmberg, because I am new to the committee and also curious. I know it does not really belong in the budget, but I am extremely curious about it because it is so closely linked to what we are talking about today. Where does the Green Party stand when it comes to copyright? I hear different signals. Niclas Malmberg! You have to remove all the doubts I have about the view of copyright in the Green Party.
i-HVTgeVN5cnS414SyVrmUpV	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Roland Utbolt, for that question! First, a concrete answer to the simple question: The Green Party wants to strengthen and develop copyright. There should be no doubt about that. There we have a great deal of work to do in common within the EU. This is an issue that we will actually have occasion to discuss tomorrow at the committee meeting at that time. It was a bit on the side of the budget. To go back to the budget and the policy we are going to discuss today, it is just as Roland Utbolt says: The government, together with the Left Party, has increased revenue from increased taxes, and we choose to make a very offensive effort on cultural policy, among other things. The levels of ambition are clearly different here. I did not point out the Christian Democrats as particularly defensive when it comes to folk high schools. In fact, it is the Liberals who are making the biggest cuts. The Christian Democrats, too, are 95 million lower than the government proposal, but there it is the Liberals who are to blame. As far as the model of cultural cooperation is concerned, it is the Christian Democrats who make the biggest cut, worse than the other alliance parties, despite the fact that the Christian Democrats at the same time write that they want to safeguard the model of cultural cooperation on the basis that the principle of subsidiarity is an important cornerstone of Christian Democratic thinking. If we are dealing with an area which, in our own cultural policy, is important in making cuts, then I would not want to be an area which we do not consider important.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-1190	Mr President, I would like to Now I'm the one asking the questions in the line shift. I would like to come back to what we were discussing earlier. I've been thinking about how credible Niclas Malmberg is as an environmental party. I'm a little concerned about the party if you look at the betrayal that it previously delivered. Consider, for example, what happened to Vattenfall. So now I am thinking of credibility. That's what I'm discussing. First you wave brown coal pieces and then it turns out that you can imagine selling Vattenfall, which you had promised not to do. The 2014 election manifesto was: We will always work for a more humane and open policy, and we will never make it harder for people to come to Sweden. That is what the Green Party said, and that is why I am a little worried about copyright. I'm worried it's the same way there, that the Green Party will turn eventually. Let me read from the Alliance's Culture Bill, Time for Culture, which says: It's an old dish. It's about ownership and major international achievements, isn't it? I've heard different signals from different environmental partners when it comes to copyright. Just give me a confirmation that you, Niclas Malmberg, will not change your mind on this point.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-1195	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by commenting briefly on the debauchery, which is very far removed from cultural policy. Of course, the Green Party's climate policy is solid. The coal belongs in the ground. We're not going to burn the coal. How best to manage this policy is a difficult issue, but I believe that the government is dealing with it in a very responsible way precisely to minimise CO2 emissions. The climate issue is the environmental party's most important issue. We are pushing to get as calm and as good a climate policy as possible. As for copyright, I noticed a few days ago that a Swedish democrat had recorded a song and the author of the song said that he will use the proceeds to support the reception of refugees. I blogged about it because I thought it so amazingly well shows that copyright is needed. Someone else should not be able to take your material and use it for their own purpose, but the person who basically created something is the one who should have copyright, property rights, and get the proceeds from it. Of course, copyright is a fundamental element of the policy that we are pursuing. We want to develop copyright. In the actions of the government, there is no doubt whatsoever that it is in this direction that one is working. Why the Christian Democrats are trying to state that other environmentalists would have said otherwise in the past is strange. After all, we must discuss the policy pursued by the Green Party in Parliament and the policy pursued by the Green Party together with the Social Democrats in the government.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-1198	Mr President, I would like to Niclas Malmberg claims that the Swedish Democrats would slaughter contemporary culture economically if I understood it correctly. I would like to start by pointing out that the Swedish Democrats in this year's spending area motion are making offensive efforts that come to contemporary culture and cultural and artistic practitioners. For major reforms such as Creative School, where the education system will meet professional cultural creators and artists, we have a significantly higher level of ambition than the government. It gives rings on the water. We are broadening and expanding the Swedish Theatre's mission to ensure that they are located all over the country. We initiate and introduce a proper Sami cultural and educational lift, which also Niclas Malmberg's party Environmental Party speaks warmly for but does not go all the way. We have ideas and resources for creating elderly care together with, for example, Culture in health care, where art and cultural practitioners from different cultural activities benefit directly from their activities. Not infrequently, freelancers could be employed for this type of cultural activity, which both county councils and municipalities could associate with. What does the Green Party want to do about the imbalance that exists? They talk widely about contemporary culture, which is de facto important, but forgets all other cultural branches, not least the different forms of cultural heritage – the National Heritage Office, the National Archives and many other institutions. This also applies to the conservation of the cultural environment, which has in fact been downgraded for many years. What do you want to do there? Where are the visions?
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-1202	Mr President, I would like to Let me go through some of the Swedish democrats' cuts in contemporary culture. The cultural collaboration model aims to cut by SEK 40 million, artistic decoration of the common environment by SEK 10 million, the contribution to literature and cultural journals is reduced by SEK 32 million and compensation and grants to artists by SEK 33 million, the support to Moderna Museet is reduced by SEK 20 million and the support to the Living History Forum by SEK 10 million. In all budget lines directed directly at contemporary artists, the Swedish Democrats make substantial cuts. The Swedish democrats formulate it as that the contemporary culture should be more on its own, and so you put your legs away. The Swedish democrats create a situation where only commercial culture has a space. But the avant-garde, the innovative culture, needs public support in order to be able to exist, in order to develop. Unfortunately, the Swedish democrats are making cuts there.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-1205	Mr President, I would like to Let me make it clear: a number of the reforms and offensive efforts that we are making in the areas that I mentioned come to the benefit of art and culture practitioners. I believe that Niclas Malmberg and the Green Party understand and should be able to accept this. As far as the cultural cooperation model is concerned, it is a very large and largely very good item of expenditure and reform that has been launched. The reduction we are doing there in favour of other priorities actually gives the cultural area more resources than the government overall, despite the fact that the government is passionate about its offensive efforts. These are not major re-priorities in this context. As far as cultural journals are concerned, we have carried out an extensive review, and this year we are making a major contribution to cultural and literary journals, which also benefit cultural and artistic creators and smaller cultural magazine editors who are purely cultural and political. On the other hand, the Green Party is guilty of what they want with other parts of contemporary culture. Niclas Malmberg speaks warmly that they have now given priority to Sami issues, Sami lifts and other things, but this is a very small effort in relation to the Sami cultural lift that the Swedish Democrats are making with an emphasis on Gaaltije – the South Sami cultural centre, as well as the language and education system within the Sameting, as well as their other activities that are truly contemporary cultural for the indigenous people.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-1209	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased, Aron Emilsson, that the Swedish Democrats have done some repriorities. Last year, you wanted to completely slaughter the cultural journals. Now you've backed away from it, and you're doing the whole cut-back on literature support instead. There will be substantial cuts in literature support. I hope that you will be able to re-prioritise further in the future. You write in your reservation that the Swedish Democrats reject the Government's proposal to reduce the funding for film support by SEK 25 million. However, the government does not reduce the funding for film support, but invests SEK 25 million in cinemas in less densely populated areas. Since the Swedish Democrats have so clearly read wrong in the budget bill, I hope that they will back off their proposal there.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-1212	Mr President, I would like to The entry of the Left Party into the budget negotiations with the government in general has been to reduce the gaps in society between men and women and between those who have not. Culture is welfare, and welfare is something that should be accessible to everyone. Access to culture, both experiencing and creating, should not depend on a wallet. Unfortunately, we know that for many, hobbies for their children are something that may be rejected. It makes us feel good to create. It is therefore important that there are meeting places, amateur culture and a cultural school that does not charge high fees to the children who want to go there without as many as possible getting as much chance to practice culture themselves. The municipal music and culture school is one of the largest cultural activities for children and young people. We want the cultural school to be more accessible and equal. In several municipalities, fees are so high that many families lack the possibility to pay. It has been a year since it was supposed that this initiative would become a reality. Finally – pepper, pepper, if you may say so – will the 100 million to be given annually to promote low fees in the municipal music and culture school so that more children will have the opportunity to participate in the cultural school's activities. All children should have the opportunity to feel the joy and development of dancing, theatre, art and music themselves. It is also good for children's and young people's confidence. That is why it is an important step that the Left Party has now agreed with the government to reduce the fees. It feels good to once again be able to press the play button after standing on pause, a break that we really didn't need. After eight years of bourgeois rule, many of us who were starved of a cultural policy were worthy of the name. Politics has torn apart artistic freedom with demands for profit, regulation and conditions that cannot be lived on as an artist. In addition, the far right forces are stronger and threaten the free culture. Art and culture should not operate on the premises of politics. It will create its own guidelines. But now comes the bets. Last year, the bourgeois parties, supported by the Swedish Democrats, ran against culture with a big sledgehammer. Taken on the bed that their politics became a reality, they got stubbed up among the cuts when the cultural journals' strong voice seemed to surprise. This year none of the alliance parties have proposed any reductions in the cultural journals, as evidenced by experience might be believed. Instead, cuts have been made in other areas. That's everything between the Christian Democrats' 405 million and the Moderates' 641 million crowns. It is very clear how anti-cultural the bourgeois parties and the Swedish Democrats are and how much they dislike public support for culture. Nevertheless, we have now heard several representatives of the bourgeois standing here telling us that it is not really a question of cuts, but of investments. But minus is still minus. Now, as I said, the bets are coming. It is about culture school, folk high schools, museums, creative school and cinemas in smaller towns. It is a series of initiatives that previous speakers from S and MP have also addressed. It is a step on the road to a more just and equal society. I therefore support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-1222	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mrs Rosanna, for your speech. I forgot earlier to thank Niclas Malmberg for his speech. By the way, I forgot to give credit to the government. I'll figure it out now. It's about the second-hand shops that don't have the VAT. I think that was very good. I'd like to say that. It was worked on earlier, but now it became a reality. I would like to make two points with you. We've got two lines here. The first concerns your expression that it is not in the religions that cultural workers exist. I wonder what you're basing that claim on. If there's a basis for that, it's okay. But I mean it's not like that. When it comes to cultural workers in the religious communities, I think of all the church concerts held there and a large number of musicians from the religious communities who have become professional musicians. It is common knowledge that many have run from, for example, the free church. It's pretty historyless what you're saying considering Johann Sebastian Bach and all the culture that's sprung out of the baroque, renaissance and everything where the church was very involved. I'm having a bit of a hard time digesting that you're saying it's not in the religions that the cultural workers exist. Maybe you should explain it. I'm not really sure you're thinking that way. There is the Christian Council of Sweden. I am not just thinking about Christian activity. There are also others who contribute in various ways, a Bible translation, and so forth.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-1227	Mr President, I would like to I think what I said was that maybe that's not what you associate with cultural workers. Of course you're right. I guess I'll have to take it back to some extent, Mr President. What I really meant in the shift with Olof Lavesson from the Moderates was that it was the only post where you could see that there was a plus compared to the government budget. It wasn't even cultural efforts in the religions. There were other types of bets that were more about security-enhancing measures, if I do not remember wrong. You can't accuse the Moderates of making an investment in the culture of the religions. I just want to make that clear.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-1230	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Rosanna. Now I am much more satisfied and much more satisfied. I have one more question. It's about the extracurricular money. You have to help me understand why the government side and the Left Party, and I think you can make yourself an interpreter for everyone, have such difficulty in thinking that such a accurate contribution as leisure money could be of benefit to the most vulnerable children. The families have had subsistence support for six months. It's about people who have had it really hard and who struggle every day. You may find it hard to get into it. But it's a survival issue. Then there is a grant to apply per year for SEK 3 000, known as leisure money. There you can take part in various activities and also the cultural school. What makes you so hard to imagine? Instead, you are investing in subsidising the cultural school in such a way that it actually benefits rich municipalities most if I understand it correctly. This is accurate. It meets the children who really need that money. Why are you having such a hard time accepting this?
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-1235	Mr President, I would like to When it comes to culture school and who it will benefit, Roland Utbolt does not reasonably know or anyone on the bourgeois side how it is. Both I and Gunilla Carlsson have answered questions about this. We want to be able to ensure that it is investments that should go to those who have really wanted to reduce the fees in order to be able to make available for more people to go to school and not to wealthy municipalities that have ignored it and have not bothered like that. It will benefit those who really need it and who have been at the forefront of these issues. I believe as a left-wing party in a welfare that is general. I do not believe that marginalised people should feel even more marginalised. It is about having a welfare that is to be trusted for all people. That is also why I believe that it is better to raise taxes for those who are the most wealthy and thus also to ensure that children and young people are protected and that the gaps between rich and poor are evened out. It was not really the policy of the bourgeois, but they pursued a policy that increased the gap between the poor and the rich. Then maybe it fits with the model with leisure money that Roland Utbolt has. Then you can deafen your conscience and think: We give some alms to those who are poor. We want to invest in general welfare. I would like us to be able to go to tax increases that relate to more than the 30 crowns that applied to them with over 50 000 crowns. I think we can do better. Let's go up a little bit more. You and I can contribute a little more through the tax bill to ensure that we get a general welfare where children don't have to be poor.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-1240	Mr President, I would like to The autumn we are about to put behind us has been tumultuous. It has brought great challenges for many – for government, for parliament, for municipalities and for regions. But most of all it has been a challenging and in many cases terrible autumn for all the children and adults who have been forced to flee from war and oppression and who will now try to build their lives here in Sweden. Istanbul, Beirut, Paris, Bamako and many more cities and places in the world have suffered from ruthless terrorism. The murderers are merciless, and many innocent people have paid with their lives. At the same time, over the past few months, I have been repeatedly overwhelmed by people's commitment and willingness to help. It is with pride that I note that our cultural institutions are among these good forces. Both at local and national level, museums have assumed their important role as a meeting place and have quickly invited people on the run to be able to participate in their activities free of charge. Our museums offer not only arenas for meetings between people but also an opportunity to take part in what has shaped the culture. It creates opportunities for recognition and participation. It makes a difference. Sweden's library operators also mobilize, strengthened by the mandate of the Library Act: to promote the development of democratic society. Libraries adjust opening hours so that branches close to asylum homes can give new arrivals a chance to use the libraries. They strengthen the range of books in Arabic, Persian, Tigrinja, Kurdish and other languages. Book buses reroute the route so that they can support refugee homes. It makes a difference. Mr President, I would like to It is bubbling and moving in Kultursverige. Culture is a sector that wants to play a role and wants to live and grow. All the will and commitment I face when I'm out in the country overwhelms and instills hope. I am proud to present the government's cultural budget. It is a culture budget in time that will benefit many people throughout our country. A strong cultural policy protects the independence and integrity of art and allows our various art forms to operate freely in their own direction. A strong cultural policy understands that the role of politics is to create the conditions for free culture and focus on structures, funding and opportunities. The government makes an increase in the cultural budget of historical measures – SEK 359 million more to culture in comparison with the cultural budget of the bourgeois parties, which we are now leaving behind. Culture in some residential areas is a long-awaited initiative based on the needs and wishes of the residents and characterised by broad citizen influence. SEK 130 million will be distributed over three years. The Royal Library has been commissioned to submit proposals for a national library strategy to promote collaboration and quality development throughout the public library system. Film in all its forms is one of the strongest forms of expression today. In recent years, the actors in the Swedish film industry have called for change – after a film policy that wants something. The Government intends to implement a transformation of film policy, which means that from 2017 onwards the State will assume overall responsibility for national film policy. At the same time, Swedish film will receive SEK 235 million. In 2016, next year, the government will invest SEK 25 million in strengthening cinemas in sparsely populated areas and in smaller towns. The opportunities to see films and other culture such as opera and concerts will increase regardless of where you live in our country. This, Mr President, is doing the government to give more culture to more people throughout the country. The government invests 80 million a year to introduce free admission at state museums. By removing the entrance fee, the threshold is lowered, and more are thus given the opportunity to take part in the rich variety that museums offer. The municipal music and culture school plays a crucial role in young people's creation. Today, the cultural school, which we have heard many speakers in the past, looks different in different municipalities in terms of supply, quality and fees. SEK 100 million is invested in promoting low fees in the cultural school. The aim is to make the business more accessible and equal. And this is only a first step in the government's ambition for culture school. Culture should be made more accessible throughout the country. More culture to more people! 15 million is added to regional culture by strengthening the model of cultural co-operation. This means that we are restoring the money that the bourgeois parties, supported by the Swedish Democrats last year, snatched from regional culture.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-1254	Mr President, I would like to There have been still winds in cultural policy for eight years. The cultural boat has been stationary, firmly anchored with the workline anchor. I do not know whether the Minister for Culture and Democracy recognizes the words, but that is how she began her speech in the Chamber about a year ago. There is no one who can accuse the Minister of Culture of the fact that the debate on cultural policy is now in a stylistic state. Now there's a storm on the open sea. The moorings have been hijacked. The anchor of the workline is left on the bottom while the boat operates a little freely. I do not doubt the commitment and the will. The ambition is to sail towards the horizon, but unfortunately both charts and compass were forgotten on the land slope. What do the Social Democrats want? asked once August Palm. I will not ask the Minister for Culture to answer that question, and there is no doubt that the Green Party wants much. But will is not enough; we must also have a road map. I showed in my speech in a number of areas where the government shoots from the hip but seems to be constantly missing the target. But I would like to give the Minister for Culture the opportunity to give clear answers here and now in at least one area, namely the free-entry reform. My questions are quite simple: who should the reform apply? And for what? Are these all exhibitions for everyone or just basic exhibitions for some? Should a new entrance fee for children and young people in temporary exhibitions finance the entry of established cultural consumers and German tourists? Where will the museums take the money when the compensation is not enough? In the past, the Minister has said: we will add more money. Does the Minister have a free drawing right at the Ministry of Finance, and if so, how much is that drawing right? How will museums not covered solve their situation when visitors expect to enter for free there too?
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-1259	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Olof Lavesson, for the question and for the opportunity to deepen me and give you answers. I am proud that we are now going forward as a government with a reform for free entry again. This is a successful example of a cultural policy initiative carried out by the Social Democratic Government in the past and from which we can now learn. We know that it will encourage more people to have access to our common taxes. The 80 million crowns will hopefully be enough. They are based on information from the museums themselves about their entrance revenue and what they estimate should be sufficient for basic exhibitions primarily to be free of charge for everyone who goes to the museums. It may also be that some special exhibitions will be covered, but in the first place it is the basic exhibitions. This is a reform of several that is clear signs of the cultural policy that the government is pursuing. We want to give more culture to more people and to the whole country. We know, also show from the experience of the previous period m ed free-entré reform, that more museums around the country joined, opened their doors and offered their treasures for free. They lowered the thresholds, and a new audience came to our museums. That is why we are proud to do this again.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-1263	Mr President, I would like to When we abolished the last free-entr é reform, it meant a reduction in the number of visitors. That's exactly right. The museums then received as much money as during the free-entry reform, and even more, and the visitors returned. The Minister for Culture says a lot, and that's the word that's in focus here, because this isn't really a new policy. I would have expected a little more from the Green Party, because this is old sosse politics that might have been found in some desk drawer from Pagrotsky's time. The question is whether the challenges facing museums are met with this reform. They say that there are completely different things that are needed. They need broader competence, diversity, digitalisation, new forms of collaboration and long-term economic sustainability, and that is not something that this really solves. The Minister for Culture is clear in his reply, which I have longed to receive, and I am grateful for that. The reform concerns the basic exhibitions for everyone. Good, then I know. Today everyone has up to 19 years of free access to everything. That's no longer the case. This may be the case, we do not know, but this is where children and young people are drawn into the opportunity to go to museums free of charge to fund the visits of established cultural consumers to the basic exhibitions. It's clear. Moreover, it is a reform, and it cannot be denied by the Minister of Culture, which strikes the wrong geographically. This is aimed at 19 museums, 16 of which are in the inner city of Stockholm. It is hoped that others will follow, but there is no money for it. At the same time, museums say that it is long-term economic stability that you are looking for, but now you will suddenly stand with visitors who say: We want to come in for free, now you have to arrange this. But you don't get any money for it. It was also a relaxation on the part of the Minister in terms of what it will cost, and I think that is a little more balanced. A year ago, the Minister said that this is going to cost 80 million, end of story. It's not like that anymore. Now she says we'll see what it costs, and maybe we'll have to adjust afterwards. I guess that's when you haven't really prepared. Then you have to take it as it comes and try to shoot from the hip.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-1268	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Olof Lavesson! Old sosse politics should not be thrown out with the bath water. There are goodies to be picked up there, and I am, as I said earlier, glad that cultural policy reforms have been tried out in the past. Although the bourgeois threw out a lot of bathing water, we can collect it again and do good things for the entire Swedish people. I really want to stress this whole country thing. During the remaining term of office, we will show that our cultural policy is for the whole country. We do so, for example, by reintroducing the 15 million you do not want to invest in the cultural cooperation model, and we do so when we now invest 25 million SEK in cinemas in the country. SEK 25 million will mean an incredible amount for the cinemas. It will be invested both in those that exist and by developing them so that they become arenas for concerts and so on. It is culture for the whole country and more culture for more people that our policy will show that we are implementing and that we stand for. I am very pleased that we are now presenting this in our budget.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-1271	Mr President, I would like to There is, of course, much to be said about the government's cultural policy or, what has been said in the past, the lack of cultural policy. It could not have been easy to assume responsibility for the Ministry of Culture after the elections without a lot of cultural policy programmes. We can understand that. At the same time, it must be given to the Minister that she has been diligent and involved in the field of cultural policy during the year. You have to admit that. Some time ago, the Green Party decided to address the lack of cultural policy programmes, and a working group for this gave up a programme that was radical to say the least and caused many to react, including environmentalists. Most of us have noted, I believe, that the Minister of Culture and others have distanced themselves from much of this cultural programme. The question remains: does the Minister see any of the proposals as feasible, and if so, what? And what are the government's actual visions and opportunities in the field of cultural policy given the current economic situation?
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-1274	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question, Aron Emilsson! This is a budget debate, but I am happy to comment on the development of the Green Party and how we are moving it forward. We are a party that wants to be transparent and courageous, and that is why we have working groups in many different policy areas. One of these working groups has been a working group on cultural policy which has submitted proposals to the party board. This means that the party board will now take care of those proposals. Perhaps some of these proposals will be submitted to our next Congress, and perhaps Congress will adopt some of the proposals. It is a long way to go and is uncertain, but this is a way for our party to develop, to keep its ear to the ground and to have cultural workers, as most were in this group, come up with proposals for us. I am pleased that Aron Emilsson has experienced that I have been active – that was acknowledged by the Member of Parliament. Those were nice words from a Swedish Democrat. I had hoped that you would have challenged me a little more in the fields of cultural policy. Something that I really want to emphasise after reading the Swedish Democrats' proposals is that cultural policy is not a solitary one. It cannot be separated from any other policy. Therefore, the cultural policy of the Swedish democrats becomes so interesting. It feels like a fantasy. It is a dream world with many beautiful words, but when you look at the entire policy of the Swedish Democrats you understand that it does not have its starting point in the equal value of all people. That is why it can never be a cultural policy that I and the government can take seriously.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-1278	Mr President, I would like to We can begin where the Minister concluded that culture and the cultural perspective must permeate and give credence in more policy areas than just culture. It is interesting that the Green Party, the Government and more parties reject and reject our goals that are more cross-sectoral and intended to bring in a cultural perspective to an even greater extent and with an actual function in health care, care and in the social building, both overall and physical, in the country's municipalities and at national level. Explaining your visions must be a challenge, but what are the opportunities to put resources behind the ideas? It's a running point. The Minister of Finance has stated that all departments, including the Ministry of Culture, must turn all the stones around to bring resources to the only priorities, namely migration and integration. What guarantees are there that even the current announced initiatives may be implemented? What is more than spending millions of dollars on cultural, sporting and educational integration policies? Kultursverige screams for funds, resources and tools for cultural conservation, Riksantikvariebetet and Sweden's museums, which had 18 million visitors last year and is a really big attraction factor for Cultural Sweden for both residents and tourists. I believe that the Green Party and the Minister symbolise the cultural gap. We need to be able to see the balance. The large cultural heritage sector is also asking for will, resources and support.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-1283	Mr President, I would like to When the Green Party formed a government together with the Social Democrats, we made an agreement. It was preceded by tough and long negotiations. Then we discussed and laid out a plan for what we should invest in during the term of office. Culture and cultural policy are one of those areas. We'll bet on it. Then we didn't know how the world would change. At the time, we did not know what priorities we had to make in order to show solidarity with the people who are fleeing for their lives. We did not know at all that reality would look like it is today. None of us knew that in here. This does not mean, however, that cultural policy efforts will be reduced, on the contrary. We see culture and cultural policy as arenas where people can meet and develop. I would really like to emphasise this and hope that I will be able to astound the honourable Member with all the efforts that we will be making in the future. As far as cultural heritage is concerned, I would also like to emphasise what I think Olof Lavesson mentioned earlier: V i will present a proposal for cultural heritage. I look forward to working together on it. It will be extremely important for Sweden and the future. It will also affect all our institutions, all our museums, all our cultural arenas. That bet will be made. We will also continue to invest in the conditions of cultural workers. You should be able to live as an artist in Sweden, and you should be able to work in freedom.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-1288	Mr President, I would like to All young people in Sweden should feel confident in the future. An important part of this is having a job and a personal income. Labour market developments are currently good. Unemployment is falling and the number of employed is increasing. We see a sharp fall in youth unemployment, which is very gratifying. But while those who are close to the labour market in this context have great opportunities to come back to work, there are groups that are too far away from the labour market to be able to easily come back. Over the last decade, the group of young people who do not work or study has been at best constant, and at worst this group has grown. It is a group that is not only far from the labour market. For that group too, it is far too remote to go back to studies and thus obtain the qualifications required by the labour market to be employable. Among those who are completely out of work and studying, 70% are in exactly the same situation a year later. This means that you have been standing still for almost a year, and when you have, it is quite dark for the future. This is a group that runs a very high risk of long-term exclusion from working and social life. If we are to get these young people back to work or study, it is not enough to reduce taxes and hope that everything will work out. The government is therefore carrying out a wide-ranging effort to increase youth employment. We are in favour of a business policy for more and growing companies. We invest in lack of vocational training to make young people more employable and thus demanded of the labour market. In general, we are pursuing an economic policy that promotes growth. And when growth is promoted, the economy grows. As the economy grows, jobs come. And those jobs can be taken by more and more people, including our young people. This also leads us to invest in our infrastructure. We invest in housing, and all this benefits our entire society as well as the young. However, we see that the general policy does not get to the group of young people who are farthest away in terms of both the labour market and the establishment of society. That is why we must have targeted efforts directly at these young people to ensure that they come back in every way, both into the labour market and into social life. In connection with this, the Prime Minister initiated a national collection for young people outside on May 1st. Work on this has been going on during the autumn. The other week I was able to present the strategy of efforts for young people who are neither working nor studying, which means that the government takes a comprehensive approach to the work of getting that group to come back to work or study. The strategy contains several different elements where actions are directed directly to the target group. The National Agency for Youth and Civil Society, MUCF, has been tasked with allocating state grants for activities to facilitate young people's entry into the labour market and ensuring that young people do not fall within the responsibility of different actors. Unfortunately, something happens far too often. The National Board of Education is tasked with carrying out operational measures to prevent early school leaving. We set aside funds to enable the Folkbildningsrådet to implement initiatives for new ways into working life. At the same time as presenting the strategy, I also had the honour of presenting Inger Ashing, Save the Children's Chairman, who has been given the task of holding the government's work together on this. She will also have the task of spreading good examples that exist around the country in activities for young people who have been excluded but also young people who are at risk in one way or another. I would like to highlight an example of such work that is already being carried out and that the government wants to highlight and disseminate around the country. It's the Angereds challenge. The business community, together with civil society and high school, takes on young people and gives them access to parts of society that they would otherwise find difficult to take part in, including in the form of internships and mentoring, but also networks, which we know is necessary to establish themselves. The government is also investing in education. We know that education reaches a wide range of people with education and training. Both are very important for a democratic and sustainable society. The government is investing in a major knowledge boost for Sweden. There are more places in higher education institutions and universities, universities of applied sciences and municipal adult education, but also in folk high schools. We know that folk high schools can lift people with their special pedagogy, even those who did not like or manage to complete an education in the regular education system. Different forms of education suit different people. Then the different forms of education should be available, if you need that kind of pedagogy, to create an inclusive society where we build our prosperity together. Mr President, I would like to In Sweden we also have a large refugee immigration at present. The people who come to our country have different experiences and educational backgrounds. It is something we should take advantage of to build on our well-being but also our economy. We are now ensuring that the establishment of all new arrivals in Swedish society takes place as quickly as possible. Most asylum seekers and new arrivals that I have met want nothing more than to learn the Swedish language, start working, get their own housing, get their own support and send the children to school. We shall take advantage of this momentum. That is why the government has initiated what we call Swedish from day one, which means that asylum seekers should have the opportunity to learn the language already during the asylum period. I have visited several businesses with Swedish from day one. We initiated this in our amending budget. This effort is now further reinforced by the supplementary amending budget. What we now know is that from day one, Swedish reaches tens of thousands of asylum seekers and new arrivals who remain in facility housing. This strengthens their knowledge of the Swedish language and also of Swedish society. The study associations are doing a fantastic job because they have managed to get this activity started in such a short time. Folkbildning, both study associations and folk high schools, improves the establishment of society and the labour market. But we should not forget the importance of peoples' education also building sustainable societies. They fight all forms of extremism. In contrast to extremism, they stand for humanity and build stable societies. The government's focus on youth policy and our efforts on education are intended to create more inclusive, sustainable societies. I intend to continue to pursue an active policy in these areas in order to strengthen people's opportunities to participate in society and build on the Swedish model. This is important for everyone's faith in the future, but especially for young people.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-1308	Mr President, I would like to I think we all agree here that civil society policy, including the religions, is important. It must be most strongly protected and supported. Civil society makes people feel involved. It contributes to the development of society and to the well-being of all. Civil society contributes to good public health, community between people and social cohesion. For us Moderates, it is important to make it easier for civil society to carry out its activities. We're a fraternity people. Nearly eight out of ten Swedes say they are in at least one association, and we have about 200,000 associations in Sweden. Fortunately, membership and engagement have remained stable in recent years, although some changes have taken place, such as the entry of social media. Civil society is a – to use Gunilla Carlsson's words – basic bolt in our democracy. It is a wonderful phenomenon when people come together to improve their own lives or those of others. What a force there is in this! Mr President, I would like to For us Moderates, it is important to facilitate and strengthen civil society organisations in order to preserve their independence. It's a matter of heart for us. It is also a challenge for the government today to develop the independence of civil society and everyone's ability to engage, to make their voice heard and to gain influence. Then I think of the situation that Sweden and Europe find themselves in, with a large number of asylum seekers people who will quickly integrate and enter our society, learn the language, get a job and feel included. They're about to start a new life in Sweden. It is a great challenge for our country to make this work. In civil society, religions have a central role and they are very important and will be important for the future in the establishment of new arrivals. By engaging the religions in the establishment of new arrivals, they also take advantage of existing skills, and that is good both in the present and in the future. Mr President, I would like to Support in the amending budget improves the conditions for different communities to maintain and develop their associations and, above all, to promote religious diversity in Sweden. Freedom of religion is central to democracy. All people in a country should be able to exercise their faith in a dignified and secure way. The Migration Agreement adds an extra 105 million to the non-profit sector. It is money that should go exclusively to the establishment of newly arrived refugees. The religious communities receive about 10 million while the rest of civil society receives about 95 million – all to make it easier for newcomers to enter the new country. A year ago, the government wanted to halve the contribution to the religions, from 77 million to 45 million a year. It was because of the government's priorities, said the Minister of Culture at the time. The government proposed that the funding for religious communities should increase by 7 million for 2016, and that money should be used for continued security work. We wanted to increase by an additional 3 million, including the government's proposal, i.e. a total of 10 million which would go to security work in and around religious buildings. Our budget won, as you know. We already saw the security situation for the religions and were concerned about developments. Now the government has withdrawn, and I am pleased that the government has changed its analysis of the religions. Today they receive an additional 10 million under the Migration Agreement, in particular for their work on the establishment of new arrivals. There is both security-enhancing money and start-up money for new arrivals.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-1320	Mr President, I would like to I am so delighted and proud of the autumn budget that we in the SD have presented. We have invested and focused mainly on culture in healthcare, and I intend to highlight this in today's speech. As a dancer, I myself have had insight and understanding of how to work with culture in healthcare in a broad way. You can use the dance to get patients who have been on sick leave for a longer period to get their endorphins moving and then feel a little joy. Or you can play theater to forget how much pain you have in your body. Or you can be out in nature to meditate on all the hard things in your everyday life. Or you can plant new life in the soil and see it grow into a beautiful flower. Or you can hear the music's tones that make you dream away. What I describe is called culture on recipes. Culture in health care is underestimated, and it has still not had the impact for which there is capacity. I believe that we have research on our side, and we must, above all, dare to invest in it. Mr President, I would like to If we can easily get cultural practitioners to meet patients and share the joy that is felt by practicing culture and helping others, I think we will all be there for it. We invest SEK 35 million annually as an incentive grant for culture in health care to the county councils in order for them to get started with this business. The best thing about this bet is that it has no medical side effects. This initiative is inspired by Norway, where they have targeted national support, called the cultural spaserstokken. The objectives of this initiative are to ensure high quality art and cultural communication for the elderly, to provide the conditions for greater cooperation between culture and the health and social care sector and to ensure that there is a wide range of culture available to all. Mr President, I would like to Creative school is known to all of us. We have an initiative to also include preschool in this. We welcome the fact that even the Moderates support it and join in on it. We have developed this into creative care for the elderly this year. We know from research but, above all, from our own experience that our elderly are getting worse when they end up in retirement homes. We can discuss why this is so. Among other things, there is a shortage of staff at the root of this. You don't get seen. What if a small theatre group can play their performance for the elderly or get the elderly to take a theatre class at the accommodation. Or they may be allowed to go out into nature to take part of our beautiful nature but also to insupulate fresh air, get peace and quiet and see beautiful colors in our plants. We have an amazing nature, often untouched. Often you need to get away from the everyday stress in the inner city. We must make culture more visible and show its positive effects. It's about being inventive and showing the culture outside the box. Culture is for everyone. Together, we can help each other get away from the pain. Together we work outside our usual and safe areas to find new routines. Together we develop tomorrow's culture in healthcare. Maybe we'll be patients tomorrow. Mr President, I would like to We look up to the elite initiative in sport launched in 2009. We see our children and young people as hope for the future. These are the ones we need to invest in in order to achieve the international competitiveness of the Swedish elite and to get the nation's successful sports stars. Unfortunately, this elite initiative ended in 2012. This is what we want to invest in again with our funding. We also have a reservation regarding the government's special commitment to integration work in sport. We believe that the sports movement cannot and should not assume responsibility for integration. Today's disastrous situation and the situation we find ourselves in is an impossible nut to crack. How will all the people who make it to Sweden be able to integrate? Our solutions are: Close the boundaries and help on site! Go back to assimilation policy, where you quickly learn the language and where you can quickly get your education validated or start studying! Sport cannot possibly take full responsibility. I guess it's a lot of fun if more people want to go to sports. It's amazing, according to us. But if so, spend the money on it and not on integration policies which are demonstrably not working and which have never worked! To conclude, Mr President, I should like to touch briefly on the work of the National Theatre. As a dancer, I know just how tough it is to be a professional in performing arts. You get from employment to employment. Sometimes it's a three-day job, sometimes in a month. You sit up all the time and watch the web for upcoming auditions. They have shorter project contracts. Sometimes you even work for free, or you might get food as a substitute for the day. One is forced to teach, which in turn may put obstacles in the way of longer employment, for example in an upcoming performance in some theater. We want to see a broader and larger work as the National Theatre does. We want to broaden it, simply, so that more people can take part in secure jobs that the Riksteatern offers. This, Mr President, is some of our efforts in the autumn budget.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-1335	Mr President, I would like to I was very puzzled by Angelika Bengtsson's speech, based on the answers that Aron Emilsson previously gave Olof Lavesson to his very legitimate questions regarding the policy of the Swedish Democrats. At that time Aron Emilsson assured us that it is not at all a question of closing the borders completely, but that the Swedish democrats accept some immigration. Angelika Bengtsson now says: No, we will close the borders. Integration doesn't work. And sport cannot take full responsibility for integration. How should sport take full responsibility for integration? Here, Angelika Bengtsson can give an answer. What do the Swedish Democrats mean by saying that sport should take full responsibility for integration? And why do the Swedish Democrats not want the sports movement to help in this work when the sports movement itself tells us that you can actually fill a valuable role here?
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-1338	Mr President, I would like to As far as closing our borders is concerned, we have been quite clear. It is important that quota refugees come here and that the aid is in place. That's where the vast majority of refugees are. That's where help is needed. That's where our money is most useful. Then there was sport and integration. As I said in my speech, it is absolutely amazing if sport can make more people integrated. But it is impossible for sport to take full responsibility. Integration is much greater than sport. It's about learning the Swedish language. It is about learning the customs that we have in Sweden. It's about assimilation in the new country you come to. Just playing sports doesn't give the answers. Sporting does not automatically integrate. I think the Green Party has some work to do there. We propose an assimilation policy. It's worked before. It will work today. Integration policy has not worked. It has shown no result. That is where we are clear about our appropriations.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-1341	Mr President, I would like to First, it is good that Angelika Bengtsson now confirms the image of the Swedish Democrats' politics that Aron Emilsson previously tried to alienate himself from. It is about closing the borders, completely, and not taking responsibility for refugees at all. But then I am still puzzled when Angelika Bengtsson talks about that it is sport that should take full responsibility for integration policy. Of course, the sports movement is a piece of the puzzle in a total policy being conducted. In what way can Angelika Bengtsson argue that the government's policy is that it is the sports movement that should take responsibility for integration policy? That is completely wrong. My final question is: Why do the Swedish democrats say no to initiatives that are about strengthening the sports movement so that it gets the resources that it itself wants to be part of this important work?
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-1344	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the questions. It is about taking responsibility for refugees. We do not take responsibility by taking a long and dangerous road to Sweden. We help the most in their neighborhoods. We are very clear about that. It's all about prioritising. Politics is about prioritising. We give priority to the fact that those who make their way to the country will actually be integrated and assimilated in our country. Our priority is to learn the language in the first place. Then you can start playing sports.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-1346	Mr President, I would like to I got my pulse up now when I listened to the Swedish Democrats and heard about the view on what sport can contribute to. As I said, sport and outdoor life are included in this report. It's something that all of us humans have a relationship with. Many of us may practice sports and engage in outdoor activities. We're audiences. We cheer Sarah Sjöström in swimming and Zlatan in football. We have children who are active and participate in various sports activities, and we follow along and cheer on. We may love some sports more than others, or we may dislike sport because our partner is sitting at the television and does not leave the sporting event. We all have a relationship with sports. I'm sure of it. No matter who we are, we have it. For me, sports and outdoor activities are linked to community, team spirit and competition, to the opportunity to learn the language, to health care and to health. I see here in our country a huge opportunity for our newly arrived friends to get the chance to join this community, to be a member of a team or in an association and in different sports contexts, get into Swedish society and make friends that they can learn the Swedish language from, along with the school they go to. It's an incredible opportunity. If we have a bunch of young people, give them the opportunity to practice sports! Give them a ball and they'll get started. When I've been traveling around the world, including in Africa, I've always bought some presents. One of the gifts is always a football, and it immediately triggers a community and joy of playing. The sports movement offers a fantastic platform for integration. It's about all ages, regardless of gender. The sports movement has also offered itself and is prepared to accept this responsibility, but more resources are needed if they are to complete the mission. I would really like to say this to all parties in this House: to achieve this mission requires more resources! That is why we Social Democrats and the Green Party, with the support of the Left Party, in the government and in here, want to allocate more resources to the sports movement and outdoor life. For 2016, the state provides increased support for sport of 197 million. Of these, 64 million will go to the integration initiative, the possibility of community, the opportunity to make Swedish friends and the opportunity to learn the Swedish language. The government has an ongoing dialogue with the sports movement on the development of the Sports Lift with the new money that we are now making available. We can already see many good projects around the country today. Västerbottens sport association and Smålandssporten have started integration projects to help other sports associations. I would like to take this opportunity to express our thanks to all the associations, associations, leaders and all those who are active in the sports movement who have done and are doing a fantastic job in Sports Sweden for integration, for our young people, for the breadth and for the elite. Thank you very much. Sisu Sport Educators are also very important in their role of bringing up new trained leaders. In addition to all integration projects, we need to train on LGBTQ and gender issues in sport. The sports movement must work to become more equal so that girls and boys, girls and guys, ladies and gentlemen, have the same opportunity for good training times, the same economic conditions and the same opportunity for success. The National Sports Federation has a major and important task to fulfil this. It is therefore with pride that I see that we are providing the means to ensure that we do so. With our proposal, the state contribution to sport amounts to just over 1.9 billion. Not all parties like our proposal to increase the funding. It hurts me to see that you have such big cuts or that you don't bet. The Center Party is leading the league, because they want to pull down the most. We heard earlier that the money is being spent on civil society, but the sports movement may not get the same amount or the Swedish Outdoor Life, of the 20 million that we are proposing. Where will sport get its money for good integration projects when we agree on the importance of this and we agree in the agreement we have reached on integration? Civil society is important, and we have heard many who have spoken well about this. But we cannot see it in the budget. When we look at the figures, we see that it is not a venture, but it is just words – empty words. Outdoor life is also part of this report. We all practice outdoor activities. It can be bikes, walks and so on. We are also doing this because it is good for public health. We agree to bet. The government has added 20 million more to Swedish Outdoor Life. Politics makes a difference! We can see that it makes a difference, because when we look at how we have invested, we see that not all parties support this. But we agree on certain issues. On Thursday, Saila Quicklund from the Moderates and I have a seminar on match fixing. There are major issues within the sports movement that we really need to focus on and work together with. Mr President, I would like to Sport and outdoor life are important ingredients in our daily life. It's joy, it's community and it's future. I am pleased and pleased that we have a wise government and that we have presented such a good and investing budget in these two areas.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-1361	Mr President, I would like to I will not drag this to that point, but I would like to take this opportunity to ask about the gift tax credit. People give. They give out of compassion and empathy. You're happy to be a part of giving. It's better to give than to take. I have very difficult to understand why you are so against this and therefore remove the gift tax deduction, which means that 250 million less comes into these important organisations. Can Agneta Gille give me an answer to that?
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-1363	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for the opportunity to answer that question. I think that when I, my colleagues and my surroundings give, we give from the heart because we want to help, not to get a tax deduction. We give out of solidarity with other people. We give to the Red Cross, we give to Save the Children or to the organization that we feel we want to support. We are doing this for reasons of solidarity, not to take part in a tax subsidy. I do not believe that it is only reduced taxes that should lead to everything. I believe that we will be equally generous even without the possibility of having a reduced tax on the gift. I think we will see the same generosity even after that.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-1366	Mr President, I would like to I had expected a similar answer, for I have heard something similar from the government before. You don't give less with your heart if you have a tax deduction. Now I'm not going to enhance myself, but for a number of years they've given their hearts to different organizations. When the deduction came, no less was given with the heart for it, but what happens is that more funds are added. It's increased significantly. In Norway the increase was 30%, and I think there was something similar here. There is therefore more funding for those organisations that help more people in need, and I do not understand why it is not possible to allow it. I am thinking of organisations such as Doctors Without Borders, Erikshjälpen and others who, of course, can help more individual children and vulnerable people by getting more funds that can be used. It's pretty simple math. That is why I find it difficult to understand why we do not want to help more people through this gift tax deduction that exists throughout Europe. We were actually alone in Sweden about not having it. The Alliance government introduced it, and now it's taken away. Why can't you let more people share more money?
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-1370	Mr President, I would like to We've heard it before! There is always one thing that solves all the problems, namely tax cuts, to get a reduction of something. We heard the Minister of Culture in the former Alliance Government say that the biggest cultural effort was the job tax deduction. Here vulnerable people will receive support thanks to a tax reduction for gifts. I don't believe it. I think we will be equally generous even if there is a change. I believe that the tax revenue we can obtain can be given to the sports movement and outdoor life. It generates work and activities for newly arrived and vulnerable people in society. It is quite clear that we are redeploying, but we are redeploying in a good and solidarity-based way so that more people can benefit from the money.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-1373	Mr President, I would like to Cultural heritage can be a large part of a person's identity. Cultural heritage and natural heritage often go hand in hand, and therefore outdoor life is something that should be highlighted and noticed as this is a large part of Sweden's natural heritage. Nature as part of cultural heritage is important to preserve, nurture and manage for many reasons. Outdoor life plays a significant role in public health and is a tool for managing our natural heritage. The other week I had the great privilege of listening to some of Sweden's nature filmmakers who talked about their commitment and passionate interest in our fantastic nature. The beautiful design and reflection of the wealth of our natural heritage was an important reminder and source of inspiration to me who is passionate about this. Sweden's nature filmmakers also work with children and young people and to arouse their interest and commitment to nature. The nature films carry out a nature and environmental project based on film together with the Swedish Research Foundation and the Swedish National Heritage Fund, and it is based on a network of schools and film groups consisting of young people all over Sweden. The project learns how to use the film as a tool to tell and influence nature and environmental issues. Providing knowledge to children and young people about natural heritage and the current challenges it faces today is important for the future management of cultural heritage and the environment. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish outdoor life has incredible assets to offer if you take them to each in the best way. But despite the opportunities offered by outdoor life through, among other things, the right of public access increases sedentary sitting, not least among children and young people. An increasing number of schools today offer an outdoor profile for their students. Being able to choose an outdoor profile during their training is positive in many different ways and can, among other things, contribute to a more varied teaching, outdoor pedagogy and better learning. It also contributes to better health among our children and young people through increased movement and fresh air, as a complement to sports at school. It can be about easily accessible activities such as just being together in nature, i.e. activities that do not require expensive equipment, great prior knowledge or performance requirements. In view of this, it is desirable that even more schools should be given the opportunity to offer this to their pupils. Friluftsfrämjandet strives for an outdoor life accessible to everyone, with a clear agenda on issues such as children's health, the outdoor environment and the right of public access. Children's activities are broad and varied, for all ages and with different degrees of experience. The aim is for children to discover nature and all its adventures at their own pace and on their own terms. Another organisation that performs an important function is the Swedish Tourist Association with its more than 255 000 members. Founded in 1885, STF has been working for nature, the environment, tourism and giving people experiences based on natural and cultural tourism from the northernmost north to the southernmost south. Mr President, I would like to Our nature is one of the finest things we have, and it is our duty to preserve, nurture and manage it for future generations. Our natural and cultural heritage is not only inherited by previous generations, but also borrowed from our children. With this in mind, the Swedish Democrats propose an increase of SEK 65 million, of which SEK 5 million is set aside with the intention to allow outdoor organisations to step up their efforts to raise awareness among citizens – especially children and young people – and their understanding and care for Swedish nature and the Swedish intangible cultural heritage related to nature.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-1383	Mr President, I would like to Many things have been said from the speaker's seat tonight that I am tempted to oppose. I will try not to do that and instead start my speech by summarising some of the things that have been said by my fellow party members this evening. The cooperation government's budget prioritises the three key elements of jobs, school and climate. In addition, the cooperation government also prioritises increasing people's freedom by investing strongly in what we feel is well-being. The budget also includes broad efforts to speed up and streamline the establishment of newcomers in Swedish society. An important part of the government's budget is the education of the population, and I would therefore like to dwell for a moment on matters of education. Folkbildning in Sweden is a broad arena for education, education and participation. In this way, it is a very important building block in Swedish democracy. Folkbildning houses and stimulates democratic dialogue and participation in democracy, but it is also an important arena for culture. Every year, millions of people participate in activities organised by peoples' education. Every year thousands of people get new opportunities to move on in life thanks to the formation of people – from Kiruna in the north to Trelleborg and to the middle of Södermalm. Folk education is important for culture. People get to participate in culture and practice culture through study associations and folk high schools. In most of the study associations, cultural activities are the largest. The aesthetic courses of folk high schools allow 5,000 people to improve in culture. We Social Democrats have understood that peoples' education is uniquely important for bridging social divides, and it is against that fund, Mr President, that the Social Democrats and the cooperation government we lead invest precisely in peoples' education when we want to make a leap in knowledge throughout the country. It is against this fund that we want peoples' education to be involved in the work of supporting and accelerating the establishment of new arrivals in Swedish society. This is why the public education is already being added SEK 75 million in the extra than budget presented by the government for 2015. Mr President, I would like to To strengthen the freedom of each individual, to meet the labour needs of the business community and the public, to bring groups that are far from the labour market closer to the same and to improve new arrivals' opportunities for rapid establishment, the government is about to bring Sweden into a new knowledge boost. A never-so-important part of the new knowledge boost is folk high schools. Part of the mission of folk high schools is to provide a greater diversity of people with access to education and education, thereby closing educational gaps. The methodology of folk high schools can provide support and incentives that many of the low educational groups that are far from the labour market need. At folk high schools there is a long experience of meeting the needs of people who have not completed their education in the regular education system, but there is also experience of meeting people with different language backgrounds and people with disabilities. In order to meet the needs of individuals and society of educational efforts, we suggest that the resources of folk high schools be increased by over SEK 300 million. Most of the initiative is about expanding the number of places on the general course, but the funds will also be available for places on special courses, study motivation and vocational courses, i.e. the new training paths to work that Aida Hadzialic talked about earlier. In addition, the government sees the growing need for contact interpreters. It is far more than doubling the means of adult education to provide training for contact interpreters. This initiative will enable folk high schools to offer 7,000 new training places in 2016 for people who are currently far from the labour market. Over 7 000 more people are given the opportunity to get the education they need to get out of passivity, feel more freedom and influence their own lives. Madam President, I would like It is absolutely essential that the people who now come to Sweden get the very best conditions to quickly establish themselves in society and build a life in Sweden. Then language is the most important thing. Therefore, the government ensures that the new arrivals' second language learning and social orientation can start already the first day of asylum accommodation. We are talking about 40 000 participants before the supplementary amending budget. According to figures highlighted in November, ABF already has 27 000 participants in introduction efforts for new arrivals. The projection made by the Folkbildningsförbundet at the same time was that more than 40 000 new arrivals will have participated in this activity before the end of the year. 40 000 people are dramatically better placed to establish themselves and be included in Swedish society. These are efforts that the Swedish Democrats are rejecting. Well, I guess that's to be expected. More surprisingly, the Moderates and the Center Party are also opposed to this kind of faster establishment. Resistance is particularly surprising because we live in times when it is more urgent than ever to speed up the establishment of new arrivals. But it should be added that the Moderates and the Center Party should have all the credit for supporting the 75 million in the supplementary amending budget that I spoke of earlier. All credit for that! The fastest possible learning Swedish is crucial for the opportunities to train and get jobs in Sweden. The system that has been in place until last autumn, in which new arrivals have been denied access to language learning because they have not yet been informed of their application for asylum, cannot be allowed to continue. Therefore, we permanently invest from our amending budget and allocate SEK 50 million in 2016 to enable the study associations to arrange for second language learning and the acquisition of knowledge about Swedish society to start already at asylum housing, already the first day in Sweden. It is investing in people, it is taking advantage of human resources and that, Madam President, is building Sweden strong.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-1401	Madam President, I would like Today we are going to debate the JuU7 report Preventing, Preventing and Obstructing – the Swedish Counter-Terrorism Strategy. I shall begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected. Madam President, I would like After the recent terrible events in Turkey, Egypt, Lebanon and France and with everything that happens almost every day in Iraq, Syria, Libya, Yemen, Nigeria and Mali, we have once again become aware of the terrible plans that terrorists can launch. They murder innocent people – children like women, Muslims like non-Muslims. They blow up churches and mosques. They rape women because they believe it is their right to do so. They use children as suicide bombers. But unlike many other murderers, the terrorists also beat our democracy, and they hate the open and free society. That is why we must defend our democratic values and fight back against terrorism, fascism and racism by working on a broad front. The basis of all extremism and terrorism, as well as of almost any other crime, is mostly social. It is therefore important that we work both nationally and internationally to prevent extremism from developing and flourishing. Lack of democracy, respect for human rights, welfare and equality before the law and the feeling of powerlessness can be a breeding ground for radicalisation. If so, this is nothing unique to countries governed by dictatorships with medieval norms and values. Discrimination, racialism and major social divides are a reality even in Western democracies. Madam President, I would like We live at a time when religious extremist groups such as Daish, Boko Haram and other extreme groups are growing in the Middle East and North Africa. But we are also seeing a growing racism and fascism on the rise in Europe. Extremism is dangerous regardless of whether it is religious or nationalistic or racist. The radicalisation we see in our society, especially the growing xenophobia and racism, is essentially the same. What has happened in our country in recent years is very worrying. Peter Mangs from Malmö was not a member of Al-Qaeda. He walked around Malmö and shot innocent people with immigrant background. He admitted that the motive was racist. The 21-year-old Anton Lundin from Trollhättan was not a supporter of IS. He killed a young student and two teachers. He chose his victims according to their skin color. Even his motives were racist. For me, terrorism has no nations or identities. It is based on religions and ethnic groups. Whether based on religious beliefs or racist ideologies, the foundation is the same. It's very troubling. An important part of the prevention of radicalisation must be to reduce the willingness of individuals or groups to commit or support terrorist activities. My basic idea is that under normal circumstances very few people choose to become criminals or violent extremists. However, too many people feel that they are not a desirable part of society and therefore choose to turn away from it in different ways. For years, the development of our society for too many groups has gone in the wrong direction. I can only mention the increased gaps in society where inequality has increased. Madam President, I would like In the new strategy against terrorism, the government clearly states how terrorism and violent extremism should be combated. It is about preventing, preventing and making things more difficult. The aim of the strategy is to identify and develop knowledge-based methods and measures to prevent radicalisation, violent extremism and terrorism. The key to successful prevention is effective collaboration between relevant authorities and organisations. In the preventive work, the government is clear that cooperation between the Police Authority and municipal actors is important in preventing extremism and terrorism. The Government intends to develop local crime prevention work by, among other things, strengthening national coordination efforts in 25 areas. The Government also states that Brå will be tasked with analysing the areas in which there is a need for strengthened support and proposing how a national support and coordination function can be constructed at the agency. We must make use of existing knowledge and working methods, but we must also create and develop new methods of prevention. The National Coordinator is intensifying his work through a strategic action plan setting up a knowledge centre to protect democracy against violent environments. At the beginning of next year, it will set up a knowledge centre in four municipalities: Stockholm, Gothenburg, Örebro and Borlänge. In these centres of knowledge, municipal expertise is to be gathered, and there is coordination responsibility for meeting more effectively the challenges of working against violent extremism. Madam President, I would like In order to prevent and reduce the ability and ability to carry out terrorist attacks, law enforcement authorities must have legally secure tools. It is important to have access to information about activities in violent environments. Therefore, the government wants to work towards more efficient data exchange within the NCT. It's under investigation. Secret data reading as a new coercive agent will be investigated. Criminalisation of terrorist travel and financing of terrorism is a priority, and a bill is planned before Christmas. The regulation shall enter into force as soon as possible. On these issues, many of us sitting here largely agree, and there is also a negotiation between the government, the alliance parties and the Left Party. I believe that the negotiations are conducted in a good spirit with a common understanding in most areas of the fight against terrorism. Therefore, I am surprised that the Alliance, supported by the Swedish Democrats, is making two announcements on issues that the government is already working on and where the priority is high. So I wonder what is the purpose of the announcement on the criminalisation of terrorist travel when we agree on most things and negotiations are also ongoing. I have every respect for the role of the opposition, but on this issue we should be in agreement. I can't find another expression of it except that it's a little unserious. With regard to the Second Notice on Counter-Terrorism Cooperation in the EU, the Government's ambition is to use existing international channels for cooperation in the fight against terrorism. Within the EU, for example, Europol has started work on pooling its various competences in the fight against terrorism in a dedicated department, the EU Terrorism Centre, to further support Member States in this area. I think our government's ambition in EU cooperation against terrorism is very good. Madam President, I would like When it comes to defending, creating and maintaining protection for individuals and reducing society's vulnerability to terrorist attacks, the government is working on several concrete areas. It concerns the criminalisation of primary weapons offences, the review of whether hand grenades and certain other goods referred to in the Law on Flammable and Explosive Goods should be covered by the so-called Internal Borders Act, the introduction of mandatory cyber-incident reporting obligations for state authorities and the prevention of the misuse of passports. The Government also wants the National Task Force to be able to request support from foreign intervention forces with the support of the Atlas Council Decision and Important Communication to the public via mobile telephony. With this strategy, the Government wants to create a broad platform for Sweden's long-term work against terrorism and all forms of violent extremism. The whole of society must work against the root causes of terrorism and racism. Not least in those political parties which believe in the equal value of all, we must show a united front in order to defend the democratic values in which we believe.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-1421	Madam President, I would like The Government has presented a new national strategy against terrorism, which will be the starting point for Sweden's long-term work in this area, both nationally and internationally. The aim is said to be to create a clear structure for the work needed to combat terrorist crime. It is good that the government is proposing measures in the right direction in the fight against terrorism, but that is not enough. It's gonna take more. Madam President, I would like Late last night I came home from Paris, where I attended a conference in the framework of the climate summit. For this reason, I had the opportunity to form an idea of the atmosphere in Paris after the recent terrorist attacks. What may not have been clear is that the acts of terrorism involved shootings and explosions in six places in central Paris and in the suburb of Saint-Denis on 13 and 14 November. The number of deaths after the attacks varies slightly, but one task is 129 dead, of which 89 at Le Bataclan during a concert, which for natural reasons was the most noted individual act. In addition to the large number of deaths, 433 people were hospitalized for their injuries, and 80 of them were seriously injured. On Saturday night, I had the privilege of being able to sit outside in a café in Paris where I spoke with a couple of Parisians. They said they felt discomfort and insecurity in a different way than before after the recent terrorist attacks. The motives for the attack on Charlie Hebdo went in some way to understand rationally while the attacks on completely innocent people meant that somehow everyone's security was torn away. They said that almost everyone had one or more friends or acquaintances who fell victim to the terrorists. They had themselves lost several friends. Terrorism is not a new phenomenon, but a tried and tested method of imposing one's own will on people. Most brutal and bloody, terrorism has often been used by regimes as a means of oppressing its own citizens. During the 1960s and 1970s, civilian targets for terrorist attacks became more common, although the attacks were usually limited to an enemy. Most of the then active groups were secular, and many of them were strongly violent: the Red Army faction in West Germany, the RAF, the Red Brigades in Italy, the Basque ETA in Spain, the Irish Republican army n, the IRA, the Palestinian PFLP, the Black September, Abu Nidal, Sendero Luminoso in Peru, the Japanese Red Army and extreme Sikh groups in India, to name a few. Today's terrorism is largely made up of international, violence's promoting networks where there is generally an underlying purpose of a religious and at least partly political nature. Islamist al-Qaeda has long been the prime example of such a network. The attacks on the World Trade Center and the American Defence Headquarters in 2001 showed that terrorism had adopted a new form. The attacks were large-scale, coordinated and advanced. With religious motives, thousands of people were killed. Al Qaeda became a new kind of terrorist movement with a goal and a network that was not tied to a state. In addition, like other terrorist movements, its supporters were prepared to kill their enemies by suicide attacks. Today, the most prominent terrorist organisations are Islamic states in Syria and the Levant, ISIL or Daish, and possibly Boko Haram in Nigeria. What distinguishes Daish from other terrorist organisations is that it has a territory. In the summer of 2014, a caliphate was proclaimed in Iraq and Syria. Madam President, I would like No matter how terrorism has been expressed through various organisations and by various acts of terrorism over time, the recent acts of terrorism in Paris very clearly illustrate what the terrorist's aims are and how ruthless terrorism can be to the innocent. Terrorism must therefore be fought consistently and vigorously. To return to the government's strategy, I would like to start with the word, 'prevention', which is also in the title. In particular, the government has emphasised that prevention is the focus. Nevertheless, few concrete measures are presented that can effectively counter radicalisation. Instead, reference is made to general measures and statements on the need for interaction without taking into account the specific challenges of preventing and countering radicalisation and violent extremism. Knowledge of what can trigger processes leading to radicalisation must be increased so that signs of radicalisation can be detected at an early stage. We also believe that it is important to strengthen drop-outs and crime prevention in municipalities. We have a firm view that prevention in the broader sense, and in particular the work to combat radicalisation, must be put into practice and that the government should develop an action plan for this work, which clearly shows who is responsible for what action is being taken. Prevention must simply become more structured and focus more clearly on radicalisation. Madam President, I would like Sweden is not an isolated island or paradise on earth, although many would like it to be so. The threat to Sweden can be considered essentially the same as against most other EU countries. If we are to try, perhaps a little more than before, to try to protect ourselves from terrorist threats and crime, the Security Service must be given the tools necessary to carry out its tasks. The world and the world around us are changing, not least because of technological developments, and we must keep up if we are to protect ourselves at an acceptable level. When, for example, criminalisation of travellers to engage in combat or weapons training for terrorist-stamped organisations is introduced, the Security Service must have reasonable possibilities to secure evidence. If this is not possible in practice, the legislation will be ineffective. The security police should therefore have access to secret data reading, which means the possibility of reading encrypted data traffic, in order to secure evidence against persons guilty of terrorism-related crime. I would also like to emphasise in particular that new powers with regard to secret coercive measures should be designed so that all procedural safeguards can be met. This requires adequate control and follow-up mechanisms and takes into account the personal integrity of people. Another part that already exists as an important tool in the Security Service's intelligence work against terrorism is signal intelligence. However, this signal scan must not be carried out at the same time as the investigation is under way. With new legislation in place that criminalises terrorist travel, the Security Service will launch more preliminary investigations against suspected individuals who are in other countries. This must not lead to restrictions and difficulties in the ability of the Security Service to conduct intelligence activities through signal reconnaissance. It is also important that evidence can be secured so that persons can be prosecuted for the crimes committed. We therefore want the Security Service to have access to information from signal intelligence during pre-trial investigation, also in order to secure evidence against persons guilty of terrorism-related crime and war crimes. It is not only the Security Service that must have sufficient ability. Sweden must also have its own and sufficient operational capacity and preparedness to intervene against terrorists without being dependent on assistance from other countries. In the strategy, the government points to resources from the police regions as an extension of the work of the National Task Force. In addition, the Government emphasises that Sweden should, if necessary, be able to obtain support from the corresponding forces from other EU countries within the framework of the so-called Atlas cooperation. We believe that, first and foremost, an upgrade of our national capabilities is needed. National input power has unique competence but limited operational capability in a national perspective. Therefore, the numeral of the National Task Force should be increased and hence its operational capacity to respond to terrorist attacks in several geographical locations at the same time. I would also like to point out, as a matter of urgency, other elements of a consistent moderate anti-terrorism policy. The Swedish Economic Crime Authority and the Swedish Tax Agency should be given a special mandate to investigate the financing of terrorism. The International Public Prosecutor's Office in Stockholm must have sufficient qualified investigators to investigate terrorism-related crime and war crimes. The handling of Swedish passports needs to be tightened up in several different respects. Madam President, I would like The committee's report proposes two announcements, on the one hand concerning the criminalisation of terrorist travel and, on the other hand, international cooperation against terrorism aimed at cooperation within the EU. I naturally support the committee's proposals in these parts. Like the previous speaker, I call for reservations 5 and 29 both from S, MP and V to be rejected. We stand by all our reservations, but I still choose not to vote in favour of everyone. I ask for the approval of reservation 1 on prevention, reservation 3 on counter-radicalisation, reservation 11 on secret data reading, resurveillance 13 on signalling, reservation 18 on passport measures to prevent travel and, finally, reservation 24 on the National Task Force.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-1444	Madam President, I would like The spokesperson of the Social Democrats raised a list of terrorist attacks and talked about racism. These are terrible things that have happened. But he forgot one thing, the Ikea murders. It was also racist murders by a newly arrived immigrant against Swedes because they were Swedes. First of all, he can add that to his list. Madam President, I would like We support our reservations. But for time winning, I only plead for reservations 4 and 22. To this letter we added a follow-up motion with eight different claims related to the fight against terrorism. Some of them are dealt with in this report, including those raised in reservations 4 and 22. One of the proposals is about banning propaganda for terrorism. Today, it is criminalised to call on people to commit terrorist offences or, for that matter, other crimes. What we are proposing here is to criminalise propaganda for terrorist organisations and their activities. Australia has such an enlargement that one can look at to investigate the issue. There, what they call advocacy of terrorism was banned. According to the Australian example, the perpetrator does not necessarily have a direct intention of committing terrorist crimes, but, for example, negligence is sufficient in that case. In Germany, the German Government is giving the opportunity to ban terrorist organisations, to ban the use of symbols of certain organisations and so on. That is the way we think we should look in Sweden to ban propaganda for terrorism, which is an extension for this purpose. This must, of course, be investigated unconditionally and carefully, but we want to see something like that. We want to punish any form of participation in or support for terrorist organisations. This is not only the case if you have actively committed acts of terrorism, but it may involve indirect support, for example if you help terrorist organisations with medicines, medical assistance or something else to facilitate the organisation of terrorism. There are examples in the UK that prohibit the membership or support of terrorist organisations. We have examples from Germany that make it criminal to form, be a member of or support an organisation. Moreover, this applies in principle to any such activity. There are international examples which once again show the direction in which we think we should go in this regard too. We believe that the penalties for terrorist offences should be tightened. Now the minimum level of the law is set by a penalty that is a higher minimum penalty, but we believe that the penalties need to be reviewed anyway. It should be able to render real life sentences in the worst cases. It should therefore be real life sentences, not those where you come out after an average of 16 years, or what it is, as you usually do in Sweden today. We are, like the Moderates, in favour of clandestine data interception, which is included in the report, as well as signal detection in preliminary investigations. We want to remove confidentiality barriers to intelligence activities in various authorities, which have also been discussed in the letter, among other things, although it was not in very concrete terms. We allocate more resources to the judiciary – far more than any of the other seven parties do. This applies to the police, as we know there is a shortage of resources, and of course also to the security police. We have a proposal to deprive terrorists of their citizenship. That is something we put forward last year. None of the other parties supports us in this. Actually, I'm not really really surprised. However, one might wonder why. Why do the other parties in any way want to keep, in this case, terrorists in the country? We have had similar discussions in the Committee on Justice over the years, not least during the last parliamentary term, on the issue of expulsion. To my continued astonishment, it is still the case that both the Alliance and the Red-greens go out and feverishly defend that murderers and rapists should stay in the country, as is happening all too often in Sweden today. I received fairly recent statistics from the Parliamentary Investigation Service – I think it was even from this year – which shows that only 20% of those who are the subject of expulsion or who can be the subject of expulsion are expelled from Sweden today when they commit crimes. Nor did that legislation, with regard to the law on special immigration control, the Aliens Act or whatever it may be, have any interest in tightening up. So is this, too, when we want to take citizenship in from terrorists. We want to be able to take citizenship if you have dual citizenship, but we also want to investigate the possibility of doing so even if someone has only one citizenship – the Swedish. Britain, again, introduced similar legislation in 2014, I think it was. One should simply be able to make someone stateless. When we put this question to Morgan Johansson just a few weeks ago– it was my colleague Adam Marttinen who did – he said he absolutely wanted to keep the terrorists as Swedish citizens. The reason was that he felt that citizenship was important. He also meant a proper trial. Yes, you heard me right! After this so-called test, as Morgan Johansson claims, you can see whether the person granted a citizenship can live up to the obligations that follow. It's a big joke. The whole explanatory statement was pretty twisted. On the one hand, you now get citizenship with the breakfast cereal, and on the other hand, there has been no real trial in the event that a terrorist has been granted citizenship. It won't hold. Others argue that it is not possible to do what we want, including making someone stateless and withdrawing citizenship. But it's just the usual bite that it doesn't go until it does. I know that many, if not all, of the other seven parties said exactly the same thing when we year in and year in talked about that we wanted to reduce volumes and close the limits. Then it was impossible. It violated conventions, and it was practically impossible. There was always something that was in the way of doing what you are doing now that you have adopted our policy. It wasn't at all long ago that this was impossible and up in the blue when we said it. And now you stand here and do it anyway. In fact, nothing is impossible. We can do whatever we want, as long as we choose to do it. You choose not to. You think it is a better order to keep them as our citizens. The Swedish Democrats do not think so, and I can honestly say that I do not believe that very large parts of the Swedish population agree with you. With our legislative proposals, it would be illegal with terrorist travel and illegal to help such groupings even if it is not direct help in terrorist actions. We want real life sentences. With our laws, a person would, in the event of suspicion, be detained, investigated and convicted, whereupon he would lose his citizen's power, risk life imprisonment and then be expelled to serve the sentence in his home country or in third countries. That is the short version of what would happen to the rules of the Swedish Democrats – quite proper consequences, in other words. The report also contains two announcements. One of them is about criminalizing the terrorist voyages. We had it as a proposal in our follow-up motion, although we want to go further, as I have just mentioned. However, in order to form a majority in committee, we agreed to the Alliance-wide reservation precisely in order to obtain a majority. Instead, we have a specific opinion explaining it.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-1461	Madam President, I would like In recent weeks, the issue of combating terrorism has been present in a way in our lives that we all wish we had not been able to do. We have seen how hundreds of people have been personally affected, murdered or lost relatives in terrible acts of terror that have shaken communities in the ground. As my colleague Arhe Hamednaca mentioned, terrorism is not just a murderous act like any other. It is basically a question of overthrowing the fundamental values and order of society. It is a threat to human rights and democracy. The coordinated attacks in Paris, France, are an unpleasant sign of the reality with which we must all reconcile ourselves. The understanding that even a country with a large security service with very far-reaching powers cannot protect itself against this type of coordinated attack is something we must live with. No matter how well we prepare ourselves, prevent and make things difficult, there is no guarantee that something similar could not happen here too, Sweden. Madam President, I would like This does not mean that we should not act against terrorism in all the ways that are effective and in line with human rights and the democratic principles that we want to protect against terrorism. I welcome the national strategy presented by the government this summer, which we now have to take a position on here in Parliament. Unlike some of the proposals put forward by the previous speaker, the strategy is precisely about doing what is effective – what can actually play a role without going into and restricting fundamental human rights to citizenship or, for that matter, introducing inefficient mass monitoring. Nor is it about Sweden lifting its hands from responsibility and allowing other countries to deal with all terrorists by shutting them out that we should bring to justice. On the contrary, it is about the judicial system being given the tools to bring those who have committed terrorist crimes abroad to justice. Sweden's new strategy against terrorism has been named Preventing, preventing and making things more difficult. The area specifically developed in this strategy is the first, the area of prevention. There has been a lot of talk lately about whether Sweden has been naive or not. If I would like to point out in particular any point where we have been, it is in terms of prevention. In too many parts of the country, municipalities and other actors have not seen what was happening. Young people have been radicalized and left Sweden to fight with various terrorist groups in Syria and Iraq. Of these, some forty have already perished in the fighting. Some have returned to Sweden, and many are still there. We don't know how many people are about to be radicalized. Thankfully, most municipalities, thanks to the national coordinator against violent extremism, have now started preventive work. Even this problem of people travelling to fight abroad is an issue that was addressed quite sparingly in the previous strategy, which was developed as late as 2011. It shows the need for this update. Madam President, I would like Sometimes my impression of the broader debate on terrorism is that prevention is opposed to repression. My simple reflection on this point is that society must do both. This issue is far too important to be simplified into simple rhetoric. We must ensure that we do what we can even when it means working preventively or with drop-outs of various kinds so that those who otherwise risk joining terrorist organisations or committing terrorist crimes do not do so. Some of the preventive measures put forward in the strategy concern the strengthening of coordination of local crime prevention and the exploitation and development of knowledge about what measures are effective in preventing terrorism and preventing radicalisation of young people in particular. It is also about awareness-raising efforts aimed at the judiciary and a mission to the Prison Service to develop its work against radicalisation and violent extremism. Madam President, I would like The part of the prevention strategy focuses, among other things, on legislation relating to terrorist offences, but also on measures to prevent the financing of terrorism in ways other than only through legislation. This concerns the proposal for a new criminalisation that the government will shortly present at Parliament's table in order to ensure that Swedish law is consistent with UN Resolution 2178 on the criminalisation of travel abroad for the purpose of carrying out, planning and preparing terrorist offences or participating in terrorist training. The opposition has agreed that the Riksdag should make an announcement to the government on this matter. As the Council of Law referral has already been decided and the government has promised a bill before Christmas, I see no need to make such an announcement. Madam President, I would like Difficulty is not least about doing what we can to protect people by making it as difficult as possible to succeed in large-scale attacks. This is where arms regulation is particularly central. For example, the possibility of controlling weapons and other instruments that can be used in the event of terrorism at the EU's external border, as well as a better EU internal common regulation of deactivated weapons throughout the Union, are two key proposals. It will simply be much more difficult to deal with illegal weapons within the EU and in Sweden. To achieve this, there is a need for increased criminalisation in some parts, for example in the case of first-line weapons offences. There are also ongoing discussions within the European Union on what kind of weapons should be legally available to private individuals at all. That's very good. In order to make terrorist offences more difficult effectively, active work is also required with risk and vulnerability analyses as well as improved preparedness in the field of information and cyber security. I do not have time to go into all the measures in this rather comprehensive, albeit concise, strategy, but it also concerns the police's ability to stop terrorist attacks and society's ability to deal with the consequences in the event of an attack. All areas are also dealt with from an international perspective, not least in the EU but also in the UN. Since the government has clear ambitions in this area, there is no need for an announcement. Finally, I would like to support the report, which supports the government's national anti-terrorism strategy. For time to come, I will not insist that we have any vote, although I naturally maintain in substance that any further announcements under the proposal are not needed.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-1479	Madam President, I would like As I said in my speech, it is positive that the government is taking steps in the right direction and has ambitions. We have this in a number of different areas, but we must also have the ability to do so. There are those who say that politics is to want and dare. I would like to say that politics is more to be able and delivered, because it is what is being achieved in reality that counts. Annika Hirvonen Falk says that we must do what we can to combat terrorism and prevent people from getting hurt in the way that has happened in Paris and many other places in the world. Annika Hirvonen Falk also welcomes the legislation that is to come regarding terrorist travel. If we are going to do what we can, my question is what Annika Hirvonen Falk wants to do about the fact that the Swedish Security Service's possibilities for signal reconnaissance will be curtailed due to increased criminalisation. Does that mean that we are doing what we can to counter terrorism?
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-1482	Madam President, I would like As I said in my speech, it is about doing what we can within the framework of, among other things, human rights and important democratic principles. One such principle is the protection of the personal integrity of individuals. When trespassing on personal integrity, it must be done for a democratically acceptable purpose, but it must also be done with methods that are proportionate and effective. I do not believe that extended mass monitoring by increasing the powers of signal scouting is one of the methods that is proportionate and effective in this context. What is being proposed, however, is a review of the targeted secret coercive measures which, in a much more accurate and less integrity-deserving way for the masses, can achieve investigative results. With regard to the ability of the Security Service to prevent, it should be noted that these proposals also bring a number of advantages and that despite the opposition raised by the Moderates, the proposal is still in favour of the Security Service. This leads me to feel confident that we will continue to have good preventive work in that area.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-1485	Madam President, I would like I doubt that Annika Hirvonen Falk, for example, has read the Swedish Security Service's referrals regarding the investigation of terrorist travel, because the answer here is some form of for me incomprehensible nonsense about human rights. It is clear that human rights should apply, but is it human rights for those to whom the search terms should be directed that it should be about? In some cases, it is also possible to target search terms at individuals. The Swedish system has then been said by legal scientists to be one of the best, perhaps the best in the world together with the German-American system nowadays. Is this mass surveillance? Is it not true to focus search concepts on various phenomena? Madam President, I would like I don't understand what Annika Hirvonen Falk means. I find it difficult to understand that limiting the ability of the Security Service to obtain intelligence means doing what we can to combat terrorism when it is due to a criminalisation that we want to see, but when the consequence is that the Security Service receives less intelligence information. Or is it a human right to commit a number of different crimes that prevent one from being so-called mass supervised? We need to create effective tools in different ways to protect ourselves against terrorism. If new legislation is introduced, which limits the possibility of doing what has been done in the past, we must consider whether it is desirable. From the answer, there is no such answer.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-1490	Madam President, I would like It is precisely the assessment of whether it is desirable that the Security Service has also done so. And the answer was yes. The answer was yes, although it may be suspected that it might have that effect. But let us remember that it may have that effect because of the opening of a preliminary investigation. The Swedish system has the principle of legal certainty that things that may not be included in the preliminary investigation, such as secret intelligence activities, should not be allowed to be carried out during the preliminary investigation. Instead, at that stage, the Security Service has access to the targeted secret coercive measures where a review will also begin now. These are the principles I think are important to uphold. When you are faced with a heated discussion on a subject that affects many, which frightens many, there is always a risk that you want to resort to measures that may be premature. It is possible that the Moderates would have had this view anyway. In the past, however, all parties have fully agreed that there should be a dividing line between the criminal investigation investigations and the kind of secret intelligence activity that can hit everyone, regardless. The Green Party believes that it is important to preserve this process.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-1494	Madam President, I would like It's a regular Friday night. Thousands of people go out to dinner, go to a movie or a concert. The week is over, and the weekend is in front of you. Perhaps you should practice, enjoy a weekend with family, pets or friends or just look forward to a proper sleeping morning. But for a number of people, life never becomes the same. For a number it ends completely. It is today 24 days since men with guns and a twisted view of their religion opened fire on these people. They created chaos, the indescribable sorrow of those who were left behind, the fear and fear of large parts of the world's population and suspicions of people who were guilty of nothing but fleeing war and misery. But they also brought courage to people who did not yet know that they were courageous and close to people who did not know each other. Terror must be taken very seriously. The events in Paris were not the first time that Europe was hit. In the 20th century, Europe was plagued by terrorism, for example, from separatists in Northern Ireland and the Basque Country, from religious sects and from left- and right-wing movements. Towards the mid-1990s, terror culminated, and the number of deaths per year was more than ever. But towards the end of the 1990s there was a decline in the scale of terror. Then, when the world began to feel calmer in many places, the picture of terrorism changed completely. Nearly 3 000 people died, 6 200 people were injured and aircraft, buildings, neighbourhoods and infrastructure were destroyed. It was September 11, 2001. There are a number of theories as to why Islamic terror is growing. It is about everything from exclusion to racism, from distorted religious views to the anger of frustrated young men, from ideology to belief in doomsday or a new kingdom of happiness. All that is really required for terrorism is that someone or some are passionate about an idea and that they see violence as a reasonable means of putting it into practice. Madam President, I would like For me as a center party, the individual is most important. It is the individual who, together with other individuals, builds our society. The freedom to build one's own life, to think and think as one wishes and to express it, without the state interfering or looking over our shoulder, is fundamental. The liberal basic idea is that everyone should have as much freedom as possible to live their lives at their discretion, as long as this freedom does not restrict anyone else's freedom to do the same. When such a restriction of freedom is suspected, or is to take place, society must act in accordance with the rules of law that we jointly set in democratic order. In the case of serious violations of people's freedom, such as serious crimes and terrorism, the means that society makes available are also more powerful. It is of the utmost importance that these funds be restricted, regulated and controlled in such a way as to maintain the balance between the important social values which stand against each other here. At its best, legislation is useful for a long time and is based on technology-neutral positions. Today we see a need to strengthen the judicial system's ability to carry out effective work. But in times such as these, when troubled people are demanding us politicians to do something to prevent new attacks, we as legislators must keep calm and balanced. In eagerness to show action, it is easy to run away and propose a variety of measures that sound powerful but that we might not have proposed otherwise. We shall make laws that protect our safety and security, but we must keep ourselves in the neck skin in order not to rush along with measures that are at best ineffective and, at worst, counterproductive. Just as wrong as making it difficult for law-abiding citizens to possess legal weapons for hunting or sporting purposes, on the grounds of the threat of terror, it is to want to close the borders of anyone who simply wants to live in peace and freedom. We're gonna have a tough hold on terrorists. But we're not going to make life miserable, difficult, and at worst short for everyone else. Security begins in the local community. That is where crime prevention is best done, that is where everyday crimes can be solved and that is where trust in the judiciary is built from the ground up. It is in the local community that the small heroics are visible. There people of different origins who believe in different gods or none at all thrive and help each other in small and large. It can be simple practical things, and it can be the most serious of serious ones. It could be when a policeman dies in the line of duty, trying to protect the country he came to as a child and calls his, against the terrorist attack on Charlie Hebdo and when a waiter in a neighboring restaurant saves the lives of two women during the terrorist attacks in Paris a few weeks ago. There are a few examples of a long series of heroic efforts that together still give a glimmer of hope. It is the kind of actions that strengthen the tickle of our society – the tick that connects and builds bridges, the tick that is blended with heroism and humanity, the tick that the extremists hate and that stands in the way of their will to divide and polarize. Just no matter how many tools we create for our authorities, so that they can protect us from terrorism and other crime, and quite regardless of whether we should put up surveillance cameras everywhere and have secret data readings in every computer in the country, we are always dependent on a functioning police force. Every single policeman must feel that he or she has the opportunity to do a good job. That is not really the case today, and we have to do something about that. That is a point to which we have reason to return, not least in next week's budget debate and perhaps on more occasions. Madam President, I would like Going off to fight with a terrorist organisation must be punished. Of course, funding and recruitment for terrorist travel must also be penalised. I think there's more we can do. There are sometimes reports in the media that public funds have gone to organisations that spread violent and anti-democratic messages. There is probably also a great number of darkness that is never revealed. I say as the Prime Minister so elegantly puts it: It's not okay! No public funds should go to associations, religious communities or other associations that spread violent or anti-democratic messages. Of course, you can think what you want. As long as you don't get into ethnic groups, you can even say that. But the public should not be involved in supporting this activity. The regulatory framework needs to be tightened up and to link a clear responsibility to the person seeking funds. The Center Party also wants to review the possibility of amending the law so that the consent of guardians is required for minors' travel abroad. Of course, such legislation should not focus on children and young people who, for example, are going to Åland on a school trip, but on young people who are at risk of going to commit terrorist crimes. Europe has shown itself so infinitely brave after all the attacks. Although grief is great and fear is justified, we are not left to be chastised by the apostles of darkness. But what scares me most is that there are political movements that exploit these vile deeds, who try to scare people up and set groups against groups. Some are certainly a consequence of being unreflected, while others are part of the underlying idea. Let us punish those who violate our laws, those who use terror as a weapon against our freedom and those who incite violence against democracy. Let us punish them hard. But at the same time, let us protect our freedom. As Benjamin Franklin put it: A society that gives up some freedom to get some security neither deserves nor and loses both.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-1517	Madam President, I would like The report we are now debating deals with a letter from the Government dealing with combating terrorist offences and combating terrorism in Sweden. The Left Party is fundamentally in favour of the letter. We think there are a lot of good things in it that should be highlighted. But I would also like to point out a few things that are very fundamental for this to be both effective and legally secure. We must put the rule of law first. If we are to have an open democratic society, it is extremely important that we have this clear to us. We cannot blur those things in the fight against terrorism in order to maintain our open society. At the same time, we should take the risks seriously. The combination of efficiency and legal certainty must be based on seeing what risks exist. In the letter and in the proposals from other parties, there is a certain excess to talk constantly about Muslim or Islamic extremism. But if you look at what it has been like in Sweden over the past two decades, it has been predominantly right-wing terrorist crimes that have been committed. If you go back 20 to 25 years, there are various events that show a pattern where it is the right-wing forces that do most in Sweden. But it does not remove the fact that in the world there are a number of different movements, both right-wing and religiously extreme, which are dangerous and to be guarded. We have had the Laser Man, Peter Mangs and a number of different fires in refugee homes, such as terrorist crimes, and we must pay attention to them. They must be included in this work in order to be able to assert this. One thing we would like to point out is that the overall picture should not be forgotten. If we are to have effectiveness against all extremism leading to terrorist crimes, we must have the whole picture clear to us. It also means that – as I can sometimes get a sense of – we cannot rush forward measures to combat terrorism, which hastens the rules. This is extremely important, and we in the Left Party would like to emphasise this. It must be clear what to do to have an effect while defending human rights and the rule of law that we have today. For us, it is a question of putting a great deal of effort into preventing extremism and radicalisation, especially of younger people. That's the most important thing. In the letter, it is quite well described how it should be done. Other proposals have also been made during the process, which are quite good. This range from olika efforts on certain groups to bringing different organisations into society, knowledge centres and more. These are very good proposals that we think should be highlighted. We think that's the best thing. We will not be able to deal with terrorism alone with repressive measures. New terrorists will be born all the time. Experience shows how things have looked in the world when there have only been repressive measures. It is not that the extreme Islamic movements come from nothing. They come from having done the wrong things in conflict cores. Iraq is by far the best example. There's a lot coming from there. When you try to bomb off terrorism, it comes back. It therefore has the opposite effect. When we in Sweden are dealing with this, we must be clear about what the state power is really about. What should we do to use the state's monopoly of violence and the means of power to prevent terrorism and, above all, to prevent terrorism? That's the most important thing. Then there will also be a balance in efficiency and legal certainty, which is at the heart of what needs to be done. There must be proportionality in what you do. This means that some of the proposals made by the bourgeois parties and, above all, the Swedish Democrats are not proportionate. It's an overwork and an almost panic fear of not doing a lot of things. If you think about it and do the right things, it will also be efficiency and results. I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 5. It is about criminalising terrorist travel. It's a pretty difficult matter. The letter states that the matter should be examined, which I think is a good thing. The question can be investigated on the basis of what legislation we have today and what is effective and what is not. In this work there are some people that I think you should listen to. A while ago, Agnetha Qvarnström Hilding, the Chief Prosecutor of the National Unit for Security Affairs, was interviewed in SVT. She says that combating terrorism may not primarily be about new laws. It is about dealing with the laws that exist today and applying them. It is also important to get a good piece of evidence to frame terrorists. In the interview Agnetha Qvarnström Hilding says that a criminalisation of terrorist travel does not make it easier than it is today. So we need to investigate what we're going to do to make things better. Current legislation is sufficient, but the difficult thing is to prove what you are looking for. Otherwise it will be the wrong effect. If you have evidence that a person has traveled abroad to commit a terrorist offence or to be educated, you can use it as proof when the person comes home. But it is already possible today. The question is whether the criminalisation will be effective if nothing is done preventively. That's what it's all about. The evidence is the hard part. If today's legislation is sufficient, then this will be legislation that is empty, and then there will be no effect. It is extremely important and central that you lift the things that have an effect when you make laws. You have to be sure what they mean. We are in favour of investigating what a criminalisation of terrorist travel would mean. But we're not sure there'll be any effect if you don't do the right things. I would like to come back to this with prevention. Nevertheless, that is at the heart of the letter from the government and the report. It really is a question of finding safe ways to prevent the recruitment and training of terrorists. Whatever religious or political extremism is at stake, that is what is at the heart of it. We have quite a lot to do there that will have an effect in the long term. That should be the starting point, that it should not only be repressive measures but also prevention. It is clear that the terrorist acts must be prevented. Those who carry out such acts should be taken care of. But it must be combined with efficiency. I would also like to point out that there was an opinion from the Committee on Defence. We had a different opinion about future possible use of the Swedish Armed Forces. In the future, there is of course an opportunity to use the Swedish Armed Forces to combat terrorism. We need to look very carefully at this issue in order to investigate the context in which it can be done. Otherwise, there'll be a continuous panic that could become a fall-out, if I say so.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-1534	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 18 and reservation 16. I will come back later in the speech to the explanatory statement. No one could have escaped the dramatic development of the last year in the Middle East, especially after the Islamic State or Daish also called on its supporters to launch attacks outside the conflict area of Syria and Iraq. For a year now, it also means that attacks on European cities, including Sweden, are considered legitimate. I was very surprised when I listened to the speech of the Left Party, which tried to tone down the threat of violent Islamist extremism. If we have a strategy, Madam President, we must move from the reality to which we have factual evidence. Swedish security police say that violent Islamist extremism is the greatest threat at the moment to Sweden when it comes to terrorist attacks. Then Torbjörn Björlund comes up and says: No, but why should we draw too much change on it? And then he tries to tone it down. I think it is unfortunate to take this approach. When the government took office a year ago, they said it was empty in the department. Nothing was done in the field of terrorism. What was not said was that the UN resolution, which came into being after our Swedish election movement, namely on 25 September, was a binding resolution. That is why we have spent about a year in Sweden discussing and debating how Sweden will adapt its legislation against terrorist travel and complement where there are gaps. It has also sounded like there is no strategy. But there has been a strategy of terrorism from 2012, built on the reality of that time. But now it's another reality. That is why it is positive, we believe from the Liberals, that it is being revised. It has sometimes sounded to the Minister of Home Affairs, not least, but also to the Minister of Justice that we cannot prosecute anyone. We can't act. There is not enough legal support. But Sweden already has a law against terrorist offences. The problem is, nobody's in jail. Not a single IS terrorist has been convicted in Swedish courts since 2012. I think that's a problem. We have a law against the financing of terrorism. We have a law against training terrorists, and we have a law against recruitment to terrorism. The Minister of the Interior has devoted his first year to systematically informing the public that this is not the case. It's directly irresponsible. How many proposals against terrorism have the Social Democrats and the Green Party in this government so far delivered, one year after the entry into power? Yes, it is very simple to say that, Madam President: Zero. There are no proposals to the Swedish Parliament during the first year. However, the UN decision on the law on terrorism needs to be clarified, because it is unclear whether, for example, one can stop someone at Arlanda or not. Why are we making an announcement? Yes, we do because we want to move on. We want to make it clear that planning and preparation for terrorist travel will also be criminalised. It is not included in the legislative referral presented by the government. So Annika Hirvonen Falk does not have to be concerned that we are only announcing something that is already under way. Preparations for the journey of terror have not been included. We think it is important that it is included. An increasing concern is the number of people who have travelled to Iraq and Syria and who have also returned. 126 people have come back. The other thing I've mentioned. No one's in jail so far. On this point, the Liberals have had at least three debates in this House only in the last six months with the Minister for the Interior and the Minister for Justice, calling for action. However, nothing has been heeded with regard to measures on the Security Service's report on returnees. I have heard that the Green Party has previously said that Sweden should be able to bring down more terrorists who have travelled and who have returned. But we have pressured the government on the issue of the Security Service's mandate and, not least, the Prosecution Authority's resources for terrorist security targets. Of more than 1 000 prosecutors, three prosecutors deal with all these cases. I think they've hired an extra one this fall. You can figure out for yourself how many further cases are to be investigated by these three or four prosecutors when you also criminalize travel. It doesn't make any sense. It is remarkable that throughout the spring the government has said no to all our proposals. The strategy lacks a red thread, but we think it is better than nothing. But the general political debate has led the government to literally throw everything into this strategy. It's everything from hand grenades to the smuggling law, the passport issue and terrorist travel. There is no clear line in the so-called strategy. The government is backing down on an essential point. During the spring, the media and articles have claimed that the law against recruitment to, financing of and call for terrorism does not exist and that this is what the government must address. The report shows, Madam President, that most of this is already criminalised. With this background, the Liberals want to point out the shortcomings that we believe are in the legal chain. This applies mainly to prosecutors in the field of terrorism, but also to the unit of genocide and war crimes. Without reinforcements, it doesn't matter how tough terror laws we have. It was also Torbjörn Björlund inside. Those of you who follow these issues know that all cases of terrorism, with the exception of two topical cases in recent weeks, have in fact been closed down by prosecutors precisely for lack of evidence. That is why I would particularly like to support Amendment No 16 on the International Public Prosecutor's Office. We also call for the approval of reservation 18. It must be made easier to withdraw passports for persons who are preparing terrorist trips or who are even already suspected of terrorist offences. It is remarkable that the government, which stresses the importance of preventing and preventing terrorism and not just acting repressively, is saying no to the reservation that we have in the report. To conclude, Madam President, I note that the Special Opinion of the Left Party strongly questions proportionality and the proposal to criminalise terrorist travel. It is believed that it is in principle an ineffective measure and that it can also be legally insecure. Then I would like to ask the Left Party, now that the government's legislative referral is known: Will you assist the government's bill on the criminalisation of terrorist travel?
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-1552	Madam President, I would like I don't know if Roger Haddad listened to everything I said. I was talking about religious extremism, too. What I just highlighted was that we have a wide range of extremism. Right-wing extremism is today, I think, not sufficiently valued. You can look at the history we have in Sweden of extremist acts, terrorist acts. To consider they are actually right-wing extremes. We have had a discussion about fires in refugee camps, the Trollhätte murder and all the things that come of it. We've had L. Asherman and Peter Mangs. These things do not come out of thin air, but there is, of course, a reason why they come and are there. Of course Islamist extremism and IS are a threat. It's also terrorism. I didn't really say anything else. The question is in such cases to Roger Haddad: Does Roger Haddad think it is less important to deal with right-wing extremism than IS and religious Islamist extremism? That's the reality. That's what it looks like today. Out in the world there are actually a number of reasons why it looks like it does, even in Sweden. But when we in Sweden today see that a lot of people, Swedish citizens with a slightly different skin colour than we have, this is one thing that we have to take a stand on, I think. Then I was rather pleasantly surprised that Roger Haddad also highlighted the fact that there is legislation in force today. Maybe that means we don't have to do a lot of other things. We must first investigate what is to be done. What I pointed out and the quotes I had from the interview are about this. We need to know what laws to make to do the right things. If it doesn't result in criminalising terrorist travel, we need to investigate what we're going to do. Or should we just make decisions and then leave it alone?
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-1558	Madam President, I would like The Left Party may, for example, request approval of our alliance reservation on passports. Then, in my opinion, we would have an effective means of preventing many people from going there. It's a quick and easy offer. Nor have you supported the request of the Moderates and Liberals for more resources for the International Prosecutor's Office, Torbjör Björlund, so that we can increase the capacity to collect more evidence and prosecute more terrorists, regardless of the law on terrorist travel. Madam President, I would like Last Friday we had a debate in this House on hate crime. Then we noted that the right-wing, racist motives are the biggest problem. But this debate and this strategy are about terrorism. Torbjörn Björlund and I may think that something is the greatest threat or the most serious. We may think what we want, but then there are facts. Islamist and violent extremism is the greatest threat to Sweden and democracy, not least when it comes to the risk of terrorist-motivated attacks in Sweden. Does Torbjörn Björlund share the conclusion, or does he feel that the Security Service is making the wrong assessments? I still want answers, Madam President: will the Left Party assist the Government's proposals on the criminalisation of terrorist travel?
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-1563	Madam President, I would like With regard to the various issues highlighted, such as international cooperation and passports, we have a positive attitude towards finding out what is the best thing to do. Handling passports is one thing that can be pretty good. It can be good to tighten the requirements so that you can not pick out as many passports as you like. Even biometrics can be good for getting a pasecurity. It's not really a problem. There are, of course, proposals in the letter to investigate this and to produce proposals. We don't want to move too fast. The problem with moving too fast and not knowing what to do is that it goes wrong. This is a bourgeois tradition, I think. The previous government often did fast and wrong. That's something I definitely think Roger Haddad should think about. As far as international cooperation is concerned, of course we should be involved. But even there, we need to find out what are the best and most effective methods. That's what's at the core. Our attitude is that we have to have ice in our stomach when we do these things. The laws are supposed to be effective for a long time. The fact that IS is a major international threat is obvious. There's a lot of things you can say about IS and how they handle things. IS has been around for a few years. Before that, it was al-Qaeda, al-Nusra and those. There are a number of different currents among the Islamic, extreme terrorists. However, the terrorist attacks committed by right-wing extremists in Sweden are no less serious. They also affect people. I believe that there have been 30 murders in Sweden since 1990 that can be described as hate crime or terrorist crime, all committed by right-wing extremists. This must be taken into account. When it comes to Säpo, of course, I trust that they have something so close to good control. But the last arrest they made of a refugee was not very good, and sometimes when you listen to the Säpo director you can get the impression that fires are about young drunk men, when there is an organized extremism even there.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-1569	Madam President, I would like Let me make it clear that the Liberals believe that, on the basis of the information they had, it was absolutely right for the Security Service to act on the individual matter in Boliden. It was equally obvious that they quickly closed the case when the prosecutor found that there were insufficient reasons to hold this person under arrest. Even the person's lawyer felt that the Security Service acted correctly. The Left Party criticizes us for moving too fast. It's probably the first time I've heard that criticism. Otherwise, I have been debating this issue for a whole year with Minister of Home Affairs Ygeman and Minister of Justice Johansson, who claims that we made no proposals and did nothing about terrorist travel. And the Left Party has still not answered the question of a law on the criminalisation of terrorist travel, although that is what we are discussing. I also note, at this late hour, that the Left Party does not accept, cannot put faith in, the Security Service's report that violent Islamist extremism is the greatest threat to Sweden when it comes to terrorist crimes. That is very remarkable.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-1572	Madam President, I would like We have seen and seen horrendous acts of terror around the world. Sometimes we want to think it's happening somewhere far away. But we have the attacks in Paris and Copenhagen in fresh memory. The risk of a terrorist attack in Sweden is increased. We're far from spared. The attacks on Drottninggatan five years ago could already have had terrible consequences. But wherever a terrorist attack is carried out, innocent people are killed and injured. Families are torn apart, coworkers are torn away. At the same time, it is an attack on open and democratic society and therefore an attack on us. The Islamic extremists wage a war against our civilisation, a war against the values on which our society is built, and according to Säpo, violent Islamist extremism constitutes the greatest threat to Sweden. They want to create anxiety, they want to create fear, they want to create insecurity and instability in the West as well as in the Middle East. We have seen their disgusting propaganda images, how they decapitate people and then smile up the cut-off head in front of the camera. Christians are systematically persecuted and executed for refusing to convert. Muslims who don't stand up for the vision of the caliphate are being persecuted. Homosexuals are thrown from high-rises. The examples are too horrendous, Madam President, to really understand. We Christian Democrats believe that Sweden needs to do more in the fight against IS, or Daish. We already said this summer, as France has requested, that we should make the JAS available to assist in the fight, if the international coalition so requests. Some have criticised us because they believe that participation can further increase the risk of terrorist attacks in Sweden. But we must not let fear paralyze. Indifference is not an option. We must not become the silent mass that makes this possible. That is unacceptable. There must be no doubt whatsoever as to where Sweden stands on these issues. The fight against terrorism and tyranny must never cease. The fight for freedom, openness, democracy and human dignity must continue, both at home and abroad. Madam President, I would like I welcome much of the government's anti-terrorism strategy. We are currently having talks with the government about how we can jointly stand up to the forces that want to attack our society and spread fear and anxiety with their terror. There is much to do, and we must do more, not least because, according to Säpo, it is up to 300 people who travelled from Sweden to Syria and Iraq to fight with IS. We have a responsibility to better prevent people from travelling from our country in order to carry out the brutal acts that force people to flee. More offensive and concrete work is needed in municipalities to prevent people joining terrorist cells or becoming IS warriors. It must be possible to seize passports for persons suspected of joining terrorist organisations abroad. Fingerprints and facial images must be checked when travelling across the Schengen external border to and from Sweden. Madam President, I would like We also have a responsibility to bring those who have travelled and return to justice and to impose penalties proportionate to the crimes committed. It is good that the government now wants to make it criminal to fight for terrorist organisations abroad. More stringent legislation must be put in place as quickly as possible. We Christian Democrats believe that it should be criminal to be a member of or associate with terrorist organisations such as IS/ Daish. We also think that anyone who participates in battle for IS should be able to be convicted of treason. On the one hand, the person is fighting against everything that Sweden stands for, and on the other, the person is at risk of being in conflict with Swedish soldiers. National treason legislation needs to be updated to better respond to the changing security situation. Madam President, I would like We must also ensure that law enforcement authorities have both the right resources and the right tools to meet the challenges they face in the midst of uncertainty in the outside world and the increased threat of terror at home. Secret data reading is a prerequisite for wiretaps to take place in new telephony services such as Skype and Viber. The tools must be up-to-date to the reality in which they are to be used and technologically neutral. We also believe that Säpo should continue to receive information via FRA's signal reconnaissance also during preliminary investigation in order to secure evidence so that the intelligence work can continue. Madam President, I would like Cooperation is a key to the fight against terrorism. These include improved cooperation between the armed forces and the police and enhanced cooperation within the framework of NCT between FRA, Säpo and Must. The report contains two announcements, and there are a number of reservations that we Christian Democrats have written and support. In order to save time at voting time, I request the approval of reservations 1 and 11.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-1587	Madam President, I would like I do not intend to touch upon the obvious political reactions that have resulted in joint proposals between government and opposition in the report on the Swedish counter-terrorism strategy. Despite good progress in common understanding in the fight against terrorism, the report contains nearly 30 reservations. About a third of them come from the Swedish Democrats. We obviously support our reservations, but it is above all one I think shows the difference between the Swedish Democrats and the other parties, namely whether or not terrorists should be able to retain their Swedish citizenship. Madam President, I would like The fact that Sweden has developed into one of the most active countries in Europe when it comes to recruited terrorists to the Islamic State may have come as a shock to many of the other parties. As far as the Swedish Democrats are concerned, we could only say: what did we say? For a long time Sweden has had an over-reliance on the multicultural development of society. For example, state grants have funded religious communities that have proven to convey a far more radical agenda than the one that Sweden's overly credulous control system has been able to access. When Mission review a few years ago visited imams within a variety of mosques with hidden camera revealed values that run counter to democratic principles and our way of life. For many parties, these double messages may have come as a shock. For the Swedish Democrats there was only another awakening for you other parties where we could say: What did we say? Jimmie Åkesson wrote a debate article in one of the evening newspapers a number of years ago and summarized that violent Islamism posed the greatest threat to our democracy since the Second World War. In ordinary order, the pseudo-debate began where other parties accused the Swedish Democrats of racism and said that the conclusion was completely up the walls. After the Security Service has repeatedly confirmed for several years that violent Islamism constitutes the greatest threat, the pollet slowly begins to fall into the hands of the other parties. To be honest, Madam President, the pleasure of saying is beginning to begin, what did we say? 中 to turn into a slight abandonment. It is not only on issues of Islamisation or terrorism that we have been the first on the ball and then suffered the customary political isolation with accusations and scolding. The same story has been repeated not least with regard to the long-scaling mass immigration and the question of organised begging. I really do not understand the pleasure that a parliamentary party never dare to identify obvious problems and obvious solutions before it has gone far too far. Too many parties seem to put all their energy into trying to score cheap points on the conclusions of other parties rather than taking their own responsibility, especially when it comes to issues of religious criticism, migration issues and, not least, terrorism. When the conclusions then have a broad popular base and begin to pose a threat to their own position of power, there is no problem whatsoever in claiming that the solutions they have previously criticised are the policies they have pursued themselves. Some claim to have been running it for a long time. When it comes to the proposal to deprive IS warriors of their Swedish citizenship, it is my guess that this is exactly how it will sound. Both socialist and bourgeois-led countries have implemented and practice laws in which terrorists are deprived of their citizenship and expelled for life. In France, this legislation is currently being investigated so that it can include more terrorists being deprived of their citizenship, including those born in France. But in our country, you wait kindly until it's gone far too far. Then perhaps the government will come to the conclusion that the voters and the previous government have been naive before they have managed to present a half-capable package of measures. Madam President, I would like That order is no longer good enough. Now it's a good time. The Swedish Democrats have announced in good time the proposals to deprive terrorists of their Swedish citizenship; last autumn through public statements and debate articles and then last autumn through sharp proposals in the Riksdag. They are not proposals that are controversial from a European or an international perspective. It is government policy in those countries that take responsibility for the future of their citizens. In this work we want Sweden to now start to be at the forefront instead of the other way round. I wonder why a Syrian or an Iraqi citizen should be allowed to retain his Swedish citizenship when he has done everything in his power to declare war on everything that Sweden is and stands for. Why should this person be guaranteed the supply of Swedish taxpayers? Why should this person receive housing, care and care from the Swedish taxpayer? Should not anyone who wants to give foreign terrorists privileges through a retained citizenship be punished for precisely what the government now wants to ban, namely the financing of terrorism. It goes without saying to me: IS warriors should not be offered economic or social security by Swedish society. It goes without saying to me that a terrorist with a dual nationality should risk his Swedish citizenship when he chooses a side in the conflict, that is, between Sweden and terrorism. For me, it is obvious that we will investigate how we can deprive terrorists of their Swedish citizenship even if it makes them stateless. It is also self-evident to me that we should not regard these terrorists as traitors. I will never regard them as my countrymen. They have nothing to do with our country. It is our duty for our people to let the law reflect exactly what I have said. That is why, Madam President, I would particularly like to emphasise and call for approval of the Swedish Democrats' reservation 22 on citizenship.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-1601	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by agreeing with Mr Anti Avsan's speech. The government parties in the debate have sounded like that because the government is so good, the parliament does not need to think anything. It will probably be good anyway because the Riksdag does not think very much. I do not share that view. Most people in the hall don't. There are therefore two announcements and many reservations. That is also why the Committee on Justice and the Constitutional Affairs has decided in broad agreement to organise a hearing on radicalisation and recruitment online, because we want to do more and contribute concretely to the work that needs to be done against terrorism. It is constructive and a sensible attitude for a parliament not to sit passively and wait for what the government should do. I would like to concentrate on the real problem we have with the 300 who have so far travelled, the 40 who have died and the 130 who have returned to Sweden after acquiring training and experience in terrorist activities. In addition to suspecting that they have committed serious crimes, we can also assume with good reason that they have acquired both the ability and the intention, or been commissioned, to commit serious acts here in Sweden or in Europe. This is concrete. It's not something we prevent or with general talk can stop. Concrete tools are needed. Then the police and law enforcement authorities must have tools. What is now being discussed, because there is a lack of secret data reading, and also the possibility of receiving information from signal scanning even when a preliminary investigation has been initiated. We risk a situation where doors are closed for the Security Service to investigate what these people have been doing and what their intentions are. Then the friend of order says that it is so complicated that we really cannot come to that conclusion. It should be proportionate and all whatever it may be. Exactly! A good society fights terrorism with blank weapons. However, it should be borne in mind that it takes two to two and a half years to investigate and, in order of course, refer to such complex questions. I think it is irresponsible to wait two or three years and then discover that, here, all the information was closed, we cannot investigate it now, and then a lot of things are happening, instead of investigating the problem in order and what can be done about it within the principles and values of the rule of law. Then we will have a concrete decision-making basis to decide on. That's what we drive when we demand an investigation to investigate the tools. It's extremely important. Then it was a complete surprise to me in this debate when Annika Hirvonen Falk said that the majority of the municipalities have started to take care of the returnees and the anti-radicalisation work. I have not heard the coordinator say that. I haven't heard anyone say that. It is Gothenburg, Stockholm and a few more municipalities that have taken a few staggering steps. In Stockholm, a coordinator was appointed who refused to speak to the media just a few months ago because he did not know who the directives were or what the programme was. In addition, they disagreed at City Hall but have eventually arrived at a sensible platform. That's pretty much where we are. It will take a lot more. There are currently no resources to control and follow up the returnees with less than involving local police and local authorities. It will require structured work. It's going to take a lot more of us. We Moderates are prepared to work on those issues. We have good talks right now, which I think is positive, but it will require a lot more than what has been discussed here today and more than what is being addressed in the talks that will certainly lead to some results.
i-06c23709b0dcb6d0-1612	Madam President, I would like Sometimes things go a little too fast. It went a little too fast in my first speech. I said I'm calling for all reservations to be rejected. That was wrong. I call for rejection of all the opposition's reservations, but I support our two S-MP-V reservations.
