i-58e094c437a8dc2a-6	Madam President, I would like AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson has asked me what I intend to do to ensure quickly that the absence of a central register of duties as a good man for unaccompanied minors is not used. She has also asked me whether I intend to ensure that there are no situations where good men abuse the situation today by taking on more missions than is reasonable. The questions are asked in the light of information that a person can have many assignments as a good man in different municipalities. The system of good men, including unaccompanied minors, is based on the fact that individuals in all parts of society can take on duties as good men and thus make an important contribution to a fellow human being. Good men usually perform their mission well. In the current situation when the number of unaccompanied minors coming to Sweden has increased dramatically, it is important that there is access to experienced good men who want to take on several assignments. The conditions for a good man to cope with several assignments depend, among other things, on his or her skill and experience. As AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson points out, it is important that a good man does not have so many assignments that he or she is unable to meet the interests of all principals. At the turn of the year, new legislation came into force that tightens up the control that the transferor should do of good men's suitability. A circumstance to be taken into account by the transferor is whether the intended good man already has many assignments and whether there is a risk that he or she will find it difficult to carry out another assignment. It is up to the transferor to do an active research. However, it has not been considered appropriate to regulate by law how many assignments a deputy may undertake or how the aptitude test should be carried out. I am also not sure that a register is the solution to the problem raised by Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson. The recent agreement on action in response to the refugee crisis between the government, the Moderates, the Center Party, the Liberals Party and the Christian Democrats announces that the situation of unaccompanied minors, including good men, will be kept under constant review. In the context of that review, there may be reason to further promote the representation of all children by a good man who can carry out his task effectively and effectively.
i-58e094c437a8dc2a-12	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I would like to begin by saying that I share the Minister of Justice's view of the important mission of being a good man. It is an extremely important contribution that is being made as a fellow human being. That is why, just as the Government mentions, it is important that there is access to good men and that people want to take on these missions here and now and in the future. That in itself could fill a debate of its own, because there is more to be done in this area. The Minister highlights experience as an important part and that skill plays a role in how many assignments you can take on as a good man. I agree. That is absolutely the case, and we can also agree that most people really do important work in a good way. How many tasks a good man can take on, of course, there is no given ceiling for, but it can look very different, as mentioned in this context and as the Minister also mentioned. People's skills, skills and experience are parameters that matter, not only in this case, but also in other areas, for example when looking at school. However, the number of missions to which I refer in my interpellation – 60 – is one such example where I not only question that it is possible to satisfy the interests of all the principals, but I think it is impossible, considering that the mission means that the good man should not only have superficial contact for one minute or two. It's about being helpful with visits to health care, government contacts and other parts of a person's life that should be made to work in his or her everyday life. The mission as a good man for children is different from the mission as a good man in general. I do not think it is in any way reasonable to have as large a number of children in their role as a good man, because one should be able to take advantage of their interests. The Minister refers to the new legislation that came into force at the turn of the year and strengthened the control of the transferor, namely to take into account just how many tasks make it difficult for the good man to carry out further tasks. It is then for the transferor to do an active research. This sounds like a reasonable thought and legislation, but in practice here and now it is not such a good idea, because, as I said in my question, there is a limitation on what the guardian can see in his own system. He does not see the whole picture and does not fix that task, which ultimately affects those who need help and support. This question is really raised when the guardian discovers that one and the same person has 60 people to be good men for. I'm thinking maybe it's not just in one place, it's in a number of places. The problem for the guardian is to have time to look not only in his own system and provide the unaccompanied children with a good man but also to find out in contact with others what the situation is for good men overall. How many people do they actually have outside the system you have to handle and where you can see things? In addition to taking on the assignment and being helpful, it is a practical burden to sit and look in the systems at the same time. Having good men at a distance also makes it more complicated. This requires that a good man in his assignment is in line, and it is waiting times to get answers when he is going to fulfill his mission.
i-58e094c437a8dc2a-23	Madam President, I would like The situation is that there has just been a change of law. The previous government did not impose a formal ceiling on how many children a good man can care for, but stuck to that system where it is simply up to the transferor to make that assessment. The previous government did not impose such a ceiling, nor is it appropriate for that government to introduce it. I believe, like the previous government, that it must be up to the guardian to make that assessment, and then you can lean on new legislation. We all know what reality looks like. We have a situation where there are very many unaccompanied children coming to Sweden. We are talking about a few thousand a week, in this year a bit over 30 000, perhaps up to 40 000. We all understand that this places huge demands on our systems – not just on the good man's system, but it is such an issue that must be resolved and that we must be able to deal with. There's only one solution to this, and that's recruiting more good men. The Government has recently given a special mandate to the National Board of Health and Welfare to carry out information campaigns to the public about what it means to be a good man. I think that the entrance should be that we now see such a great commitment from the population overall on the refugee issue. There are many who are doing an incredibly voluntary job right now. It's about collecting clothes and money. I'm trying to help out in asylum homes and so on. I would like to point out, then, that this commitment can actually also be channelled towards taking on a good man's mission. It does not have to be as complicated and difficult as perhaps many people assume it is, and so I think it is important to carry out the kind of information that the National Board of Health and Welfare has now been commissioned to do. The situation is different in different parts of the country. I was happy to see that there seems to be a great interest from the public in Stockholm. You even have a queue of people who want to be good men to be able to take care of those who come to Stockholm. I hope that this situation will also be achieved in the rest of the country.
i-58e094c437a8dc2a-30	Madam President, I would like I shall begin with the last point made by the Minister of Justice, namely that it is different in different places in the country. I'm glad people want to be good men. It is a service that is needed, and it is positive that people look at it in a new way. I hope it gets rings on the water. Then let me go back to the problem. At the same time as the children and young people should have good men, there is a system that should work as usual. We know that there are great pressures at the moment, but at the same time there are people in the ordinary system who need good men. If the situation is not handled and these people are put in line, they can lose accommodation or anything else. There is a great risk and danger at that end. A good man should also take care of financial tasks and help people to find good solutions to, among other things, income. You can't do that on your own, and then we'll be back on the case of the guardian. A good man will get help and support from the transfer guardian. That aid is stopped in a system in which I believe that the guardian is burdened by having to spend time searching the system to check that there is no abuse. I have proposed a solution with a central register. I can agree with the Minister that it may not be the solution to be used, but it must be a solution. This is not just about here and now, but also about the future. There is a need for a solution so that the guardian can make reasonable judgements and ensure that irregularities do not occur. The focus shall be on the person for whom the mission is intended. I once again wonder if 60 people can be in focus. That sounds more embarrassing. Although the situation is crowded, it is sad that this situation has arisen. A good man gets between SEK 2,800 and 3,500 a month for the job. I think a lot of people are doing a far bigger job than they're paid for. But if you take it upon yourself to be a good man for 60 people a month, I question whether this is a genuine mission. I find it hard to see that this is happening for the right reasons. It is good that the National Board of Health and Welfare should look at the recruitment of more good men, but I still believe that the problem of just seeing one's own part in the whole remains. What it should look like, I have no idea, and I don't have to. It's a question of how. How will the situation be resolved? With the help of IT and technology, recruitment can be facilitated.
i-58e094c437a8dc2a-36	Madam President, I would like A law has just been adopted which requires the transferor to pay particular attention to the number of cases to be dealt with by the proposed guardian. I think we should rely on the judgment and judgment of the guardians. They can see in the individual case what the intended good man can do. I cannot comment on the individual situations, but I have to rely on their judgment. Then there was the question of a central register. What problem would that solve? The guardian will investigate how many other matters the good man has. That's where the responsibility lies. It must be conducted in dialogue with the good man in question. Building a central register and linking all municipalities to the register, as well as ensuring that the register is constantly up-to-date, is very resource-intensive and costly. That is not something I think we can prioritise right now when the situation looks like it does, when day by day, week by week, we have to cope with the recruitment of good men to the unaccompanied children. Madam President, I would like There is no other solution but to make sure that all the time work to recruit more good men. I think there is a great interest in the public to make an effort, but many have not been aware that it can be a useful and good effort to help the children who come here and as an integration effort into Swedish society. Let us work within the framework that exists, and let the National Board of Health and Welfare make the information efforts that they have been commissioned to do.
i-58e094c437a8dc2a-41	Madam President, I would like I also believe that the guardian's judgment is to be trusted. The problem still remains for me that a guardian does not see the whole picture. A good man sits in Kristianstad, but then the good man may have undertaken assignments in Gothenburg, Luleå, Haparanda, Ystad etcetera. The assignments in the other municipalities are not visible. I do not question the judgement of the guardians, but I see a register as a support and a help not to put effort and time into finding out what it looks like in 290 municipalities. An IT system could signal a good man with more than ten missions. It can't be that hard or expensive to build. At the same time, it has to save money, given that people can have problems in other ways. This applies to those who are going into the system and get good men, those who are in the system and have good men and the children who are in urgent need of good men. It is administratively resource-intensive to look, and there is a lot of operational that needs to be done every day. Nevertheless, it is my great hope that the Minister of Justice will, here and now, enable the transferors to reasonably avoid such situations and that there will be a review that looks to the future in a longer perspective. The information comes directly from the transferers, and they think there are problems.
i-58e094c437a8dc2a-44	Madam President, I would like I believe that there are significant practical problems with a central register. At the moment, thousands of unaccompanied children come to Sweden for a month. Then all the time good men must be appointed to a couple of thousand children a week. How can a central register be kept up to date in such a situation? First, the register will be built, and then it will serve as a support for the transfer guardian. The new legislation is now more smoothly developed by the previous government – where responsibility is placed on the guardian. In the trial of good men, he or she shall have a dialogue with the intended good man and discuss, among other things, how many assignments he or she has. An aptitude assessment shall then be carried out. A central register would give an idea of how many assignments a good man has, but it would not give an idea of the weight of the missions. It comes out in a dialogue. There is only one solution, namely to recruit more good men. I am pleased to see that in many parts of the country there has been a great deal of interest and commitment from many people in this matter. I'm glad to hear that. That's how the problem has to be solved.
i-58e094c437a8dc2a-48	Madam President, I would like Tina Ghasemi has asked me what has happened since the government was commissioned to review a bill to criminalise identity theft and when a bill can be expected. Crimes committed through the use of other people's identity data have become a growing problem in society. In recent years, we have also seen an increase in the number of reported fraud offences, a crime committed largely by using the identity data of others. The government is keen to break that trend. The police authority has intensified its work against fraud, and since last year there has been a national fraud centre working on coordination, prevention issues and methodological development. This will also create better conditions for the cooperation with other authorities, professional associations, credit information companies and others that are necessary to achieve success. Individuals exposed have the opportunity to request that identity data be blocked from credit institutions. In order to protect against the violation of privacy, it is also necessary to have their identity data used and to give the victim a better opportunity to take advantage of their rights, it is also necessary to tighten up the legislation. The Property Protection investigation has proposed a specific criminalisation of identity creation that the Ministry of Justice is now working on. The aim is to be able to submit a proposal to the Riksdag at the beginning of next year.
i-58e094c437a8dc2a-52	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister of Justice for his answer. Why I choose to raise this issue with the Minister is that, according to both the police and credit providers, ID hijackings have become more and more common. Id theft is today not classified as a crime of its own but can be used for several different fraud crimes. According to the National Fraud Centre, fraud increased by 9 per cent in the first half of 2015 compared to last year. According to the same centre, there are approximately 60 000 ID hijackings every year in Sweden, and there is no indication that this type of crime will be reduced without strong measures. What is required for someone to take out a loan, sign a mobile subscription or order goods in someone else's name is often just a personal identity number. For the victim, it often creates enormous problems. You have to prove your innocence and that you haven't been careless. You get extra work to, for example, cancel purchases, block cards and return goods you have not ordered. In the worst case, it can also mean that you lose your credit rating and get complaints from the bailiff. The practical consequences are many, but they also create emotional consequences. Feeling violated is not entirely unthinkable. On March 18 this year, at the initiative of the Moderates, the Swedish Parliament issued an announcement to the Government to return to Parliament with a proposal to criminalise identity thefts. Madam President, I would like It is welcome that the government is now looking at proposals to criminalise identity creation. However, the Minister of Justice says that the aim is to be able to submit a bill to the Riksdag at the beginning of next year. The Parliament decided on this at the beginning of this year, and now it will take some time next year. My questions to the Minister are: What really takes so long? Can the Minister tell us what the proposals will mean in concrete terms and exactly when the new law is expected to come into force?
i-58e094c437a8dc2a-58	Madam President, I would like Of course, I share Tina Ghasemi's view of these problems – they have grown. In fact, it is even worse than the figures that the honourable Member reports if you look at it in the slightly longer term. Only the number of reported fraud offences since 2010 up to 2014 increased by 35 per cent. In terms of the number of identity breaches, the trend is even worse. There it is an increase from 2010 to 2014 of 56 per cent, according to the statistics. As the honourable Member describes, this often gives rise to very serious concerns. In addition to the concern about the identity invasion itself, you get serious concerns in your personal life when you get your identity hijacked. This means that, right from the start, we in this government have said that we intend to create a specific criminal classification for this in accordance with the proposal of the Property Protection Investigation. Perhaps it should be said that the Riksdag made an announcement in March this year. The Parliament then knew very well that there had been an investigation that was in place. We've had a referral period on that, and right now we're working on the legislation. It is on the bill list that we went over to Parliament with last autumn that we come up with such a bill. You can always say that this should have come earlier, that it should have been delivered last year or last year. I can't be responsible for that. I can only say that this government intends to deliver such a criminalization. We are actually going to do one more thing, and that is partly why it may take an extra month. We saw that we need to do more than just what the investigation proposes. In addition to criminalisation, we want to extend this to the extent that we want to include the proposed new crime, that is to say what the investigation calls an identity violation, among the crimes included in the penal provision on illegal persecution. This means that if you systematically engage in this kind of identity violation, you will be able to be judged even for illegal persecution. We have just referred such a proposal, and the period of referral for that proposal expires today. This means that if you are convicted of illegal persecution when you engage in identity violations, it gives you imprisonment for up to four years. Then we also get to this kind of systematic persecution. It was not included in the original investigation, but it is one such proposal that we will proceed with. At the beginning of next year – more precisely, I dare not say. It's not just that the government is going to finish its product. It will then be referred to the Legal Council, and we will see how the Legislative Council sees it. But at the beginning of next year, Parliament will receive such a bill.
i-58e094c437a8dc2a-66	Madam President, I would like On 20 January this year, the Minister wrote in Expressen: – – – Legislation needs to be adapted to the development of crime. This year, the government will, among other things, put forward proposals to criminalise identity hijackings online and to combat fake invoices. ..................................................... Unfortunately, since then, little seems to have happened. Notices are, of course, orders to the Government for legislation, investigations or other measures. Last year, the Riksdag decided on a total of 125 announcements. I think that the government should follow constitutional practice and do so urgently. The Ministry that has received the most orders is the Ministry of Justice, where Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson is Minister of State. In total, you have received over 30 announcements. Many are about punitive measures where there is already a thorough basis for moving forward on this issue. But with increased insecurity in many parts of Sweden, it is remarkable, I think, that the government, for example, does not want to impose penalties for serious violent crimes. Proposals should have been submitted to Parliament by 1 October this year. The government also chooses to wait for the punishment of serious drug offences. The Swedish Parliament has also demanded that the Government should return to Sweden by 1 October 2015 with proposals against invoice fraud. So this has not happened. The proposal to criminalise identity theft has been postponed and has now also been removed from the list of government's planned proposals. Madam President, I would like We protect order and the practices of the Reich's government that have developed over a long period of time. The Moderates cannot allow the Government to delay Parliament's work or to try to reduce Parliament's influence in violation of rules and constitutional practice. There are now some thirty announcements on the table of the Minister of Justice. What is the government really waiting for, what is taking so long and why is the government so slow?
i-58e094c437a8dc2a-72	Madam President, I would like I think I was clear in my answer. We are not just going to carry out what the Property Protection Investigation proposes, but we are even going to extend it. That is why we have produced a proposal that goes beyond that in order to be able to look at whether one can also be convicted of unlawful persecution if one engages in this type of systematic identity violation. So what Tina Ghasemi will get to the Riksdag is a proposal that goes beyond what the Riksdag has ordered. We will see how the Riksdag treats it, but if we get this on the list so that one can be sentenced for illegal persecution, it is at the bottom of a prison sentence of four years. As I said, we will see how Parliament sees it, but I think it is necessary for us to be able to make a strong mark against this type of crime. Then Tina Ghasemi takes a line on the constitutional conditions. The form of government clearly states that it is the government that governs the kingdom. It is accountable to the Riksdag. Announcements do not exist in the form of government; they are not mentioned at all in the form of government. However, there is a constitutional practice that requires the Government to report to the Riksdag how it deals with the various announcements. It is the only duty, formally speaking, that the government has to deal with announcements, that is to say that we must go to Parliament and explain what we have done with the various announcements. There is no constitutional practice that says that all announcements need to be followed to the letter. Nor is there any constitutional practice that says that it must be done within a certain period of time. There are announcements that have been going on for 15 years without any action being taken. This has been the case under both Social Democratic and bourgeois governments. I have said that I am keen to try to ensure that, as far as possible and where appropriate, the announcements made are followed. However, certain proposals may prove to be impracticable or less appropriate, and we must take this into account during the preparation process. This is how the balance of power, if we call it that, between parliament and government has always been, and I hope and believe that the current opposition does not want to upset that balance of power, for it will, of course, leave a mark on future balances between parliament and government. With regard to the subject matter raised by Tina Ghasemi, we are in complete agreement. We're gonna do the criminalization. We are prepared even to go a little further than the investigation suggests. We come up with a bill at the beginning of next year.
i-58e094c437a8dc2a-79	Madam President, I would like I want to make it clear that I welcome the fact that there will be a bill at the beginning of next year, as the Minister of Justice says, is the aim. That is not what I am opposed to in substance, but I think we are touchingly agreed that something must be done and that the situation is serious. My criticism is that it takes far too long. We made a decision and made an announcement in Parliament on 18 March, and the aim of the Minister of Justice, according to the Expressen article at the beginning of the year to which I referred, was that there would be a bill this year, not next year. Now the Minister of Justice says that the goal is for it to come next year. The Minister of Justice cannot guarantee when the bill will come in time, but that is an objective. That, of course, makes me worried. An objective is a good idea, but an objective does not always lead to an outcome in the interval of time mentioned by the Minister of Justice. My concern is also about the 30 announcements that the Minister of Justice has on his table and where the Parliament has made decisions. I think it is important to follow the practice of following Parliament's decisions. I therefore wonder when we can see the 30 announcements coming back to Parliament in the form of proposals.
i-58e094c437a8dc2a-83	Madam President, I would like We have taken care of all the announcements in various respects. In some respects, legislative proposals can be delivered fairly quickly. In other respects, it is necessary to look at them in investigations. There is also a duty of preparation for the government, that is to say that we must review the consequences of the legislation and refer proposals. Legislation is not something that you do from one month to the next, but it takes time. If we do not do so carefully, we run the risk of getting laws that the courts cannot then judge by. You have to be careful in that work. Yes, I can guarantee that we will come up with a bill at the beginning of next year. What I said was that we also have another process. When we are done with our preparation, we will submit a proposal to the Law Council, and then we will see how long the Law Council needs. It may take 14 days to three weeks. It's always hard to know exactly. My answer was about Tina Ghasemi's question when exactly I could promise, and then I said it's hard to say. But I can guarantee that it will come at the beginning of next year. What has lengthened the process somewhat in relation to what I said at the beginning of the year is what I have now said in two speeches, namely that we want to extend the legislation so that one can also judge for illegal persecution. Given the scale of the problem, I think it is good to have even more powerful legislation than might have been envisaged from the outset.
i-58e094c437a8dc2a-86	Madam President, I would like Erik Andersson has asked me what is my priority and the government's priority for the increased tax revenue that the proposal to abolish the tax reduction for gifts is expected to entail. A strong and vibrant non-profit sector is of great importance to social life and democracy. My starting point is to ensure that there are good conditions for a strong non-profit sector. It is important that taxes are levied in a way that promotes the primary objective of fiscal policy, to finance common welfare, and is also otherwise consistent with the overall objectives of the government's economic policy. Tax money for NGOs should not be allocated on the basis of how they manage to get individual contributors. Tax rebates on gifts are also not compatible with the Income Tax Act's ban on deduction of personal living costs and increases the complexity of the tax system. The conflict with the ban on deduction was also highlighted in the introduction of the bourgeois government. It is against this background that the tax reduction for gifts should be abolished. In the budget bill, the government has proposed investments in civil society. In addition, further efforts will be made in the amending budget submitted to Parliament in response to the refugee crisis. This increases the overall support for civil society.
i-58e094c437a8dc2a-92	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by thanking the Minister for his reply. With regard to the abolition of the tax credit for gifts that the nonprofit associations will miss out on, SEK 250 million, I asked the Minister of Finance what is the government's priority with these SEK 250 million. I realise that the Minister for Finance has gone from being an economist to becoming a politician, because I do not think I really got the answer to that question. I would like the Minister of Finance to develop the answer in the next speech, because in her reply she writes that, in addition, further efforts will be made in the amending budget submitted to Parliament in response to the refugee crisis. In addition, she writes that, in this way, the total support for civil society is increased. I would like to know what the Minister for Finance is thinking of. Moreover, I can say that the government does not have a very good timing on new proposals, especially now that we have a refugee crisis, the like of which we have not seen since the Second World War. At this point, the government chooses to abolish the allowance for gifts. I would like to say that civil society is crucial for helping the people who are on the run both in Sweden and in crisis areas. The Moderates consider it a joyful development to choose to donate money to vulnerable people in the world. It was against this background that the Alliance Government introduced the right to deduct gifts worth between SEK 2 000 and SEK 6 000. At this difficult moment, the Social Democrats and the Green Party want to remove it. According to the Swedish Tax Agency, there has been an extremely positive development in people's assistance to non-profit organisations. In 2013, 716 000 people gave away SEK 1.3 billion. That was 36 per cent more than in the previous year, before the reform was introduced. This suggests that people's generosity has not decreased but rather increased thanks to the tax credit. I would therefore like to know what the 250 million will instead be going to. I would like clarification on this issue.
i-58e094c437a8dc2a-97	Madam President, I would like In the budget bill that is on Parliament's table, the government is investing 260 million in increased support for civil society. These include increased support for refugee guides, family contacts, disability organisations, LGBT people, the sports movement and leisure organisations. In addition, another SEK 200 million for civil society is in the supplementary amending budget that I put on Parliament's table yesterday. All in all, support for civil society will increase for this year, and next year a special investment of SEK 260 million will be made. This means that state aid to civil society will not be reduced due to tax changes. Instead of allowing the tax funds to be distributed according to how individuals choose to donate their money, however, we choose to make political decisions in the Swedish Parliament on how to distribute tax funds. I think that's a better order. It is also very clear now during the refugee crisis that the Swedish people are generous. I think that is extremely positive and something we should be proud of. But it is also clear from the refugee crisis that it is not tax rebates that you are looking for. A lot of money has been donated to organisations that are not covered by the tax rebate that still exists.
i-58e094c437a8dc2a-100	Madam President, I would like The Minister of Finance is talking about tax rebates. That depends, of course, on the approach taken with regard to taxpayers' money. Sometimes I have the feeling that the Social Democrats think that all money is the state, and then they get distributed a little here and there after discretion, depending on where the politicians think they are doing the best good. You can have a different view. It is that money is citizens' money and that citizens give the state the confidence to distribute it. It is possible that the 250 million would not even exist if we did not choose to give gifts to the vulnerable, to people on the run and to relief organisations. It's a lot about ideology. The Minister for Finance believes that it is better for political assemblies to choose to allocate subsidies to relief organisations than for individuals to do so themselves. I believe that very many people who choose to give a gift to an organization do so because they know that it goes to that particular organisation and to the thing it is about. It may be that you choose to support a language café in your municipality of residence or that you want to buy vaccines in a country where there is a need for it. This is the big difference between the bourgeois and the red: we believe more in the individual and the individual's own initiative, while the Reds want the state to distribute everything. It is very unfortunate, and it also risks passivating the citizens of our country. If the finance ministers believe that there will be more money for civil society via the state, I think it would be good to maintain the tax reduction for gifts to support people at this difficult time for Sweden.
i-58e094c437a8dc2a-106	Madam President, I would like You can have costs for the state on both the revenue side and the expenditure side. There has so far been a fairly broad consensus that tax expenditure is also to be regarded as expenditure. Therefore, a tax annex to the budget will also regularly be added to the budget to account for expenditure on the revenue side. That's what you call tax expenditure. The gift deduction is such a tax expense. This makes a special exception to tax legislation in order to reduce the tax in this particular area. It would be very interesting to hear whether the Moderates have completely abandoned the principle that we have costs on both the revenue side and the expenditure side and on the tax expenditure we have. They are presented in the annex, which is described as the tax e expenditure annex, which was also published during the time the Moderates ruled at the Ministry of Finance. Are you still behind this? This sounds like Erik Andersson no longer does.
i-58e094c437a8dc2a-109	Madam President, I would like Now came the attack from the Finance Minister that I've been waiting for. It always comes in lines 2 or 3. When you make a budget and calculate it will be as the Minister of Finance says. I'm talking more from an ideological perspective about how you looked at taxpayers' money. We live in a country where the marginal tax will now be 60%. We're going to overtake Aruba in the West Indies. We will be the country throughout the world that is taxed at the highest margin. It will not mean more gifts, and it will not give more work either. If we had been a country with a more normalized tax, perhaps we would not have needed the deductions that the Finance Minister is now doing so badly. Perhaps then we would have had a country that was more well-functioning in the field of taxation. I am telling the Minister of Finance right in how she counts, but ideologically, the Minister of Finance cannot think that it is an expense just because you get a discount.
i-58e094c437a8dc2a-114	Madam President, I would like I asked a question, and Erik Andersson perceived it as an attack. There you can think differently. I think questions are questions. It is interesting to listen to Erik Andersson, who says that if we had lower tax levels we would not need tax rebates. It only shows the usual ambition of the Moderates to lower taxes and thus reduce welfare – to lower taxes, mostly for those who earn the most, but certainly for others too, and of course at the cost of a deterioration in welfare. It's safe to recognize the old Moderates.
i-58e094c437a8dc2a-116	Madam President, I would like Fredrik Schulte has asked the Prime Minister if the Prime Minister shares the interpellant's view that cross-block cooperation is made more difficult by the government's general policy orientation and how the Prime Minister intends to achieve constructive cooperation across the block. The interpellation has been handed over to me. Stefan Löfven has, since the 2014 elections, had the confidence of the Riksdag to lead a minority government consisting of the Social Democrats and the Environmental Party as Prime Minister. At the same time, the present party constellations lack the majority in this House. Since the four bourgeois parties have excluded the holding of talks on economic policy, a broad political agreement was reached in December last year, meaning that the party constellation, which brings together the highest number of seats in parliament, will be allowed to form a government and get its draft budget through. However, since the budget bill was submitted to Parliament last autumn, the bourgeois parties have chosen to make the agreement. The political orientation of the budget proposal submitted by the Government to the Riksdag is a consequence of the agreement in force. Since the representatives of the bourgeois parties are aware of this, I do not share Fredrik Schultes's view that it is the government's political orientation that hinders broad political cooperation. Ever since it took office, the government has been open to talks with the bourgeois parties about cooperation, both on individual issues and on economic policy. The government remains open to talks with the bourgeois parties. In my opinion, it is the will of the bourgeois parties to hold talks with the government that determines whether cooperation is possible. In all cases that the bourgeois parties have accepted to hold talks with the government, broad agreements have since been concluded. This concerns defence, grades and amortisation requirements, and most recently migration and establishment. In cases where the bourgeois parties have rejected talks with the government, block-crossing for natural reasons has not come about either.
i-58e094c437a8dc2a-123	Madam President, I would like Fredrik Schulte has asked me what the motive is for only 25% of the government's proposed tax increases to go to health care, school and care. The previous government implemented a policy of substantial unfunded tax cuts, with worse effects on unemployment and growth than a corresponding increase in public investment or an improvement in public sector services. Since the government took office, fiscal policy has changed in a more responsible direction. Increasing employment and pushing unemployment down is central to improving welfare. In addition to the Government's efforts in health, education and long-term care, it is also important that fiscal policy supports economic recovery and helps to reduce unemployment through increased public investment, active business policy and efforts to improve labour market matching. Against this background, the Government has proposed investments of a total of SEK 14.3 billion in the 2016 Budget Bill and the Spring Economic Bill for 2015.
i-58e094c437a8dc2a-126	Madam President, I would like Over the last 100 years we have had a political debate in Sweden that has largely been about, thanks to the rhetorical and political skill of the Social Democrats, that the great conflict between the Moderates and the Social Democrats is about how much you want to add to welfare. The Moderates have been painted out as a party that wants to lower taxes, resulting in a reduction in welfare. That rhetoric has been rather disappointed, Madam President, over the last eight years. Then we had an alliance government that was able to do both. It led both to lower taxes and to invest in welfare. We have expanded welfare on several points during the time of the previous bourgeois government in power. It is precisely proof that the argument that has been constantly worn out in the debate is not true. In fact, we can manage both to invest in welfare and to reduce taxes. The trick behind it is to get more people into work. It is also about seeing a difference between welfare and welfare. All people in Sweden and all parties in the Riksdag agree that we should have a basic security system that helps all people in the event of unemployment. If you fall into disease, society should be there, and you should be sure that you can manage your funding. There's one thing. Another thing is: Should it pay to work or not? Should people feel that they actually get something extra, that the salary gives more money in their wallets than the contributions? If they don't, you end up in a situation where you're going to create a culture because it's okay and acceptable to live on the public. People will be more picky. They will choose more picky among the jobs available when they are unemployed. They'll be looking for fewer jobs. It's easier to get stuck in alienation and so on. Although this was disproved during the time of the previous bourgeois government, the present Social Democratic government continues with the same rhetoric: We raise taxes to invest in welfare. But, Madam President, that is not the case. I have had this debate many times with the Minister for Finance. This time I've printed up a little poster, a little poster. It shows how the government's efforts are distributed. The blue part of the cake shows how much of the government's tax increases go to health care, school and care. The red shows how much goes to other things than care, school and care. Then you can see that 75% goes to other things. Then one wonders: What is all the other? Yes, Madam President, we see that on the chart that I am showing now. More than half of the rest, almost 60%, are aid increases, subsidies and labour market policies that do not work. This is the essence of the political debate. The Social Democrats are trying to create the image that they are now investing in welfare. But they don't. They are building a benefit society, and that will not be good for Sweden in the long term.
i-58e094c437a8dc2a-134	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Fredrik Schulte. If Fredrik Schulte and the Moderates are so convinced that reduced taxes create so many more jobs that it provides increased tax revenues, I wonder: Why did they not go to choices to lower taxes?
i-58e094c437a8dc2a-135	Madam President, I would like This is another part of the typical rhetoric of the Social Democrats. They say: If you Moderates think tax cuts are so good, why don't you always lower the tax? Why don't you suggest we have zero in taxes? It is clear that we should have high taxes in Sweden. We have decided that a large part of the economy will be financed jointly. We're gonna finance the care together. We will finance health care, care for the elderly, childcare and school together through the tax bill. We're going to have a working defense. We shall have a good police force and a smooth bureaucracy that can cope with the many challenges that society is constantly facing. We must not least ensure that public finances are balanced. This means that the tax cuts or, for that matter, subsidies and subsidies that the Minister of Finance very much likes to do must come when there is financial space. Now we have had a long period of deficit, because we have had a long recession. Public finances must then be taken into account. When making tax cuts or investments, you have to do so in line with what the economy allows. That is why we did not go to elections for further tax cuts. On the contrary, we went from the Moderates to choices on tax increases. The difference is that it wasn't tax increases that hit jobs and entrepreneurship, and it wasn't tax increases that went to pay large grant buildings, but it was tax increases to invest in health care and, above all, school. This is the problem. The government is trying to create the image that there is a conflict and that we in the Alliance want to give ourselves to welfare and that they are investing in it when it is in fact the big thing that the government is investing in is the contributions. I would also like to say something about the budget deficits. Magdalena Andersson often wants to create the image of the alliance government destroying public finances. But I've printed a little diagram of it too. These are the deficits of the last parliamentary term. The blue is the Alliance's deficit. The red is the deficit of the Social Democrats, as they suggested in opposition. There's basically no difference. When Magdalena Andersson stands here in the speaker's chair and tries to create a picture of the Alliance destroying public finances, it is, to quote the Prime Minister, just nonsense. It is even more interesting to take account of the high refugee costs. I have another diagram. At the far end is the plan for the deficits, which the government has set up. In the middle we see what can happen with the Migration Board's forecasts. We can also see the Alliance's deficit. As you can hear, it is many heavy words from the Minister of Finance, but it may well be that when the Minister of Finance meets the voters in 2018, she has achieved a bigger budget deficit than what was when she came to power and under the previous government. This is because the government is unable to take the strong measures needed to tackle the refugee crisis. To sum up this debate, we have a government that raises taxes. They do not raise taxes to invest in health care, education and care, but they increase taxes to invest in benefits. They talk about how they want a budget in balance, but in reality they are unable to make those decisions. We can now have a huge deficit on our necks.
i-58e094c437a8dc2a-146	Madam President, I would like The first thing that we in the Social Democrats and the Green Party did when we got the government power was to take a firm hold on public finances. We have now succeeded in halving the deficits that we inherited from the moderate-led government. The deficits grew because of the choice to implement very large unfunded and permanent tax reductions rather than to invest in temporary economic stimulus measures, such as labour market policies. That was something that we Social Democrats advocated. Of course, public finances would have been quite different then, since temporary expenditure could have been phased out as the economic cycle strengthened. Instead, the Moderates chose to carry out permanent tax reductions. When I listen to Fredrik Schulte, I do not think that in any way it becomes more clear. Nevertheless, he argues that tax cuts lead to more jobs and thus increased resources for welfare. At the same time, however, he says that we must take financial responsibility and not reduce taxes. But what about now? Does reduced taxes create increased resources for welfare? In his first post, however, Fredrik Schulte argued that reduced taxes create increased resources for welfare. Can't Fredrik Schulte just try to clarify this in the speaker's chair. Do the Moderates mean that reduced taxes create increased resources for welfare or reduced resources for welfare? That's two options. Which is correct?
i-58e094c437a8dc2a-149	Madam President, I would like The answer to that question is very simple. It's just like I'm starting a business. Then I will have to invest money in this company. This means that I will have less money in the short term. But if this company goes well, I will have a lot more money. The logic works in a similar way in this case. When we reduce taxes, it will temporarily mean that the state gets less money in its wallet. In the long term, however, this will mean that the state will receive much more. So we need to balance the long-term and the short-term. In the short term, public finances must be balanced. Now we have had a couple of years when the previous alliance government and the Social Democrats fully agreed that we should stimulate the economy. I am showing my diagram one more time, showing the deficit created by the alliance government and the deficit proposed by the Social Democrats in opposition. It's almost as much. When Magdalena Andersson says that she wanted to see temporary investments, the fun in the crow song is that what she then wanted to see in the bets was permanently raised contributions. The extra negative thing about it is that people get stuck in exclusion and dependency on benefits. Unlike tax cuts, which stimulate the economy and have a positive side-effect, increased subsidies only have a negative side-effect. That is why the argument does not make sense. The government proposes tax increases and says they go to welfare, but they go to benefits. The government says that it should save public finances, but it is now about to overturn public finances due to the refugee crisis. The government says that the Alliance spent too much money when it actually wanted to spend as much itself but on tax cuts that would go to grants. The argument doesn't make sense.
i-58e094c437a8dc2a-155	Madam President, I would like The argument does not add up, says Fredrik Schulte. No, of course, Fredrik Schultes's argument does not go together at all. For if you lower the tax, there will be less money for the welfare. It's sad that the equation works that way, but that's actually how it works. I believe that even the inhabitants of Sweden understand this, but obviously not all Moderates. With regard to the counterfactual reality of Fredrik Schulte, I would like to remind him that a great many of the efforts that we Social Democrats proposed during the previous two terms of office were temporary labour market policies that could have saved people from long-term unemployment. But, of course, they would have been temporary, and so the budget deficits would have been different if we had had the opportunity to run the country instead. We also had suggestions for some premium increases. The point of benefit increases is that they do not increase costs in the same way as tax cuts as the economy grows. Therefore, we see that the Moderates once again pursued a policy that gave Sweden great deficits. Out of three possible times that we have had moderates in the government, they have all three times left behind government finances with large deficits. That is why it is very good that we, as the government, have halved public finance deficits and that we take responsibility. This gives us quite different opportunities to be able, in this situation of a refugee disaster, to make the kind of efforts that we presented yesterday and which will mean very important advances to the municipalities so that they can maintain good quality in health care, school and care, while at the same time carrying out an important work of welcoming the people who are now seeking to Sweden.
i-58e094c437a8dc2a-159	Madam President, I would like Roger Haddad has, on the grounds that the Swedish Security Service has recently presented figures for how many people have travelled from Sweden to participate in the war in Syria and Iraq, asked me if the report from the Swedish Security Service gives rise to any general measures or initiatives on my part and on the part of the government. The new Swedish strategy against terrorism presented by the government in August will be the starting point for Sweden's long-term work against terrorism. The strategy includes measures to prevent, prevent and aggravate terrorist crime. The strategy takes into account the accelerating problem of foreign terrorist fighters. The Government's anti-terrorism objectives include, among other things, prioritising efforts to counter radicalisation and violent extremism at national, regional and local level and cooperating on interventions. The national coordinator for the defence of democracy against violent extremism has a special responsibility to develop this collaboration. Furthermore, the strategy includes that law enforcement authorities should have effective and legally secure tools to prevent terrorist attacks and that the criminalisation of terrorist crime should be effective. The Swedish Security Service has the primary responsibility for combating terrorism in Sweden. An important part of the agency's work is to assess the threat that those returning from conflict areas pose to Sweden and Swedish interests. The authority also assesses whether there is a suspicion that a returnee has committed terrorist crime, which in that case is investigated under the direction of specialised prosecutors at the National Unit for Security Affairs of the Prosecutor's Office. That the number of people travelling from Sweden to conflict areas to join terrorist organisations has increased in recent years is known since before. In the 2016 Budget Bill, the Government has proposed increased funding to the Swedish Security Service to give the agency the opportunity to continue work to further develop the work against terrorism, among other things. The latest information from the Security Service on the number of returnees does not lead to any further specific measures or initiatives by the government.
i-58e094c437a8dc2a-162	Madam President, I would like I thank Minister Ygeman for his response to the interpellation. We have debated this theme many times. Anders Thornberg, Head of the Swedish Security Service, has updated and presented his report in which it is more concrete to see that about 40 of the Swedes who have gone to conflict areas have died and that there are 125 to 150 people fighting down in conflict areas. But what he emphasised as particularly interesting was that 115 people are back in Sweden – this was just over a month ago, and now there are perhaps even more – and there is no sign that this would decrease, but it is still an aggressive recruitment that takes place out in our communities, in neighborhoods and not least on social media. Unfortunately, this attracts adults but not least young people to violent Islamist extremism. I share the concerns expressed by the Director General of the Security Service. He was very concerned about this development. The People's Party shares this concern. Of course, it is in our interest to follow up not only the long-term strategy. I am asked by citizens where these 115 have gone and what they are doing. Well, as far as I know, no one's in jail. Maybe they've been offered other efforts. We are conducting the debate on this interpellation at a general level because the government may not be able to comment on individual cases. But we still want an assessment from the government. It is not enough to refer to a strategy. These people have supported IS, the Islamic State, on the basis of the report of Säpo, i.e. terrorism. The Security Service tells us and in their reports that they know – they do not believe – that these people have supported the Islamic State in various ways, and now they are here in Sweden in our municipalities and in our societies. Madam President, I would like The Home Secretary says that Säpo will get more money to develop the work against terrorism. That sounds good, but the question that arises is what the government wants to achieve with the initiative. Obviously, Säpo has already worked out methods to try to keep track. They say that they have an eye on every one of these over 300 individuals, both those who are abroad and those who are here in Sweden. Then the question is: What is the effectiveness of this? How will the initiative help us to protect ourselves better against these people? I don't want to pull everyone over. The National Coordinator has pointed out everything from young girls in 14 years who have been lured down to the extremely religious and radicalized young people who have clearly written on their Facebook pages and other social media that they have gone down to fight and kill other people. It is clear that these are different categories, but we still want to know how the government sees this.
i-58e094c437a8dc2a-168	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking Roger Haddad for the question and the interpellation. I will try to give as good an answer as possible to Roger Haddad's questions, but I hope there is some understanding that there are things I will not be able to tell you about because it could affect the work of the police and the Security Service. The security police, of course, are following all those individuals who go off to fight for the Islamic State or other terrorist organisations. To the extent that you have time, you have a conversation with the Indians before they go to try to get them not to leave. They tell of the possibility that they will be prosecuted if they return. When the individuals come back – if they come back, I'll say; as Roger Haddad mentioned, a large part of them die in battle – the corresponding talks are conducted with them. They try to find out what they have done and whether they have been guilty of crime. You sort them out. It may then follow that preliminary investigations are being initiated following the laws in force today, since many of them may have been guilty of criminal offences already committed today. However, the government – and I understand that the People's Party shares this view – sees that today's legislation is not sufficient to prosecute enough individuals for the acts they have committed in Syria or Iraq. Therefore, the government is now proposing legislation to criminalise the organisation, recruitment, financing, preparation and training of terrorist war travellers. This will greatly increase the ability of the Security Service and the police to prosecute these individuals. This is also the background to the government's provision of funds to Säpo, as there will then be considerably more individuals the Security Service will need to monitor. However, I would also like to make it clear, Madam President, that investigations against individuals in this group are already taking place today. There are also other forms of police surveillance against the group. Thus, even though prosecution is quite limited today, current legislation will be able to lead to the initiation of preliminary investigations and prosecutions. If I am not completely misinformed, it will shortly be prosecuted at the district court in Gothenburg against several individuals who have been guilty of this type of activity.
i-58e094c437a8dc2a-173	Madam President, I would like The Minister for Home Affairs mentioned existing legislation. We have debated it extremely many times, both in the media and in this House. Let me begin by saying that I have even received in writing from the Minister for Home Affairs that today there is actually the possibility of prosecuting persons who have committed terrorism. This may include recruitment, funding or receiving training. In spite of this, none of those who have since 2012 travelled to fight with the Islamic State and come back have been prosecuted. One can point out that more will be prosecuted when Säpo receives more money and when we add the second part of training for terrorism abroad. But at the heart of this interpellation, Madam President, are those who have come back. I know that efforts have been discussed in many municipalities, and this has led to very hot discussions. Are we going to be repressive, or are we going to choose a different path-- are we going to train them and arrange housing for them? What are we gonna do? I and many municipalities are asking for national guidance. I came home yesterday from Malta where we had an international conference on counter-terrorism, Madam President. There was a focus on children and young people. Most of the countries represented have chosen a crime prevention approach and a rehabilitating, reintegration approach. So you don't throw 11-year-olds or 12-year-olds in prison, and you don't question 14-year-olds like they're adults. Those who spoke were experts, so I suspect there is a lot in what they say. However, the 115 group that has returned to Sweden contains a lot of 20 to 25-year-olds, and there are also older people. In any case, I cannot today answer a question from the public or citizens about how we in Sweden deal with these people. According to Säpo, they have expressly assisted the Islamic State. We saw yesterday the heinous attack in Beirut, in my country of birth, Lebanon, where more than 40 people died from the suicide bombers of the Islamic State. It is clear that these issues are coming up, and we in the People's Party have paid some attention to it in our shadow budget in terms of the capacity of the prosecutor or the war crimes rich unit. It is also about stepping up work with the Migration Agency. Now that there are flows of refugees, there is also concern among the public in Sweden. We must not only keep track but also take action. I do not think it is enough to refer to a general, long-term strategy that will come next year. It has been presented, but the concrete proposals have not yet arrived. I do not think it is enough for us to have legislation on the part of travellers at the earliest next autumn. This interpellation is about the readiness of Sweden as a nation and the government when we know that we have 115 who, according to Säpo, have participated in and supported Islamic state struggles.
i-58e094c437a8dc2a-180	Madam President, I would like First of all, let me just get this straight with the strategy. The strategy came this summer. Then it has been put on the table of Parliament, and the People's Party and other parties have had the opportunity to exercise about it. I do not think that the letter has been submitted to Parliament yet, but it is well on the way to be done now during the autumn holidays. Although it has not been completed by the Riksdag, the Government has taken some of the measures indicated in the strategy. The work therefore goes on despite the fact that the letter has not yet been completed by the Riksdag. All the concrete proposals there are to be implemented and exchanged in concrete actions. Nevertheless, let me take a moment in the legislative process. It is true that terrorist crimes as such are captured by the current legislation in Sweden, but otherwise, in the case of terrorist war travellers, the legislation we have is far too weak. Unfortunately, this is a shortcoming for which the previous government has to assume a great deal of responsibility. It did not deal with the problem earlier and did not start the necessary legislative work. Let me give you a few examples. With regard to the financing of terror and terrorist war travel, it is today forbidden to provide funding for terrorist war travel, but it is required that the prosecutor should lead in evidence that the money you have given to the organisation has actually been used for an act of terror. It is almost impossible for a prosecutor to prove that the money you deposit into an account in Sweden leads to a terrorist attack in Syria or Iraq where we do not have police, forensics or security police in place. Therefore, the investigator, and also the FATF, proposes that the purpose should not be clarified, that is, even if you give 100 000 to a terrorist organisation for an alleged humanitarian purpose, it should be criminalised. It is in order to ensure that terrorist organisations cannot have a humanitarian cover-up and thus be able to finance their activities. This change makes it much easier for the prosecutor to lead in evidence that the terrorist financing that, unfortunately, is taking place in Sweden, after all, should be sufficient for a conviction in court. The same is true in the recruitment section. It is forbidden to recruit and hold terrorist training in Sweden today, but it is not prohibited to go to training camps with the Islamic State in order to become a suicide bomber. The terrorist who blew up the bomb in Lebanon, about which Roger Haddad spoke, had been legally able to go to training camps if he had been a Swedish citizen, according to the Swedish law in force under the previous bourgeois government. Surely it cannot be legislation with which Roger Haddad and the People's Party are satisfied, and I do not think they are, Madam President. What I would like to illustrate is that although Roger Haddad is right in the fact that terrorist crimes are criminalised today, there are so many gaps that we must move forward. By closing a number of gaps, it will be easier to hold those returning from Syria today to account for their actions. The national coordinator will, as Roger Haddad says, give guidance to the municipalities, also do so and have produced a number of materials. Roger Haddad asks if it should be repressive or social measures. It's supposed to be both, I mean. They must be social for those who are not guilty of terrorist acts and for those who return because they have seen the real face of the Islamic State. But they should be repressive of those who have committed crimes and acts of terror so that later, after they have paid for their crime, they can make social contributions and help them back into society.
i-58e094c437a8dc2a-189	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Home Secretary. Those who are currently investigating legislation on combat abroad have announced that it is very complicated. There are no easy answers to submit to the Government or the Riksdag. The head of the National Security Unit, Hilding Qvarnström Qvarnström, says that what is going on is a blow to the air. She believes that there is already the possibility, as a prosecutor, of prosecuting and prosecuting those who have travelled and returned, for example for war crimes. She sees a risk that future penalties will not lead to more prosecution. Agnetha Qvarnström Hilding has a very important function in our constitution and in our society. She is head of the National Unit for Security Targets, and I hope she has the basis for her statements. This would mean that some of those who are going down there or are down there, and not least those who have come back, could actually be prosecuted for terrorist or war crimes. But I'm not a prosecutor; I'm elected, so I'm allowed to follow the legal process. As far as the current legislation is concerned, Säpo has previously informed about recruitment. There have been few prosecutions, and so far they have all been closed. Right now there's a case from Järfälla. It's the only known case that's on the table. The focus of the interpellation was on dealing with those who are back, whether it is social or repressive. Here the Minister for the Interior informs me in his reply that he is not going to take any more initiatives in response to Mr Säpo's report, and I am concerned about that.
i-58e094c437a8dc2a-193	Madam President, I would like That's a nice rhetorical point, Roger Haddad. However, if we are to be honest, the reason why we are not taking any further action, after the presentation of the report by Mr Säpo, is that we have already presented more than twenty measures to Parliament – measures that the previous government could have taken but did not do. It is not because we are satisfied after the last report. We continuously monitor the development together with Säpo. If the Swedish Security Service or the Swedish Prosecution Authority, or even Roger Haddad and the People's Party, come forward with constructive proposals, in addition to those contained in the strategy, which could tighten up Sweden's work against terrorism, I am of course prepared to listen to them and take the right action. Then I would just like to note for the record that the image that Roger Haddad gives of the prosecutor's view of the law differs greatly from the picture that the Prosecutor's Office gives in its referrals to the investigation. As a result, I have some doubts as to whether Roger Haddad has really interpreted the prosecutor correctly. If Roger Haddad has done so, I await proposals for legislative changes, which we will shortly be putting on the table of the Parliament, which could lead to an increase in the number of offenders. We should not pretend that between the People's Party and the Social Democrats there are different motives or wishes for the people who commit these terrible crimes to be prosecuted in Swedish courts and put behind bars. In this work I welcome the People's Party's most often constructive and good contribution to achieving our common goal of a safer Sweden.
i-58e094c437a8dc2a-197	Madam President, I would like Roger Haddad has asked me whether a stop decision concerning new administrative municipalities should not have been better anchored with representatives of the national minorities and how the government's decision makes it easier for municipalities and county councils that want to enter the administrative areas. Furthermore, Roger Haddad asks what concrete measures the government's higher ambitions with the law on national minorities and minority languages include. Let me begin by repeating that the Government's ambition with the policy of national minorities is high. The way in which Sweden secures the rights of national minorities is a yardstick for our society. That is also why, as far as possible, the government consults representatives of minorities, and to me, the views expressed and the exchange of knowledge that are taking place during the consultations are a very important part of my work. What the government has decided on is a proposal for a financial framework for the administrative areas. This has been prepared in the context of the internal budgetary process and it is not possible to consult on the financial framework in a future budget proposal. The interest in joining the administrative areas remains great, and this is gratifying. Local involvement is crucial for the realisation of minority rights. The work carried out in the municipalities and county councils that are part of the administrative areas remains an important resource in the work. Having said that, as the responsible minister, I must act when I receive the views of national minorities, the coordinating and follow-up authorities and the Council of Europe on a number of occasions that there are shortcomings in the system, in particular in the way that state subsidies are used differently and that the rights of national minorities are thus implemented differently and to varying degrees depending on where they live. This is not the intention and therefore there is a need to review the system. Against this background, the Government has commissioned the County Administrative Board of Stockholm and the Sami Council to carry out a review of the use of the state grant in the administrative municipalities. There is a need to review the area. Therefore, the government has announced a review of the law on national minorities and minority languages and clarifications of certain other measures in this area. In the long term, this can strengthen local work. On the question of concrete measures, for example, we are working to strengthen access to teachers in national minority languages by providing financial conditions for participants to undergo the Swedish National Agency for Education and Training for such teachers. But I would like to highlight in particular the need for the announced review, this after recurrent criticism that has been known for a number of years.
i-58e094c437a8dc2a-204	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Culture and Democracy, Alice Bah Kuhnke, for her answer to the interpellation. I have had the privilege of working on these issues since 2009. I was a folk partisan municipal councillor in Västerås when Västerås applied as the first municipality in Sweden in spring 2010 to voluntarily accede to the Act on National Minorities and the part of the reform concerning administrative areas in Finnish. I have highlighted the Finnish administrative areas in particular, but those of Meänkieli and Sami are equally important. I'm concerned. It is easy to say that the government is going to review and that it has not been able to anchor because it has been a budget issue. Gislaved, Järfälla, Luleå, Skellefteå, Sundsvall, Söderhamn, Åsele and Örnsköldsvik are the eight municipalities that have applied to the government. Have these municipalities been notified of their applications? They have actively contacted the government and the Ministry of Culture and said that they want to be part of the law on national minorities and strengthen their services in terms of democracy, preschool, culture, language and, not least, care for the elderly. It is an important and appreciated reform. The People's Party also believes that after three four years the efforts should be followed up. Some county councils and municipalities do nothing and have a lot of money left over. Then there is reason for the state to be a little tough on them and say: You have applied and received approval and state subsidies. How come you are not doing anything for the elderly and preschool in terms of democracy and support for the five national minorities? Madam President, I would like There is no contradiction between reviewing and following up where there has been criticism and examining the eight applications received. Has the government said anything to these municipalities? Or have they read in a newspaper or in a budget that there are no decisions on administrative areas?
i-58e094c437a8dc2a-211	Madam President, I would like I thank the Member of Parliament, Mr Haddad, for the interpellation and speech. I share the honourable Member's commitment and understanding of the role of the law and administrative municipalities. What I cannot ignore is what Member of Parliament Haddad also raises about the fact that there has been a criticism of how different rights come about depending on where in the country you live. This criticism has been clear for many years. I took note of it already as Director General of the Swedish Agency for Youth and Civil Society before I was appointed Minister of State, and I brought the criticism into the office I now hold. The government has decided that this criticism cannot be ignored. I know that not least the People's Party has worked with honour for the rights of national minorities and for human rights as a whole. Reviewing and investigating the way in which the state grant has been used is a crucial issue. It's tax money, and tax money goes where they're supposed to go. This criticism has been brought to my attention as long as I have been a minister. For almost a year and a half, I have been told that we must do something. Administrative municipalities must be even better managed, both in terms of basic protection, which applies to everyone, and in terms of enhanced protection. There are municipalities, such as Haninge, Västerås and others, where it works well, but there are far too many differences. We have commissioned Samitinget and the County Administrative Board of Stockholm County to review how the state grant has been used. I will receive the report in February and, pending it, we decided to pause the addition of additional administrative municipalities. We do it because we see that the law and the administrative municipalities are so important. We do not want to undermine this but continue to strengthen it. It's a break, not a stop. At the same time, it is decided that we should investigate the whole law. I know that several MPs and members of the People's Party have raised the importance of not least laws to protect minority rights being strong and bearing. The government is paused. It's not a stop. We are in constant contact with the representatives of the national minorities, and we follow the principles and order of consultation. In addition, I have been keen to have an even more intense contact, so criticism and dialogue have been clear. The eight municipalities that have applied but are not included in the budget decided by the Riksdag in December will receive a clearer formal statement when the budget is adopted. However, we have already been in contact with the representatives of the national minorities in the municipalities concerned and with several members of parliament from different parties. It is important that the great and important work in these municipalities does not stop. They must feel that they are an important part of the rights of national minorities and that they continue to have intensive dialogue and close cooperation with the representatives of national minorities. Let's take a step forward. When we add additional administrative municipalities, we will do so forcefully. We will do so in a number of policy areas that strengthen the rights of national minorities in our country.
i-58e094c437a8dc2a-224	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Culture and Democracy. I am concerned about the government's handling of minority policy, and it is clear that there are economic aspects to this. In its shadow budget, the People's Party has spent SEK 10 million more than the government in this area of expenditure. The government contribution normally paid is 1 – 2 million for larger municipalities. Some of the municipalities I listed are smaller than Västerås, so they would have received maybe 1⁄2 million SEK. So, in this context, it is not a big money. I do not understand why you should press the pause button for these municipalities. I'm sorry about that. In the answer, the Government says that it is for budgetary reasons that a dialogue with these municipalities has not been possible. But advance rulings are not just about economics. They have the right to an advance notice. When Västerås applied, we received an advance notice from the Government Office that the Government would consider our application in the coming weeks and that it would probably approve our application for voluntary accession to the Finnish administration. Have these municipalities read about it in a newspaper or through detours been told that they will not have their applications processed? I want a clear message. This is the least we can demand from the Minister for Democracy as far as the consultation procedure is concerned. In previous answers from the Government, she says that the Government has no obligation to consult. But the government must set an example. Otherwise, there can be no requirement for county council politicians and municipal councillors to consult on everything that concerns national minorities, as stated in the law. The Swedish Parliament has passed this law, and then it should also include the government. Whether it be economic or business proposals, the government should at least consult national minorities and take them very seriously. What the government has done is to reduce trust in the state. We have worked hard for many years to build and maintain trust and trust between state power and national minorities. Madam President, I would like In the interpellation response, the Minister for Democracy says that there are criticisms of how state subsidies have been used and that it is implemented differently depending on where you live, and because that is not the intention, there is a need to review the system. What does the Minister for Culture and Democracy mean by that wording? It is explicitly stated that it is the municipalities and county councils that together with the national minorities and within the law for national minorities should decide what should be prioritised. It can be in the care of the elderly, cultural elements or to build the languages meänkieli, Sami or Finnish locally. What does the wording mean? I want to know. If the government thinks that variations are wrong, I want to know, because that is not supporting the intentions of at least the legislator with regard to the law on national minorities.
i-58e094c437a8dc2a-235	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Haddad, for your speech. If there is one thing I have spent time on in my past year as a minister, it is having close contact with the representatives of our national minorities. I'm sure they can all testify to that. There has been no breach in any way of the procedures that existed before, and I have even intensified contacts between the government and the various national minorities. I am very happy about that, because it makes my work easier and makes me feel safe when I propose to the government that we investigate the minority law after several years of criticism and passivity. Consultation – yes, we have indeed consulted with the national minorities. I and the government do not consult the municipalities, but we consult with the national minorities and their representatives. Then they may have tasks or assignments in municipalities, but it is with the national minorities that we consult. However, the government does not consult on budgetary issues. It is important that we distinguish the various tasks. We are consulting on issues relating to the conditions and rights of national minorities. Member of Parliament Haddad said that he is very concerned about the policy of national minorities. I'm surprised. Then I do not think that the honourable Member has spent enough time with me so that I have been able to tell you about all the efforts that we have already begun and the ambitions that we have during our term of office to strengthen the rights of national minorities and human rights in our country. This is everything from having responded to a UPR report that we have initiated and intend to present to the Riksdag that an independent human rights institution will finally be established in Sweden. It will monitor human rights, something that I know the People's Party, not least Roger Haddad and many of his colleagues and colleagues, have welcomed. We are reviewing the way in which state subsidies are used. That is the answer to one of the honourable Members' questions. As I stated in the interpellation response, the state contribution to which you are entitled is used within the limits of the framework. One clear example in which the representatives of many national minorities have pointed out shortcomings in the system regarding how the state grant is used and how to work in the administrative municipalities is the interpretation of the whole or part of it. All too often, with that wording, it is interpreted as being partly rather than entirely. This has been said about the enhanced protection. There are several differences. The law and rights are the very bottom on which everything should be built. What we see differences in is when you cut the edges and when fundamental rights are not being respected. To go back to the fact that the Member of Parliament is very concerned, we are setting up an investigation, as I said earlier. Finally, the law is being reviewed. This will give us the basis for new policies that strengthen the law related to the conventions that Sweden has signed. We have also commissioned the Swedish National Agency for Education to develop a fast track for teachers in minority languages, which has also been requested for a long time and which the representatives of national minorities have highlighted. We are developing a minority.se, as only 66 percent of Sweden's population can still mention a national minority, despite the fact that the law has been in place for five years and politics for fifteen. We strengthen the sameting by 1⁄2 million so that they can investigate, review, find and identify measurement methods to follow up the development of the Sami language. It is an effort in comparison with what the previous government did with regard to national minorities and human rights in our country.
i-58e094c437a8dc2a-249	Madam President, I would like The People's Party has allocated SEK 10 million more than the Green Party and the Social Democrats to minority politics. Several of the reasons the Government raised are clearly of an economic nature, and the Government says that it does not consult on the budget. When you pause, of course, you take the opportunity not to use this money, Alice Bah Kuhnke. It is an indirect saving, not a bet. It was the People's Party that made decisions about language institutions, universities, minority languages, strengthened school teams and making it easier for young people and children to get access to minority languages. If we had been in a government position, we would also have announced a review of the law in full or in part, because it is obviously interpreted differently. We will do that anyway, but it doesn't have to mean that Gislaved, Järfälla, Luleå, Skellefteå, Sundsvall, Söderhamn, Åsele and Örnsköldsvik will be paused. In many of these municipalities, it is sometimes municipal politicians but usually the national minorities themselves who run the political process or the civil society process that leads the municipalities to finally say: Okay, now we will turn to Stockholm and the government and apply to be included in the administrative areas of meänkieli, Finnish and Sami. The eight municipalities have learned about this indirectly, for apparently they have not yet received a formal reply. According to the Government, it will be in December. Then they will find out that they will not become administrative areas. I find that unfortunate. I do not understand how the Government can continue to defend this approach. I think there are shortcomings in the consultation process. I am also concerned, Madam President, about the criticism of the differences in treatment. It is not clear from the interpellation response as regards the government.
i-58e094c437a8dc2a-257	Madam President, I would like I thank Roger Haddad for the debate and for giving me the opportunity to speak on these important issues. I have made clear my ambition and that of the government with regard to national minorities and human rights in our country. It is not an area in which it will be saved in the coming years of its term of office. If there is anything that our country urgently needs, it is to strengthen the opportunities of national minorities, strengthen human rights and combat racism and discrimination, which, unfortunately, we now see flourishing in relation to what it looked like here just a few years ago. There are fires on asylum homes and the like. The opportunities and rights of national minorities are much more than the administrative areas. Of course, these areas will continue to be an important and clear piece of the puzzle and a centre for how we work with the rights of national minorities and with the law. But it takes a lot more around. As I said just now, efforts are needed to combat racism and discrimination, and efforts are needed in languages, teacher education, school material and everything for which we in Sweden have received criticism, including from the Council of Europe, but above all from the representatives of national minorities. As the honourable Member said, it is the national minorities in our country that have been driving the development. It is extremely important to have good and close contact with our national minorities and to feel that they have the support of the government, the state and the parliament in promoting their rights and that the law plays a role. That is why we are now reviewing the law and setting up an investigation. Then we will move on at a pace that will allow us to impress Roger Haddad at the end of his term of office. Hopefully, then, we have also strengthened human rights in our country in a very clear way.
