i-ed74970945eb2135-1	Mr President, I would like to When the EU set the rules for the internal market, of course, exceptions were also made. Such an exception was an opportunity for Member States to recover items that are important for their own cultural heritage. On the other hand, this possibility has not been used to such an extent. The rules have been too hard to pass. On the one hand, governments have had to act within a year of learning that an object has been removed from the country, and on the other hand, the objects have had to be reconnected to a category in a pre-defined annex. The EU has therefore revised the Directive. The government has, among other things, put forward a bill, and a united cultural committee supports it. The changes mean that Member States will have up to three years to act, and new items that have not been defined in advance will also be possible to recover. With these changes, it will of course be easier for Sweden to return objects that are important for the Swedish cultural heritage to Sweden, but it will also be a responsibility for Sweden to contribute to the return of objects that are valuable to their respective cultural heritage. With this, I would like to call for the proposal for a decision of the Committee on Culture to be approved.
i-ed74970945eb2135-6	Mr President, I would like to In KU's opinion KU3, the committee deals with the Commission's Communication on Better Regulation for Better Results – an EU agenda. The Communication sets out its plans for better regulation. There is a majority in the KU that agrees in this opinion. Nevertheless, it is important to raise these issues in this House. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to briefly present certain parts of the Commission's communication. First of all, the Commission states that it wants to introduce more transparency into the decision-making process and more consultation with stakeholders. This will mainly be done through improved opportunities for stakeholders to make their views known throughout the legislative process. After the Commission has adopted a proposal, interested parties shall have the opportunity to comment on it within eight weeks. The comments will be compiled by the Commission and then forwarded to the European Parliament and the Council so that they can be taken into account in the further process. It should be mentioned here that interested parties will also be able to comment on delegated and implementing acts. Mr President, I would like to It is good that the Commission is taking this step, when more transparency and more consultation have been requested. It is a step in the right direction with regard to the democratic process. The Commission further states that any Commission proposal will be accompanied by a better justification. The justification will not only explain the purpose of the proposed measure but also explain how the principles of better regulation have been applied. It should therefore be explained why the initiative is needed, why it is deemed to be the best tool for the EU, what stakeholders think and what social, environmental and economic impacts it can be assumed to have, in particular on the competitiveness of SMEs. This list will be taken into account by the Commission in order to create better regulation. The Commission will pay particular attention to the rules affecting SMEs and will consider simpler rules for these enterprises. The Commission's proposals will also provide more detailed explanations of how the initiatives comply with the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. This is something that we in the KU have asked for on several occasions. As some Commission legislative proposals have had inadequate justifications or, in some cases, lack of justification, it has made it more difficult for Parliament and other national parliaments to see whether the proposals are contrary to the principle of subsidiarity. They have thus found it difficult to fulfil their Treaty obligation to ensure compliance with the principle of subsidiarity in accordance with Protocol No 2 on the application of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. I think it is time for the Commission to get to grips with this, and I look forward to the improvements to be made in this part. A new Legislative Review Board will also be set up to replace the current Impact Assessment Board. The new Board will have a stronger role. The new Board will assess the quality of impact assessments that underpin policy-making. If the Commission decides to take action without the support of an adequate impact assessment, it will publicly explain why. Unlike in the past, the Board will also verify important evaluations of existing legislation and the controls carried out on its effectiveness. The Communication also stresses the importance of cooperation between the European Parliament, the Council and the European Commission to ensure that EU legislation is prepared in the best possible way. The Commission has therefore presented a proposal for a new agreement with the European Parliament and the Council, an interinstitutional agreement on better law-making, which will replace the old agreement. According to the Commission, the objective is for all parties to commit themselves to better regulation and cooperation. Finally, Mr President, I would like to mention REFIT, which is the Commission's programme to ensure that European legislation is effective and results the legislators have wanted. In the Communication, the Commission states that it now wants to make the REFIT programme even stronger, more targeted, comprehensive, inclusive and more integrated into the policy-making process. The Commission will also set up a new REFIT Forum, known as the REFIT Platform, which will consist of leading experts from industry, social partners and civil society, as well as experts from all Member States, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions. The idea is that all stakeholders will be able to present their views on the impact of EU legislation and propose ways to improve it. Mr President, I would like to According to the Commission, the measures I have mentioned now aim to work more transparently and inclusively to achieve high-quality proposals that achieve societal objectives effectively. The Commission underlines that it cannot produce better regulation alone, but requires a joint commitment from all EU institutions, Member States and other stakeholders. The statement also contains a memorandum of fact. The government welcomes what is set out in the Commission's communication. However, a majority in the Constitutional Committee also welcomes the Commission's work on better regulation and, above all, the ambition to achieve this objective. Open and effective decision-making promotes democratic legitimacy. In the light of this speech, Mr President, I would like to endorse the committee's proposal for a decision that Parliament should add the opinion to its file.
i-ed74970945eb2135-20	Mr President, I would like to Transparency is an important element of the democratic process. This leads to a greater sense of participation but also strengthens the legitimacy of the legislation and makes it more effective. For this very reason, transparency and openness are important, not least in complex legislative processes such as the European one where several parties with different starting values act. This spring, the Commission presented a package of measures to achieve better and more effective legislation. The Constitutional Committee welcomes this ambition. For a number of years we have highlighted criticism, not least of the Commission's lack of, if any, justifications in the subsidiarity tests. This has caused a major problem not only for us in the Swedish Parliament but also for other national parliaments in terms of ensuring compliance with the principle of subsidiarity. The Commission now proposes that each proposal should be accompanied by a justification setting out the objectives, needs and positions of the parties, as well as the economic, social and environmental impacts, in particular on SMEs. Furthermore, the relationship between the proposals and the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality should be explained more clearly. The Commission also wants to increase the transparency of the legislation by opening up the views of the parties throughout the legislative process. Increased consultation opportunities followed by an eight-week period of time to comment are part of this proposal. This too is welcomed by the Constitutional Committee. However, we would like to stress the importance of this openness also being shown in the trialogues between the Commission, the Council and the European Parliament, the so-called trilogues. It is a process that has so far been characterised by more or less inconclusiveness. Furthermore, the Commission wants a new Regulatory Review Board, which will play a stronger role than the previous Impact Assessment Board. The new Board shall, inter alia, ensure that the Commission's impact assessments are carried out first. Secondly, it must assess the quality of these. It is also the task of the new Board to verify evaluations of existing legislation in order to ascertain whether they are appropriate or not. Finally, the Commission calls for increased cooperation between the European Parliament, the Council and itself in order to improve and simplify existing laws, evaluate existing legislation before new initiatives are considered and make the legislation clearer and more comprehensible. In addition, the Commission stresses the importance of the effectiveness of the legislation and its desirable results. The so-called REFIT programme, which focuses on these very issues, will be strengthened and more integrated into the decision-making process. Mr President, I would like to The Commission's better regulation programme highlights a number of points which, if properly implemented and implemented, will improve the transparency of the legislative process. We are therefore in favour of the Commission's communication. In the light of this, I would like to endorse the proposal made by the Constitutional Committee in its opinion.
i-ed74970945eb2135-31	Mr President, I would like to As previous speakers have already mentioned, today we are debating the KU Opinion 3 on the Commission's Communication Better Regulation for Better Results – an EU agenda. This is where I'm already pulling my ears. What makes better regulation, and who decides if the result is really better? It is not without me getting associations to when anything but democratic states feel the need to try to sell in acceptance of their dubious rule by adding the 'democracy' to their name – just as if any thinking person really were going to fall on it. For me, in any case, the legislation that we make in this House, in a good and true democratic spirit, is preferable to anything else. Thus, an EU agenda on better regulation for better results should reasonably include far-reaching proposals to return power to national parliaments. Of course, it is not surprising that this is not the case here, Mr President. But, but, beggars can 中 t be choosers, so we must be happy for the little transparency and the little influence we get for our about 40 billion a year and then try to make the best of the situation. Not everything is night black, Mr President – not even in the Commission's current communication. In any case, there is an approach to trying to be a little more open, clear and well anchored in one's work – perhaps even something more effective. It wouldn't be a day too soon. However, this presupposes that the expression of will is genuine and that the actual application is then also characterised by this so that it is not as in the case of the principle of subsidiarity that we have to debate later on. While it suggests that there is scope for national parliaments to influence, the EU and the Commission also set up a regulatory framework that effectively prevents it. Moreover, reasoned opinions issued by national Parliaments do not have to give rise to any action or change. So you invite the elbow, and it becomes a bit of a game for the galleries. This is evidenced not least by the anything other than a better performance there. Only 2 out of over 500 legislative proposals have been modified following fierce criticism by the national parliaments, despite all the fine words and fine intentions of the Lisbon Treaty. Should the result of this better regulation be something like this, there is not much more to be said about, Mr President. Nevertheless, let us be kind enough to assume that the intentions are the very best and that we really want, for example, to see greater transparency and transparency in the legislative process – despite the fact that developments with an avalanche increase in closed so-called trilogue negotiations in recent years say something quite different. It is not good enough, then, to put forward a proposal with such sweeping wordings as ensuring that the three institutions ensure adequate transparency in the legislative process, unless, moreover, a little more precise definition is made of what is meant by this. The failure to push such a crucial and central part of the future has led the European Ombudsman to question the transparency of the ongoing process – this even before the agenda is adopted and any new interinstitutional agreement has been signed. We Swedish democrats believe that if the Commission and the other institutions really are serious, it should be clear that there is full transparency in terms of negotiations in general and the competences of the Union in particular. But, as you know, hope is the last thing that abandons man, so we have chosen to give them a chance and not to reserve ourselves against this proposal. Of course, not everything is just the EU's fault. We have a government that leaves some other things to be desired – although it has been forced to do something better in some areas recently, not least in the area of migration, I must admit. We still have some misgivings. In particular, the selection process of the national experts which the Commission intends to consult in connection with the preparation of draft delegated acts is at stake. At present, the Swedish Government has, in principle, unlimited power to decide and delegate who should be considered to be a party to the Swedish action in these cases. In our opinion, national parliaments should be given far-reaching opportunity to influence the selection of experts to represent their respective peoples on various issues. Pending this, we would like to call on the Commission to adopt a somewhat critical approach to some of the self-appointed experts with highly dubious qualifications that this government might send in different contexts. We have seen empirical evidence that the government Löfven has tended to rely on and have undeservedly great faith in, for example, certain historians, whose merits have subsequently proved to be direct falsaries and stings of mythical delusions. It has even gone so far that the government has in any case appointed one or some of these as specific national experts. But perhaps we do not have to say so much about who these people are.
i-ed74970945eb2135-51	I welcome the Prime Minister to the House.
i-ed74970945eb2135-52	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. If there continue to be about 8 000 people per week applying for asylum in Sweden and that rate would last until, for example, the end of April, it would correspond to a search print on Sweden which is about twice as many as the period it came all last year. We are in an acute refugee crisis, and we need to face it and solve it. I therefore welcomed the fact that the Prime Minister presented some steps in the right direction on Tuesday, but I have also mentioned the importance of having a real effect in people seeking asylum in other countries – the country they came to first – and the return of those who are not allowed to stay in Sweden. We have put forward such proposals. That is why I would like to ask the Prime Minister if he can give a reply. Is the Prime Minister prepared to speak seriously about proposals that really produce results so that we have a real impact in the acute crisis we are in now?
i-ed74970945eb2135-55	Mr President, I would like to Yes, it is a crisis, a very serious crisis. We have to look at it from several perspectives to see what makes people look not only to Sweden, Germany and Austria, but to other countries in the EU so that the whole of Europe actually takes its responsibility. That is why the government has spent a lot of resources on the conversation within the EU. That is where many of the solutions need to be. This applies not least to future talks with Turkey, which I hope will lead to good cooperation between the EU and Turkey. We're going to keep that perspective as the main track, because that's where the solution lies. When it comes to solutions here at home, there are a number of things. We have just presented a number of proposals that are being discussed between the parties that concluded the previous agreement. I hope that those talks will lead us to agree on what we need to do. It's painful, but some things have to be done.
i-ed74970945eb2135-58	Mr President, I would like to Talks within the EU are important, but we have a situation where about every thousand people are decided to be redistributed actually. We need talks in Sweden about measures that have a real effect. I am concerned that what the government presented on Tuesday does not have a real and sufficient effect. It is against this background that we have presented, on the one hand, that those who will now have to go to other safe EU countries and have their case tried there, and, on the other hand, that Sweden needs, for example, return agreements with Afghanistan. This is the kind of proposal that we Moderates have put forward and which I expect the Prime Minister to take seriously. I would therefore like to ask again: if the Prime Minister is serious about breathing space, what further steps is he prepared to take to actually achieve results? And is he prepared to engage in serious cross-block talks in order to achieve sufficient results?
i-ed74970945eb2135-62	Mr President, I would like to As far as the European Union is concerned, we are not just talking about redeployment there. I just mentioned Turkey. A key issue at the moment is that the EU and Turkey can come up with a cooperation that allows not so many people to escape into Europe. As far as Sweden is concerned, I would like to remind you that it has not been long since we reached an agreement. On the rhetoric, it sounds as if there are no serious proposals or any proposals at all. There's been an agreement. As we can see now, we have a slightly lower number of asylum seekers. The last seven-day period was 7,000. It is also very high, so I think it needs to go down even further – down sharply. But it's not that there's no conversation. When it comes to return, we are happy to have discussions with other countries, the countries from which the refugees come. But even there, I am absolutely convinced that the best outcome will be achieved if the EU can reach agreement with these countries. We shall have an effective return to those countries. I think that's the best result. But we have several suggestions. They're being discussed here and now.
i-ed74970945eb2135-67	Mr President, the Prime Minister. As we have just heard here and as we have heard in recent months, we are in a very serious situation as a result of the refugee situation and the migration of refugees to Sweden. That is something that almost everyone agrees on, at least in this House. On the other hand, we may not fully agree on the seriousness of the situation or on what needs to be done to remedy this serious situation. There are numerous measurements, not least from the last week, showing that there is strong support among Swedish voters for a more restrictive immigration policy. There is also, Mr President, a nationwide campaign for a referendum on asylum immigration to Sweden. I therefore have a rather simple and straightforward yes-or-no question for Stefan Löfven: Can Stefan Löfven consider listening to the Swedish people's opinion on this issue and thinking that there is a special referendum?
i-ed74970945eb2135-71	Mr President, I would like to I'm going to go banging on the beetroot, Mr. Åkesson: No, we're not going to have a referendum on whether to comply with international conventions or whether or not to help people in need. We shall have a very serious discussion on how to do this in the best way. I also know that in Sweden there is a very strong sense of solidarity with people who are having a difficult time. Now, however, we have a situation where we see that there are parts of the welfare that do not work properly. Then we must also express it. Then we will make sure that we significantly reduce the number of asylum seekers who come to Sweden and ensure that they apply for asylum in other EU countries. But this is not the main objective of Sweden's democrats. You've never been for asylum seekers. Whether there's ten or ten thousand, there's too many of them. You have a completely different agenda with references to people's culture, religion and I don't know everything. Your concern is not asylum seekers, but you have quite different concerns.
i-ed74970945eb2135-75	Mr President, I would like to My concern is partly that we are undermining welfare in Sweden and partly that we are helping far fewer refugees than we could if we had an effective, humane refugee policy in contrast to that of Stefan Löfven. I can still say thank you for the answer, because it was very clear – a very clear no. Stefan Löfven is not interested in listening to what the Swedish people think on this issue. He is not interested in holding a referendum on asylum immigration to Sweden. Thank you for that answer. I am sorry for that answer. In view of the discrepancy between people in this House and people out there in reality with regard to the view of asylum immigration in particular, it would be appropriate for us to ask the people how they see it here. But this government is not prepared to do so. I'm sorry to hear that, but I'd still like to come back.
i-ed74970945eb2135-78	Mr President, I would like to As far as welfare is concerned, it is a question of how Sweden will eventually be able to actually maintain welfare. I believe that everyone but perhaps the Swedish Democrats sees that if people do not come to Sweden, we will have a very problematic future because we have an increasingly ageing population. We need to get people into the country. What we are saying now is that this is fundamentally positive. That is what you Swedish democrats are having such a hard time for – you cannot see that it is positive that people come from other countries. That's where your trouble lies. You do not like people from other cultures or other religions. You're having a hard time with that. We think this is a good thing, because it enriches our country. It has done so far, and it will do so in the future. But we will receive in such a way that we are able to manage the reception well and can ensure that our welfare can continue to develop. That's what we're doing now.
i-ed74970945eb2135-83	Mr President, I would like to In a very short time, the number of asylum seekers has increased sharply. It's about 80,000 in just two months. The situation is extremely strained in terms of reception. We have full respect for the fact that the government chooses to make a number of proposals, although we see the proposals as very problematic and will not support them. We see another way. Instead of stopping the number of asylum seekers, we could offer refugees protection but with a much lower standard than hitherto. While we have to deal with the emergency situation, we also need to think ahead. 80,000 people have come here in a short time. If they are to become part of Swedish society, come in and get jobs and housing, quite major reforms are needed. If we cannot present and decide on them now, we will have to take urgent action and there will be panic.
i-ed74970945eb2135-87	Mr President, I would like to Anders W Jonsson addresses a very important subject. It is not that the government has not put forward proposals. We have made proposals and we will continue to make proposals. That was also what the previous speeches were about, that the people who come here will, once they get their residence permit and provided that we are doing the right thing, bring a great deal to our country. I don't believe in a development where we say they're going to get a little less protection, that they're going to live in a different society than the rest of us. It's not Sweden. In Sweden we stick together. In Sweden, we make sure that everyone, whether they have lived here for a long time, has just arrived or is coming next week, will receive an education if you need it to manage. Perhaps by agreement between the trade unions and employers' organisations, we should also have a fast track into the shortage professions. It is the type of individual measures that apply regardless of whether you were born in or have just come to Sweden.
i-ed74970945eb2135-90	Mr President, I would like to I appreciate that the Prime Minister has a genuine interest in doing something in this area, but unfortunately the government's policy is going in the wrong direction. When the government makes proposals, it is about increased taxes and more regulatory problems in a situation where we know that the key to the new arrivals to enter Swedish society is called small businesses. We are in a completely new position. It is not just about taking care of asylum seekers, it is also about how we can get the 80 000 people who are already here, those who have come in recent months, to get into Swedish society and get jobs and housing. Here we have to think outside the box, and that is why my question is: when will there be radical proposals for reform not only of the Swedish housing market but also of the labour market? We have to think a whole new thing. It is not possible to fall back to the traditional way and say that there are people here who are supposed to have education and who are going to work that way. When are the proposals coming from the government?
i-ed74970945eb2135-93	Mr President, I would like to I think we agree quite a lot on the need for people to be able to establish themselves. I recently visited a hospital in Skövde where three Syrian doctors practice. They alternate practice with language studies and other studies they need. For them, the solution is not to reduce taxes. For them, the solution is that we have taxes so that there is a healthcare system where they can do good, because they want to do good. That's the solution. A few simple approaches, such as lowering taxes and having worse conditions and conditions for some and better for others, are not the solution. On the other hand, language training should be given as early as possible. That's why we're getting started on it already in the asylum accommodation. We have agreements between municipalities and Arbetsförmedlingen on how they, together with employers' organisations, will work much more actively with the Knowledge Lift. They want to do it. I have been sitting quite recently with representatives of several companies who want to make sure they get people.
i-ed74970945eb2135-97	Mr President, I would like to Prime Minister Löfven! On 2 October, the Prime Minister received a letter from President Anote Anote on the Kiribati island group in the Pacific. His country is about to disappear. It is one of several countries that, as a result of the rise in sea levels, is in danger of falling completely if climate change continues. The entire population of Kiribati of 100,000 people can become refugees along with the tens of millions of refugees that already exist. The President has an appeal to other leading politicians and to you, Stefan Löfven. He wants us to promise each other that no new coal mines will open, not a single one, so that perhaps we can avoid the disaster. Several countries in the Pacific have already signed and promised President Tong that. I know Stefan Löfven will meet Anote Anote in Paris for the climate summit. My question is: can Sweden, as the first European country, sign up to this very reasonable request from the Kiribati archipelago?
i-ed74970945eb2135-100	Mr President, I would like to I've already met President Tong. I have also met representatives of Tuvalu and Solomon Islands. Sweden has a very good dialogue with these states and enjoys a high level of confidence that we have such a strong climate commitment. We agree that we need to work together, not least in the run-up to COP 21 negotiations in Paris. The comprehensive agreement must be legally binding and ensure that emissions are cut so that we know that we are going as far below two degrees as is ever possible. It is that in order for this to happen, everyone must fulfil their commitment. It can be done in different ways. It is clear that we cannot have any ambition other than that we should have as little fossil as possible, absolutely, but at the same time it is up to all individual countries to deal with that situation. Just as Sweden should handle its situation, other countries should handle theirs. The aim is that we should get as far below two degrees as possible, it is established, and we have very good cooperation with these countries in the run-up to the COP 21 negotiations in Paris.
i-ed74970945eb2135-104	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Prime Minister. I share the view that all countries should do everything they can, and then we should reasonably be able to say that we should not open any coal mines. The more countries that do so, the more pressure there is for the climate negotiations. I honestly do not understand why Sweden should not be able to sign it. That would be a positive message. Sweden has influence over coal mines. Right now, the state-owned company Vattenfall is negotiating to sell coal mines, perhaps to a Czech speculant. The risk is that Vattenfall will also sell the right to open new coal mines. If we did, we would go against what President Tong wants, namely to take responsibility for the climate. Can the Prime Minister at least promise that if Vattenfall sells its coal mines, they will not sell the right to open new open pit mines held by the company?
i-ed74970945eb2135-107	Mr President, I would like to It is important to focus on what is the goal. The goal is to keep the heating as far below two degrees as possible, and then we take different means to achieve it. Now more than 170 countries have submitted their commitments for the COP 21 negotiations. That won't be enough. We have to do a lot more. That is why we must have binding agreements. As far as Vattenfall is concerned, they have mandates from this House to act commercially. We have very clear guidelines for Vattenfall in terms of their environmental commitments, what they should live up to, and in this direction Vattenfall goes. Then Vattenfall and its management, the management, must be able to deal with the situation by both being a business and becoming a fossil-free energy company. That's what Vattenfall's mission is, and now the board and management are dealing with the situation. Then we should not believe that Sweden can completely control other countries' natural resources.
i-ed74970945eb2135-111	Mr President, I would like to I was going to continue on the theme raised by Anders W Jonsson. Whether regulatory changes are taking place or not, it has arrived and there will be a great many people coming to our country. I have great respect for organising tent camps and everything possible, but the big challenge comes next, when these people are to be integrated into Sweden. It is symptomatic that the Prime Minister is talking about Syrian doctors. Okay, validation should go faster, I agree, but it's not the academics who will be the challenge. An extremely large group is coming to Sweden with a very low level of education. They haven't even gone what we call elementary school. That is where the challenge lies. We have recommendations from the OECD, the IMF, the Financial Policy Council, the Institute of Economic and Monetary Affairs and others, and all point out that if we are to solve the problem, we must lower the thresholds into the Swedish labour market. Does the Prime Minister share the view that, in order to improve integration, we must lower the thresholds into the Swedish labour market?
i-ed74970945eb2135-115	Mr President, I would like to It depends a little on what the Liberals mean by lower thresholds. We do not want a society that is divided by saying that if you come from a particular region and a particular country you should have special conditions. We also do not want a society that is based on the fact that, in general, we are going to have worse conditions. We will assimilate the people who come to Sweden in such a way that we get real exchange of their knowledge and experiences. Then it is no more remarkable than that you work in much the same way no matter where you come from in the world. If you need a longer education, you should have a longer education. That's why we invest so much in, for example, the Knowledgelift. We must have a variety of possibilities. Some people need to go to folk high school. Others are ready for university studies. Some people need more basic training, and that's the help they need. We should remember that Swedish companies do not ask for those with the lowest education; they ask for them with good education. Then people should have good education.
i-ed74970945eb2135-121	Mr President, I would like to The divisions that the Prime Minister is afraid to create are those that are now being created with great alienation. If the threshold for entry into Sweden is at a certain level, while the threshold for entry into the labour market is at a much higher level, in between there will be a number of people caught up in exclusion. That's what's happening. Like the Prime Minister, I visited Skåne yesterday. I was at various receptions in southern Skåne, in the Trelleborg area. A large group are teenage boys from Afghanistan. There are those who have not attended school at all. They're in their 16s, 17s or 18s. The Prime Minister says they're gonna graduate and go to college. Excuse me, it is a beautiful vision, but in many cases it will not be realistic. Is it better, then, that they live in exclusion and go on grants throughout their lives, or should we create a labour market that allows them to become part of the Swedish labour market? What happened to everyone coming, Prime Minister?
i-ed74970945eb2135-123	Mr President, I would like to We will find precisely the different instruments that work for different people in different situations. That's absolutely right. I can very well imagine mixing internships with education and so on. But I am opposed to the stereotypical view that those who do not have a certain level of education should have bad jobs with poor wages and so on. That vision doesn't hold. It's not Sweden. It is not the Swedish model. We are now investing and investing in order for people to have an opportunity for education. We have never had as many vacancies in Sweden as at present. That's over 90 grand. Now unemployment is falling. Employment is now rising. The employment rate is now increasing. We obviously have a task to arrange this for the people who have come in, but we will keep the Swedish basic model. That is how we will strengthen welfare in the future as well.
i-ed74970945eb2135-125	Mr President, I would like to We still have the images of the retina from the horrendous crime in Paris, and the threat of terror against Sweden has been raised. Last week, the Prime Minister presented measures to combat terrorism better, and we Christian Democrats welcome the cross-block talks that are now under way to speed up the development of legislation, tools and resources to take serious action against terrorism. In order to reduce the number of people travelling from Sweden to participate in battle for IS, preventive work is very important. This is a major problem in Malmö, for it has neither an action plan nor a coordinator for the work against Islamic extremism. Terrorist expert Magnus Ranstorp said in Sydsvenskan: The problem is denied, and it is difficult to prevent radicalisation. I am aware that the Prime Minister does not rule precisely in Malmö, but your party colleagues in the Social Democrats do. What is your message to them?
i-ed74970945eb2135-128	Mr President, I would like to The message is that this is a very serious problem that we need to address at both national and local levels. I definitely believe in a coherent national policy, a strategy for how this is to be done. After all, we have a national coordinator appointed at the time of the previous government, which I think was very good. This work is under way, and that person, Mona Sahlin, has today presented new proposals based on the fact that we must have more knowledge at national level of why we can at all think of liaising with such forces and also be able to prevent it. Then it wants us to have local resources in place to do so, so that you know who to call, where to get help and get a dialogue and a start on a conversation with that person. It is this type of concrete action that is needed. It is a collaboration between the nation of Sweden and the municipalities. Among others, Malmö is in question.
i-ed74970945eb2135-129	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. I welcome the Prime Minister's self-criticism, on behalf of all parties, at last week's press conference. We've been naive. Now is not the time for political bickering, but for action. This applies in Malmö, Sweden's third largest city. I am worried when we get reports that there are no concrete action plans and coordinators, while we know that Malmö is one of the cities where the most people have travelled from Sweden to these war zones, where they participate in horrendous acts in IS' name. It is clear that prevention must be improved. It is also important to see how we can extend the mandate of the national coordinator, which the Christian Democrats in the alliance government were involved in. It expires in June 2016. I welcome the possibility of extending that effort.
i-ed74970945eb2135-132	Mr President, I would like to It is imperative that we continue with these efforts as long as the problem is so great. Probably over 300 have left, and about 120 have returned. Many of them have an ability, even if they may not have any intention. The Security Service has a good overview of these people, but it is a huge problem. For me, it is amazing that these powers can be applied at all, but to us knowledge is important. We need to understand the powers. Now this development work is under way. It starts in Gothenburg, Malmö, Borlänge and Örebro. Then we want to develop it, so that we get both a broad national approach with experience and knowledge and local opportunities to be close to people when these things are happening.
i-ed74970945eb2135-135	Mr President, I would like to At European level, we are now seeing worrying developments in refugee policy. We see how it is about to be created a race to the bottom between different countries, and that is something that scares many of us who live in Sweden and in Europe. However, despite the EU's shortcomings in resolving the refugee crisis that is now in place, the EU itself is in fact the only solution in the long term. The Prime Minister has already done good work on these issues in the past. My question is this: how will the Prime Minister continue to work in the serious situation that is currently taking place, and what can the Prime Minister do to ensure that, in the long term, we have a sustainable European refugee policy in which the right of asylum is safeguarded?
i-ed74970945eb2135-137	Mr President, I would like to This is a strategically very important question that Magnus Manhammar is asking here. I fully share the view that the solution to the European continent is in the EU as a whole. Had the 28 Member States of the European Union dealt with this better, we would certainly not have had the situation that we have now. Then we could have handled it. Now the EU is not successful, and responsibility for it lies primarily with the Member States of the European Union. I am not putting this on the Commission or others, but it is actually the Member States of the European Union that have not succeeded. We need to find another system that works. It is the EU's external borders that we must control. The moment we get it, we also have the opportunity to have legal ways into the European Union, not the uncontrolled migration that we have now. This is about cooperation with Turkey. We need to make hotspots work. We need to make the redistribution work. That's where the solution lies. This is very important strategically, and we are very committed to this. I would say that it is closest to us to conducting that discussion.
i-ed74970945eb2135-141	Mr President, I would like to There is a great deal of concern in global development today, with dire consequences for people. What is most of the thought has been touched upon by several questioners: terror, terrorist threats, war, persecution and the consequences this has for people on the run. I am therefore very pleased that the Prime Minister has touched on those issues in previous interventions. Another issue that the world's countries are now gathering around is how to stem climate change. The Paris Summit is on the way. What is the government doing to bring about a strong agreement on this predestined issue at COP 21?
i-ed74970945eb2135-143	Mr President, I would like to I would have liked this issue to have received more attention, because it deserves so much attention. As I have said before, we must focus on getting it as far below two degrees as possible. Among the best Sweden can do is be forerunners and show that we ourselves do what we want others to do. That is why it is important to invest in the transport sector, more rail traffic, cleaner cars and so on. But it is also about energy efficiency, climate investments in municipalities and county councils and so on. That is the kind of action we can talk about, and we can say: Yes, we should move towards a fossil-free society. We will also be one of the world's first fossil-free welfare countries. We're talking about welfare now. This is good stuff. It is good forces that we start when we really start the journey towards the fossil-free and to be forerunners. Then we will seek out like-mind, engage in dialogue with them and get as much pressure as possible so that we get a good binding and fair agreement in Paris.
i-ed74970945eb2135-148	Mr President, I would like to Prime Minister! The message that the Islamic state marked the Assyrian home in Mosul with last year when they started their genocide was to convert or die and the caliphate is here. Now the threats have also reached Sweden. Last month in my hometown Tynnered in Gothenburg, the home of Swedish-Assyrian entrepreneurs was marked with the same red colour and the same threat. In addition, Gothenburg completely lacks an action plan against terrorism. And many Swedish media report that LGBT people and Christians in Swedish asylum homes are threatened with life, among other things, because they wear crosses. I think these are unacceptable acts that are being committed. At the same time, the government is completely silent on these two issues – it concerns asylum homes, and it concerns Christians in the suburbs. Mr President, I would like to My question to the Prime Minister is: What does the Prime Minister intend to do against the increasing threats to Christians and homosexuals in Swedish suburbs and asylum homes?
i-ed74970945eb2135-151	Mr President, I would like to First of all, the government has presented a strategy against terrorism in the six months ahead. There is also much in the line that the questioner raises. It is important to prevent, prevent and complicate as far as possible. Of course we have to stand up to what is a hate crime. We must also be prepared to take the necessary measures against those who spread this and do directly criminal acts. This is often a crime. We have proposed investigating the possibility of camera surveillance at places where people feel threatened. I think that is one such measure. We must ensure that security is strengthened as far as ever. It applies wherever you are, whether it is in a synagogue or wherever it may be. All people in Sweden have the right to safety and security. We're gonna stand up for that.
i-ed74970945eb2135-154	Mr President, I would like to Soon, two weeks have passed since the terrible terrorist attacks in Paris. France and other European countries have since intensified their fight against terrorism. Here in Sweden, the threat level has been raised one more step. For the first time, an EU Member State has requested assistance under Article 42(7) of the Treaty of Lisbon. We know that France has received an offer from Germany to support France with troops in Mali. My question today to the Prime Minister is then: what has come in from France to Sweden, and what has the government planned to support France in accordance with this request and that we should of course be prepared to help and support France as much as we can?
i-ed74970945eb2135-157	Mr President, I would like to First of all, it is very important that we make it clear to France that we are standing up with and beside them and that all countries are doing so. That's what's done. I think that's a sufficiently important signal. But that's not enough. There is, of course, a discussion about what the government can do. But it should also be based on what France actually needs, and it can be different things. There are two principles I think you should follow here. One is: What does France need for support? The second is: What can Sweden do best? How do we support it best? That analysis is ongoing. We're not discussing troops on the ground. I can tell you that. But there are many ways to assist France. It could be logistics. It could be a matter of human resources. Let us conduct this discussion together with France so that they get the best help based on what Sweden can do best!
i-ed74970945eb2135-160	Mr President, I would like to On 11 November, the Government voted on its draft amending budget. On 12 November, an additional amending budget was presented – forward planning is perhaps not the strong suit of the government. In that budget, another SEK 11 billion is being spent to finance the costs of immigration – only on this page of the year. It is claimed that the funds are intended for welfare, even though the bill explicitly states that it intends to finance refugee-related costs. You don't make the bet more conditional than that either. The risk is therefore obvious that money will be lost in ineffective municipal labour market policies or subsidised fake jobs for newcomers. I have two questions for the Prime Minister: How is it that the government does not choose to ensure that these resources go to the core business of welfare? How is it that it is not chosen to finance this within the existing framework of the migration and integration budget, but rather to borrow?
i-ed74970945eb2135-165	Mr President, I would like to When reality changes, it has to be taken into account. We may differ in this regard. But we have all seen that reality has changed drastically. Municipalities and county councils say: We can handle this situation. We're making a real effort. But we need more resources. Then we think it is right for them to have more resources. We also think it is right for civil society to have more resources. Therefore, the municipalities, county councils and civil society are given more resources to handle this. People are here. People who are here should be well cared for. The Swedish democrats, who want to reduce funding for municipalities by 90 billion, naturally think that it is a concern that they will receive another 10 billion instead. I understand that this problem arises for the Swedish Democrats. But we're gonna hold on to this. Municipalities, county councils and civil society should have the best possible conditions to help people.
i-ed74970945eb2135-169	Mr President, I would like to In these times, many people have chosen to come to our country. It is people who have fled war and who want to contribute to our common welfare. The RUT reform has in recent years meant that a lot of new Swedes have actually got their first job. It is now over 20 000 people who are employed in a sector that previously did not exist at all in our country. Until the government announced a halving of the RUT deduction ceiling, forecasts were made that 16 000 new jobs would actually emerge in our country. Therefore, I would like to ask the Prime Minister if he is not prepared to reconsider the decision to halve the ceiling for the RUT deduction, so that more people have the chance of their first job. Or is consideration for the Left Party and Jonas Sjöstedt more important than 16 000 new jobs?
i-ed74970945eb2135-172	Mr President, I would like to One should be very careful with these exact calculations, just what a certain tax increase gives in terms of the number of jobs. I've seen a number of those calculations, and I won't be impressed by them very much. However, you can make assumptions: Will there be fewer or more jobs? What actually gives you a job? We are convinced that number one is that people get a proper education so that they become employable. That is exactly what the OECD is telling us. It is knowledge and conversion that is needed. That's the most important thing. We did this in the previous migration agreement anyway. We said: We can think of more areas for RUT-yes. But it's not about the amounts. No, that's not what it's about. The reduction in the amount that we did affects very few people. And it is not the most important measure that relatively wealthy people get even more deductions. That is not what brings people who come here to work and education.
i-ed74970945eb2135-176	Mr President, I would like to I would like to add my question to Jonas Eriksson's and draw attention to the fact that we actually have to cope with jobs and welfare on a planet that is still habitable as humanity knows it. The Prime Minister will attend the UN climate summit next week. Here the countries of the world come together to try to bring about a global and fair agreement that reduces our emissions. Unfortunately, we already know that the emission reduction commitments that the countries of the world have submitted to the climate summit will not be enough to take the world below two degrees of temperature. Therefore, it is all the more important that we succeed even better at the climate summit, but also that we bring other actors – municipalities, companies and others – to work on climate change and to reduce our emissions. How does the Prime Minister think we can go further that way?
i-ed74970945eb2135-179	Mr President, I would like to That is a very good question, because it points out that this is not something you can only decide and so it happens, but it is the case that you have to have many actors in society. All actors should be involved; that's when it starts to happen. We should also be aware that Paris is not a conclusion, but it is the starting shot. That's when the job starts. This has also led the government to have good contact with civil society and to hear from them how they view the situation ahead of the negotiations and also the discussion after the negotiations: what are we going to do together? It could be Diakonia, Greenpeace, Nature Conservation Association – you name it. We want a very broad collaboration with them, and we also have a collaboration with companies and municipalities under the term Fossil-free Sweden. Everyone has said that they want to be there, and I see when I talk to them that they have thought about it. They have a comprehensive strategy, and when we get an exchange at that job, we will be able to make real use of the climate.
i-ed74970945eb2135-183	Mr President, I would like to As several speakers have already mentioned, we are in a difficult situation with regard to migration. Much has been done. It is an enormous tragedy, not least for all those who are forced to flee war, oppression and persecution. Sweden has taken and takes a great responsibility. We'll be proud of that. It is important that more EU countries now take greater responsibility and that we get a proper distribution. For those we have already received, it is important that we achieve good and well-functioning integration. Then education, language and work are extremely important. The government's employment policy has partly driven into the ditch. It was a high tailfare for the election. It promised the EU's lowest unemployment in 2020, it was a 90-day guarantee and it was a trainee job. Trainee jobs have become one. The 90-day guarantee is not quite in phase. On the other hand, RUT and ROT and tax shocks against jobs have been delivered.
i-ed74970945eb2135-188	Mr President, I would like to If after a few months you say that the trainee jobs will not go well, then you have a little too short sight. It is a completely new measure that is being implemented. I will be honest and say that the forecasts for how many this year may be have been turned down, but in a number of years it will be in about 10,000 places. It will be very important for us to get a good labour market going. We also see that we actually have 40 000 fewer unemployed, despite all the warning bells and alarms from the bourgeois edge that our proposals would be a complete chaos for the Swedish labour market. About 80,000 more people are employed. The employment rate is increasing. Unemployment is falling. It sinks quite sharply for young people, and that is a good thing. If they want and can get action, then we are ready, but if they do the jobs themselves – fine.
i-ed74970945eb2135-191	Mr President, I would like to It can be noted from the Prime Minister's speech that in terms of jobs it has not been entirely uninteresting to steer the Alliance's budget. With the current situation, many municipalities find it very difficult to recruit especially SFI teachers, and they are now looking to the state for support in this. At the same time, the government chooses to go forward with what is called the teacher's salary lift where the SFI teachers are not included. This means that it will be less profitable to train precisely as a SFI teacher and more profitable to choose to train to some type of teacher. This risks further aggravating the situation with the lack of SFI teachers.
i-ed74970945eb2135-195	Mr President, I would like to It is a heartbreaking logic that there will be problems recruiting teachers when we make a substantial effort on teachers' salaries that are much wider than the previous government. We'll have more opportunities in that case. We are making a special effort at SFI teachers because we need more people to contribute there, but the conditions for the teacher's salary lift have been set up together with the social partners and will be handled locally. How it is then distributed is up to them. This gives thousands of teachers more money. It will increase the attractiveness of the teaching profession, and it will be extremely important in the job ahead of us in raising school outcomes. So there is no contradiction whatsoever with what we are going to do to get more teachers involved in SFI.
i-ed74970945eb2135-198	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask the Prime Minister about the government's work on the establishment of those people who are now fleeing and seeking protection in Sweden. There has been intensive work going on among the authorities and municipalities to ensure that these people receive a dignified reception and a dignified welcome. In addition to this, however, there has also been an enormous commitment among NGOs and peoples' movements and civil society, something that concerns me a little more deeply as a cultural politician. At home in Alingsås I meet many of these heroes who every day make important efforts for people who come here to learn the language, feel security and get into society. My question concerns how the Prime Minister and the Government are working further to take advantage of all the commitment that exists around the country. How do you intend to support these NGOs and study associations?
i-ed74970945eb2135-201	Mr President, I would like to The direct answer with regard to NGOs is that we have now further extended SEK 200 million to civil society because of such a fantastic effort. These are both craft, for example on the educational side or other, and human contact. That is the most important thing. The more human contact between people who live in Sweden and come to Sweden, the better opportunities to continue building a stable and safe Sweden. It is therefore the most concrete effort we make, but it is also the case that all the possibilities are included in the agreements we conclude with the municipalities on initiatives, where cooperation with Arbetsförmedlingen is important. It is only imagination that sets limits, and there I see a very natural part also for civil society.
i-ed74970945eb2135-203	I would like to thank the Prime Minister and fellow Members for this Question Time and to declare it closed.
