i-92919def8f4ff654-7	Mr President, I would like to In this budget debate, we are dealing with Category 10, financial security in the event of illness and disability. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 1 from the Moderates. Of course, we also support our other reservations. We present our position on the allocation in a separate opinion. Sweden is often described as one of the world's best countries to live in. But Sweden faces many challenges, not least regarding the increased costs of sick leave. How can one of the world's healthiest countries have one of the world's most sickly absent populations? It is a great loss for the individual when illness leads to exclusion from the labour market, even though one wants nothing more than to work. Being part of working life improves living conditions and participation in society. Health insurance must therefore focus on returning to work, as far as possible for the individual. From a socio-economic point of view, the increase in the rate of sick leave is a major strain on public finances, as the number of hours worked leads to a fall in public income and increased expenditure. Mr President, I would like to Confidence in social security as a safety net is undermined if more and more citizens live on social benefits without contributing to the financing of welfare. Similarly, trust in the system will be questioned if the person entitled to funds from the transfer system does not receive it. Social security systems are designed primarily for employees. We Moderates therefore believe that a review must be carried out in order to increase the security of the entrepreneur. The compensation model for activity compensation in the event of extended schooling should be reformed so that young people do not automatically receive activity compensation solely on the basis that they go to special school. This often leads to lock-in effects. Mr President, I would like to In its report, the social security inquiry proposes a series of improvements to health insurance, including support for return to work. It is now high time that a number of the investigation proposals were proposed by the government and implemented. The sharp increase in the sickness benefit rate is very worrying and, in the light of this increase, the government's draft budget seems to be the only country in Europe to remove the longer deadline as remarkable. This also eliminates the possibility of participating in the labour market policy programme – ALI as it is shortened. Mr President, I would like to I have respect for the fact that the Social Democrats must implement some of their electoral promises in view of all they have so far broken. However, in view of the increase in sickness rates, the removal of the cut-off date appears to be a poorly selected election promise rather than a well-thought-out measure. It is appropriate to remind the Social Democrats of how the then Prime Minister Göran Persson put the then ostensibly sick leave numbers in focus by establishing in the budget proposal 2003/04 a vision of halved sick leave rates by 2008. It was a breathtaking vision that required force, for it was regarded by many as almost unattainable. Persson's former Minister for Social Security Anna Hedborg was instructed to investigate the matter. In short, she delivered her answer to the inquiry in spring 2006 and proposed that time limits be introduced to control the excessive number of passive long-term sick leave, which unfailingly led to early retirement and a life with only sickness benefit as a source of income. Because there were no time limits for reconciliation of the development of illness and work capacity, too many people were on sick leave for too long. This, in turn, led to too many cases leading to early retirement without any effort to investigate the ability to work or whether other possibilities were available to help. This also affected many young people, who were passively banished to exclusion and benefit provision for the rest of their lives. When the investigation was sent out for consultation, LO, among other things, came back with support for the proposals on time limits and felt that the longer deadline could be set at 15 months. Today, Mr President, the expiry of the deadline is double, that is to say 30 months, in that the alliance government carried out the reform proposed by Anna Hedborg's investigation in general. Why has the current S-government completely changed its mind compared to 2006? At the end of the day, the political dividing lines are about how we view the concept of disease. Unfortunately, there are diseases that require 100% sick leave. Of course, there are also diseases that, with new treatments, make it possible to work at 100 percent of their own ability. Health insurance reform must have a clear focus on strengthening the healthy. Do not let people be forgotten in unhealthy passivity! In its final report, the parliamentary social security inquiry argues that it would be possible to remove the longer-term deadline if rehabilitation measures were secured and effective for anyone who needs them. But what is happening now is that the government removes the longer deadline without having ensured that rehabilitation measures are in place. The sickness benefit rate for women is 13.5 days compared to men's, which is 7.2 days. This means that in October 2015, women's sickness benefit is 88 per cent higher than men's. Mr President, I would like to The increase in absenteeism is greatest among women and most evident in psychiatric diagnoses. The latter, in turn, contributes to the increase in the length of sick leave as sick leave with these diagnoses is on average considerably longer. The increase takes place in all measures except in the number of newly granted sickness and activity benefits, which have an unchanged value. In order to achieve the sickness benefit claim, it is primarily necessary to define the authorities concerned and to develop a joint action plan. The role and mission of the Social Insurance Agency must be strengthened. Mr President, I would like to The increased sickness benefit rate is a major challenge for Sweden, and the government lacks answers and strong measures to stem the increase. The healthcare queues, the lack of a clear mission for the patient's return to work and the government's lack of clarity regarding healthcare choices and private care providers is a major problem for Sweden. Of course, these factors do not help people to get back to work more quickly and adequately.
i-92919def8f4ff654-27	Mr President, I would like to Anna Hedborg's investigation has been discussed since 2006 as if we had carried it out exactly as it was written. The Moderates have no idea if we'd done that. Probably not. The fact that you've leaned against this investigation must stand for yourself. Does Lotta Finstorp seriously mean that a certain date when you can no longer be in health insurance is what is absolutely crucial if you get well or get to work? Is it not the efforts made to return to work, adapt work or a new job that are crucial? Why should you get poorer to get well? I will never understand that reasoning, and I am absolutely convinced that we Social Democrats had never done it. I say that in this House today, that is what has always been said.
i-92919def8f4ff654-30	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that Mr Andersson is raising the issue. When LO – Social Democratic Red – left its referral, they wanted even fewer months until the later deadline. I cannot speculate on whether you should have introduced it because you lost the election, but I have been in the Social Security investigation for four years and know exactly how the tone has gone there. We had a broad consensus that the important thing for the individual is that the authorities have the nail in their eyes as regards deadlines for the implementation of measures. I also do not understand how you think about removing the deadline in February. How have you Social Democrats ensured that rehabilitation measures are in place? The Swedish National Audit Office has recently presented a report showing that they are critical of the fact that the time limit is not working. What are you going to do in the future? There is also a proposal in the Social Insurance Survey that concerns a clearer mandate for health care to return to work. It could have already been in place. What happened to that mission? What do you think of that question? I think of everyone who has contacted me who is incredibly grateful that they have been helped to get back to work. Then the time limit has not worked well for others. But now you are leaving these people in passivity, just as it was before 2008. What measures will you take in February?
i-92919def8f4ff654-36	Mr President, I would like to Lotta Finstorp knows that a package has been presented with many points to improve the possibility of rehabilitation and return to work. But it's not just the individual's responsibility. The employer also has a responsibility. We know that ill health is increasing due to stress in the work environment and so on. There are many different parts. However, one report after another shows that the measures that you yourself have taken have not been effective. Maybe that's why the result is so shrewd. One result is that, at the end of the deadline and in the transition to a work-life test, the compensation for many people is lower. Some receive no compensation at all, but refer to supply support or to being provided by relatives. Is it a date that makes people healthy and return to work? We remove the date, not the measures that can help people to work. Answer me the question. Does Lotta Finstorp think that it is a date that makes people healthy?
i-92919def8f4ff654-39	Mr President, I would like to If the date is something one should fixate on, I wonder how it is that you want to retain the other deadlines. It is about the individual being able to put pressure on their authorities. It is Försäkringskassan, Arbetsförmedlingen and the employer. Now there's nothing left. After you have removed the time limit, it will look exactly the same as it did in 2006 when people were put into statistics instead of being included in society. What we see is that mental illness is increasing, especially in contact professions in the public sector. You run almost all the municipalities and county councils in the country. What does Phia Andersson say to her councillors? That's where the big problems are. Now the municipalities and county councils will also forget about the employees who are at home, absent and ill in burnout because there are too little resources in the municipalities. It's a lot about leadership. The public sector does not have the leadership it deserves. I have many counter-questions to Phia Andersson, and I look forward to hearing her speech. What do you say to those people who will not be able to make the demands that individuals have been able to do when they are approaching the limit? Why do you not remove the other time limits when a date is clear or definable? Why is it only the last date that is the problem?
i-92919def8f4ff654-43	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by supporting the special opinion of the Swedish Democrats and calling for the approval of reservation 4. It is perhaps somewhat unconventional to devote the introduction to such a debate to talking about work, although the previous speaker was on the same subject but with a different approach. But I was gonna do it anyway. Just as several speakers were talking about when we debated another area of expenditure the other day, work is the very basis for any welfare at all. It's kind of silly to have to say it, but it's obviously needed. Unfortunately, the illusion that there is a great never-ending cash to cash money out seems to be spreading increasingly in our country among politicians as well as opinion-makers. But that is not the case. There's no such cash. Therefore, Sweden and all other nations and states that want to stick with some kind of welfare citizens who work and pay taxes. The higher the ambitions for welfare, the more important the work is. All of Sweden's political parties, at least in an international comparison, have very high ambitions for welfare. As a matter of fact, that's the way it is. Although in this House, in our committees and elsewhere, we all still have relatively high ambitions for our country's welfare. The Swedish Democrats hold welfare high. I read a short passage from the section on welfare in our principle program: It is morally reprehensible to live in abundance without assisting neighbors and fellow citizens in need. Large class divisions and social injustice threaten security and cohesion, risk tearing the nation apart and must therefore be countered. At the same time, it is important to point out that too far-reaching a distribution policy can also have negative consequences. In an entrepreneurial and growth-oriented society, it must pay off to train, work and take risks. ..................................................... It is, among other things, this starting point that underpins our greatest effort in the area of expenditure that we are debating today. The cliché is so worn out that it almost risks falling apart when I pronounce it; I know that. But it is quite telling, so I say it anyway: Today's small companies become tomorrow's big companies and employers. The fact that small companies are growing and hiring is particularly sensitive to the economic risk of hiring someone with a fragile health or someone with a functional disability that can lead to greater sickness absence is a fact. The tougher the competition and the narrower the margins, the higher the threshold for those who for various reasons have been or are ill in some way. The Swedish Democrats want to remove that threshold. We want to see a reform of sickness pay so that each company can deduct sickness pay costs for up to nine average employees. In this way, the state takes over a very large part of the economic risk of hiring people who have a medical history, people who are perhaps most of all in need of entering the labour market. The reform would apply to all companies but, as everyone understands, it would primarily benefit smaller companies that are growing and, of course, benefit society as well as all the people with the proposal who have a lower threshold into the labour market. Mr President, I would like to I want to round off by talking warmly about the meaning of reservation 4, care of loved ones. For as much as I think society should be there when, for example, an elderly person needs help with a doctor's visit or similar, I think it is worthy and welcome that a loved one assists with this when conditions permit. I look forward to the day this proposal wins Parliament's voice and we can get to such a system.
i-92919def8f4ff654-56	Mr President, I would like to I read in this report that Sweden is doing well. There are more people working, and the companies want to hire. The socialist left-wing government beats its chest and says that it is the government of Lövven. All of a sudden they have forgotten that they have stood here and complained that throughout 2015 they have had to rule Sweden with the budget of the Center Party and the Alliance Government. Now one would look forward to governing with one's own budget and with the approval of the left - wingers. Now, Mr President, everyone will hear the difference between the Alliance Government's budget and the Promise Government's vision of the future in Sweden. The government states in its own budget that unemployment will increase by 24 000. The Center's vision is quite different. It is that Sweden will be one of the world's most successful countries economically and that it will be possible for everyone to work and develop – something that S apparently does not support. One important reason why I say that the S-government is not in favour of this is that it is proposing the removal of the longer deadline, as we have heard here today. People should again be forgotten, and sick leave should last forever without anything happening. This is scary for me and the Center Party. It's a human vision that I don't support. Surely we must, with all our power, do everything we can to help people get back to work, to support and help every single person back into a job. The Social Democrats simply say, "You suck. We don't want to bet on you. ..................................................... On top of that, they're breaking a deal. You must remember, all of you, that the government of Löfven has stretched out hands and wanted to cooperate. Of that there has been nothing, I can say – quite the contrary. Listen to me! In the Social Insurance investigation, mentioned earlier by Lotta Finstorp, we were very keen to agree to remove the longer deadline – if previous rehabilitation worked and the previous controls in the rehabilitation chain became a reality. In fact, the report says this: a longer time limit in health insurance is to be replaced by a regular check in which the Social Insurance Agency examines, at intervals of no more than six months, the capacity of the sick person to work, the need for work-oriented rehabilitation or whether it is justified to grant a sickness benefit. ..................................................... The government's preparation of the proposals should be waited for, it also says. Now, right now, the government is going to remove the longer deadline without waiting for any form of previous rehabilitation or seeing that it is a result of this. Then the Swedish Social Insurance Agency, the government's own authority, says that it will be longer cases of illness and the state will also cost more if the time limit is removed. Worst of all, I'm saying it's for the individual. Do not forget that it is about people – sick people, women and men – who need help and support to get back to work! If you are on sick leave you get worse economy than if you work and worse economy also in the future. The current legislation states that Försäkringskassan has a coordinating and supervisory responsibility for rehabilitation, which includes ensuring that rehabilitation needs are detected early and that initiatives and interventions are implemented without undue delay. The support shall be provided to facilitate contact for the insured person with other rehabilitation services. In addition, employers must fulfil their rehabilitation responsibilities. What makes you think, in the left-wing socialist government, that it would be quicker to implement this if today it were decided that the time limit would be removed? What makes you think it's gonna happen overnight? Försäkringskassan has had problems in making previous efforts and interacting with employers and Arbetsförmedlingen. The ISF has established that. Why do nothing about their recommendations to improve the rehabilitation chain and ensure that the task is carried out? I and the Center Party believe that we have authorities to listen to their evaluations and suggestions for improvements. Försäkringskassan's own analyst, Anton Färnström, says today that it is not the short sick leave that has caused sickness rates to increase. Then there is a reason to have a more distant limit that helps to finally have the opportunity to decide whether the person should go back to work or have sickness benefit. So, my friends, don't remove the time limit. Something you should have learned in Rosenbad during the time you sat there. Mr President, I would like to I would like to endorse reservation 6, which deals with the sickness benefit for entrepreneurs. The most important thing of all is to enable people to work, and then it is important to support employers in every way. In this context, it is important to realise that we should not go back to square one, as the government proposes, i.e. give the rehabilitation money from the county councils to Försäkringskassan in order for them to buy insurance medical investigations. It is not good, because it is the county councils that will contribute to getting rehabilitation and interventions, not Försäkringskassan. Mr President, I would like to With this, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 6.
i-92919def8f4ff654-78	Mr President, I would like to I think, Mr Zander, that it is rather presumptuous to take up Stefan Lövven's broken promises of agreements here. I would like to recall that the Centre Party at its meeting endorsed the December Agreement, and 14 days later it was broken. I think you should be careful not to talk about broken deals. Does Solveig Zander believe what she says, that a further 24 000 people would be unemployed if the other parentheses were removed? If you delete a date that makes people get less in their wallets, if you delete a date when you can very well deposit bets long before that date, why wait so long? Why are efforts not made much earlier for those who need them? It may prove a long time before that a person is unable to return because of what he or she has suffered. It is very strange that sick people should be more motivated to go to work if they get less in their wallets, while those who have work are more motivated to go there every day if you lower the tax and give them more money in their wallets. I don't understand the logic.
i-92919def8f4ff654-81	Mr President, I would like to It is extremely interesting to listen to Phia Andersson when she says that broken promises are nothing to mention in this context. We participated in an investigation for four years. The purpose of the investigation was to make health insurance better, to help people back into a professional life, that every single person would know that we from the state stood up to help them come back. We negotiated, and we agreed to remove the far limit in case the previous rehabilitation chain worked. Today's legislation says that a first effort should be made after 91 days, then after 181 days and finally after one year. It's not working. That is why we agreed that it was important to ensure that the previous rehabilitation efforts worked before removing the border. Now you take it away, but it can't get Phia Andersson to believe that the situation will change overnight. No, other measures are needed to make it possible, but you are not implementing them. I would also like to say that sick leave always leads to a deterioration of the economy, while work always leads to a better economy. It is therefore important to help people return to work and not extend sick leave more than necessary.
i-92919def8f4ff654-86	Mr President, I would like to It's strange that Solveig Zander says You believe, Solveig Zander, that overnight the conditions will be much better. So it is with the far parentheses. Over a night, it's gonna happen. The number of sick leave had begun to decline before the Alliance came to power. As early as 2004 – 2005 you could see that. On the other hand, it is interesting to note that since 2010, the whole of the previous term of office, despite the past parentheses, sick leave has increased. The consultation response says that it increases the cost for the state, but it does not take into account that it increases the costs for municipalities if people are allowed to switch to subsistence support. What makes it better? It may be better for the state, but it is not better for society and for the individual. That is exactly what we have seen, and that is why the proposal looks like it is. The far parentheses have no effect. It only causes anxiety, economic insecurity and harms people.
i-92919def8f4ff654-90	Mr President, I would like to Me, the Center Party and the Alliance don't want to hurt people. That is why we helped to implement the health insurance reform. We wanted to help people get back to work as quickly as possible. That's why the rehabilitation chain came into existence. Anna Hedborg, Social Democrat, was so wise that she realized it. She also understood that it is important to have a longer time limit, that it is important to be clear to people and say that if they have not received help before, if no one has seen them before, it should happen then. That, Mr President, put several people in an untenable situation when they got there. For this reason, we amended the legislation. We made it possible for people who needed a longer period of sick leave to receive it after the 914 days. That possibility exists today, but it is the early steps we are going to do something about. We will support and help employers so that they can take back people earlier. We will give healthcare more opportunities and a clearer mission to help with rehabilitation. That's what matters. The longer time limit only prolongs the agony for people, and as a center party I do not want to prolong the torment for anyone.
i-92919def8f4ff654-93	Mr President, I would like to All of us may at some point suffer sickness or injury. Then it is particularly important that there is security so that the individual can receive financial compensation if it has a disease or injury that makes it unable to perform its arbete. However, not all illnesses or injuries mean that you are away from work. We humans feel good being in demand and needed. Work means that the individual has an income but also that you have structure in everyday life, that you are in a context and that someone asks for you if you are not there. We have many who end up in alienation, and in the past there were even more. They went years and years into sick leave and sick pay without anything happening. Those who are so ill and injured that they cannot carry out a job should of course have the possibility of sick leave, but we have a duty to help people get back to work, if possible. Many people can and want to work. If it is only a few hours a week, it should be possible. As an individual, you should get the support and help you need to manage to get back to work. The Alliance government introduced a longer time limit in health insurance. We did not do it because we believe that everyone will be healthy when the deadline comes in. We did this because we know that there is a need for a proper reconciliation in which the individual receives the support and help he needs to get back to work if possible. Before doing this, there were a great many people who went year after year without the help and support they needed to get back to work. That's where we don't want to go again. It is a waste of resources, both with the individual's well-being and with the economy. Everyone has the right to receive support and help and to feel that they are needed in society. However, if the investigation concludes that you still lack the ability to work, you must of course have the opportunity to be reinsured. The parliamentary social security inquiry concluded that the deadlines should not be removed until we have other effective monitoring tools in place. We agreed on that. More than six months later, the government seems to have forgotten the agreement and wants to remove the deadline without replacing it with any other form of follow-up and evaluation to help the individual. Unfortunately, we will have a return to previous systems where the individual is forgotten and does not receive the support and assistance that we in the Liberals believe it needs and is entitled to. Health care needs concrete tools for the patient to maintain and regain his or her work capacity. Therefore, we think it is good to work more with developing Finsam and continue to give them greater commitment and freedom. That is why we welcome what the government is giving us. Sickness insurance should be a help when the individual has an incapacity for work due to illness or injury. But we in the Liberals do not think that it should fall out if someone chooses to do a so-called beauty surgery that is not medically conditioned. Therefore, we want the government to investigate this and to come back with a proposal where these sick leave does not burden the employer or the state. Of course, all individuals have the right to choose to do these procedures, but then they themselves must bear the full cost. Mr President, I would like to I request the approval of reservation 10. Otherwise, I refer to the specific opinion of the Liberals.
i-92919def8f4ff654-104	Mr President, I would like to I would like to remind Emma Carlsson Löfdahl that sick leave had begun to decline. Action was taken when one saw what development it was. It was not at all that they started at some horror scenario as it has been played over and over again. I've heard it all along. In fact, it began to be overcome, and the decline continued until 2010. Then something happened. Despite the distant parentheses, despite all the deadlines and despite all the good intentions of the previous government, something happened– things started to go up. Sick leave increased again and has increased since then. For four years you had the opportunity to do something, but I saw no action. Now all of a sudden everything should happen just because you remove a date that you see has no effect. Why wait so long before making all the efforts that are being talked about? Why wait? Why can we not remove a date that makes people poorer and creates more anxiety? If you are safe during rehabilitation, you will create better conditions for rehabilitation and interventions. Why wait?
i-92919def8f4ff654-109	Mr President, I would like to I am prepared to agree with Phia Andersson on a great deal. We know that sick leave fluctuates back and forth and goes up and down. Unfortunately, we do not always have the answers. We also know that we helped to ensure that by using support measures and working with rehabilitation, we had the opportunity to reduce sick leave. Reducing sick leave is not about correcting figures in the statistics, as we have seen before. It is about us wanting to protect the individual, that it should feel needed and get the help and support it needs to get back to work. I do not think that the time limit will solve everything. I don't think it's salvation. But I think it is part of this, and I am not prepared to agree that it has done no good. I guess who's right will have to tell the future.
i-92919def8f4ff654-113	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased if we agree that it may not have the effect it thought it would have. Now you've tried, and you've seen it. For ten years I have been working on coordination between authorities and have seen the impact of pooling resources for the individual, providing support in rehabilitation, making rapid efforts and ensuring that people have new opportunities. If Emma Carlsson Löfdahl knew how many I have been able to say: Goodbye, and congratulations on the new job! These are people who have been on sick leave for a long time. I know what might have an effect-- I've seen it, and I've been happy with these people. Don't tell me a date would have it! I'm willing to fight for it to go away. I know it's wrong, I know there are other possibilities and I want to see people go out in a new career if they can't go back to what they had. But remember one thing, which has not been mentioned by anyone in this debate, namely the employer's responsibility for the possibility of people getting sick. That part is extremely important to have with you in the further work.
i-92919def8f4ff654-117	Mr President, I would like to I have a completely different experience. I have an experience of being on sick leave for 11 years and receiving sickness benefit. I know what it's like to be forgotten. I know what it's like to go year after year and year in and not get any help and not get any support. When the sick leave or sickness benefit expired, I know how to get a letter home in the mailbox where you should fill out your duties. They copied what they had since the last time. They asked for a new medical certificate. Then the sick leave was extended. I know what it's like not to get the help and support needed to get back. I wish no one else that experience. I want us to have a functioning rehabilitation with fixed deadlines, so that each individual receives the help to which the individual is entitled.
i-92919def8f4ff654-119	Mr President, I would like to In the early 2000s, Sweden had among the highest rates of sick leave in the world. Although public health was generally good, more than 700 000 people were either sick or retired early. The early retirement group was enlarged by 140 people a day, of whom an excessive proportion were young. Only around 1 percent of them returned to work. At the same time, only half of the long-term sick people knew who was their contact person at Försäkringskassan. Almost no rehabilitation was offered. What did not make matters any better was that several studies showed that many long - term sick people themselves felt that they could work and contribute — if only they received support and help. A high rate of sick leave involves major social costs. But it also has serious consequences for the individuals affected. Behind the figures, behind the statistics – in the early and mid-2000s as well as today – are people who have all too often lost hope of a better future, with a feeling of being left behind, tired of not being part of a working community and not being able to contribute in the way they wanted – apart from the fact that the sick leave, of course, means a cut-off in the private economy. Mr President, I would like to The consequence of the situation prevailing in 2006 was that the Alliance government carried out several important reforms. A rehabilitation chain was introduced to ensure that sick leavers would have continuous contact and early individual support. Regular reconciliation points were set in order to facilitate the planning of rehabilitation measures and the continuous assessment of work capacity. The interventions were supported by a rehabilitation guarantee and a developed occupational health care service. Persons with sickness or activity benefits were given increased opportunities to try out work or study. In addition, county councils received a sick leave billion to give priority to sick leave receiving the care they needed. Major investments were also made in psychiatry and queue billions. The overall policy objective was clear. Rapid intervention in sick leave, individual support and continuous follow-up with a focus on rehabilitation would allow people to leave sick leave as soon as possible and return to work and everyday life. Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, we are now seeing how things are moving in the wrong direction again. All ill-health measures point to an increase in sick leave, and the inflow of new illness continues to increase. The other week, a report from Försäkringskassan declared that nothing indicates that the increase in sick leave is about to be broken. According to the Government's own forecast, the costs of sickness benefit and rehabilitation will increase by SEK 12 billion by 2018. Försäkringskassan now says that the Government's goal of reducing the sickness benefit rate from 10.3 to 9 days does not seem to be attainable. Instead, the Agency's forecast indicates that the sickness benefit rate in 2020 will be 13 days. There are several reasons why sick leave is now increasing, and it is probably wrong to throw that ball in some political direction. The increase in absenteeism is found in all diagnoses, but it is particularly strong in psychiatric patients. In addition, the length of illness continues to increase. The Christian Democrats are very concerned about this development, not least because the government seems to be focusing on meeting the challenges we see with completely the wrong measures. Mr President, I would like to We are opposed to the government's proposal to abolish the longer time limit in health insurance, the labour market policy programme and job introduction, because they have given people a new opportunity after a long period of sick leave. Now we see a risk that history repeats itself, that we turn back the clock to a time when long-term sick leave was turned back and then long, passive sick leave was not combined with either any rehabilitation efforts or regular contact with the Social Insurance Agency. Mr President, I would like to The estimates presented by the government itself in the budget bill indicate that the abolition of the longer time limit in health insurance will lead to approximately 7,000 more ongoing cases of illness at the end of 2016. According to Försäkringskassan, IFAU, Saco, Arbetsförmedlingen and several consultation bodies, this will also lead to the long illness cases increasing further. This is worrying, because we know that the longer a sick leave goes on, the worse the chance for the individual to come back. In addition, the proposal – according to the Social Security Inspection and IFAU for example – risks reducing the current incentives for both public authorities and individuals to make strong efforts to enable them to return to work. In other words, the government has decided to pursue a policy that they themselves, I think, know will increase sick leave, and they do so at a time when costs are already expected to increase significantly. At the same time, major tax increases on jobs and growth are presented, which further raise the threshold for entry into the labour market. That is simply the wrong way to go. Mr President, I would like to Let me also say something about prevention, which is, of course, another of the major challenges in this area. The Christian Democrats want to emphasise that preventive work must be seen in a long-term and broad perspective. It is simply not enough just to focus on the workplace and the problems that arise and can arise there. We need a policy that helps to reduce stress but also to create good conditions for improved public health. The possibilities for each person to get their own life puzzle together are, of course, influenced by the policies carried out in several different areas. For the majority of the Swedish population, it is about having increased economic room for manoeuvre. This requires a reduction in taxes, not least for low and middle wage earners. For example, parents of young children are concerned with freedom of choice in childcare, so that today's stressed parents and children can have more time with each other and the combination of parenting and working life is facilitated. Unfortunately, we see that the government is moving in the opposite direction and instead implements proposals that reduce the room for manoeuvre of individuals and families. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to point out that in the Christian Democrats' budget we allocate half a billion SEK annually to county councils in order to achieve qualitative results in terms of prevention and rehabilitation efforts. The reason for this is partly because efforts are needed to reduce the increase in sick leave and partly because we want to contribute to a more preventive and rehabilitative approach throughout health care, which we believe will eventually lead to better use of resources. In doing so, I would like to refer to the special opinion of the Christian Democrats and call for our reservation 3 in the report to be approved. Of course, we are also in favour of our other reservations, but for time to come, I am abstaining from calling for their approval in this House.
i-92919def8f4ff654-139	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mr Aron Courage for this speech. Having listened to the debate so far, however, I think that this debate needs some manners. It is striking that you are constantly coming back to what I would describe as the most absolutely unsuccessful measure in the rehabilitation chain and the re-imposed health insurance policy introduced by the Alliance. In fact, year after year since the expiry of the 2010 deadline, we have seen how disease rates have increased without the Alliance Government taking any measures to mitigate this. While sickness rates increased by 50 percent between 2010 and 2014, the former alliance government managed to secure over 100,000 individuals out of health insurance. It would have been good if they had returned to the labour market. With you and I both know it's not the truth. Eighty percent have returned to insurance again as new cases of illness. Many have been secured twice, and a great deal has been about to be secured a third time. It is these women that you are talking so warmly about who are now spinning around in insurance – poorer and still ill. It's a number-fixing thing that has meant that you've been hiding long cases of illness. You have secured these people and then collected them into the statistics as new cases of illness. Of course, therefore, the long illness will increase when we remove the longer time limit. That's because we on this government's side are not thinking of the numbers trixing, but actually making a real difference.
i-92919def8f4ff654-143	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his speech and the question. It is true that the rate of sick leave increased during the last parliamentary term. It's statistics, so to speak, and it's black and white. Nevertheless, I would like to say that the efforts made by the Alliance Government during their term of office had an effect – the rehabilitation chain and the firm reconciliations with the labour market. Not least, these people had a permanent contact with the Social Insurance Agency. The individual simply had the feeling of not being forgotten. There was a regular follow-up. This is important, and I believe that it has had an effect on sick leave. But this feeling is also important to the individual. Now we have a situation where sick leave is coming up. I said in my speech that I do not think that this ball should, as it were, be thrown politically from side to side. But we do have a situation where sick leave is increasing. Then I think we should think about how we can do something about it. The main action taken by the government is to remove the longer time limit. Then the question is: How does it lead to a reduction in sick leave? The government itself says that this leads to a slight increase in the number of sick people. Several referrals are also critical.
i-92919def8f4ff654-148	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mr Aron Courage for this. Now it feels like we are about to be able to do something about this debate. The truth is, as I said, I don't think we should throw these numbers at each other in any part. The truth is that when we last had a rise, the government of Persson took strong action in 2003. It was a half goal and an eleven-point programme. It was also co-financing. This meant that when the Alliance government took over, the sickness rates had dropped quite radically. This was then partly accentuated by the reforms introduced by the alliance government. We have now chosen to retain some of them, namely those parts of the rehabilitation chain where there is actually a trial. It is not done at the last time limit, but it just goes out there. I really must point out that the government is not just removing the longer deadline. Two months ago, the government presented a broad package of measures in seven different areas – several of them have been highlighted here today – with 25 different action points. They deal with everything from prevention, to employers' responsibility, to strengthening health care and strengthening the Social Insurance Agency in order to be able to carry out tests at the early deadlines. I therefore do not quite understand what the representatives of the bourgeois parties are talking about. Much of this rests, moreover, on the parliamentary social security inquiry in which we have both been involved. But we, as a government, will not stand by the action of the alliance government, which was by far the most unsuccessful, in which people were put into poverty and did not help to make people healthier, but rather to be a numerical one. This government wants to make a real difference to the people who are sick.
i-92919def8f4ff654-153	Mr President, I would like to Once again, I thank the Minister for Social Security for his speech. It is true that the government is taking some action. However, I maintain that the main focus of the debate is on the change that is being made with the lower time limit in health insurance, and that is what is most emphasised by the government. Of course, we see that this will lead to longer sick leave. I mean, that's the wrong way to go. It is the wrong option to choose at a time when we already have an upward trend in sick leave. I also object to what the Minister claims that the introduction of the longer time limit in health insurance would have been the most unsuccessful measure. I don't agree with that. You don't get well overnight just because a time limit is set. Of course it is. But this means that a firm reconciliation is made that gives people a chance. Although it is a relatively small proportion that has gone back to work after passing the longer deadline, it is still people who have come to work at this time and who would very likely not have done so if it had not been there. That is why I think that this is a little casual to the individual people who have actually benefited from this. I'm opposed to that picture. I think it is important for this fixed time to remain. There shall be reconciliations throughout the chain. That is why I think it is important that it remains, and I find it unfortunate that the government now chooses to go another way.
i-92919def8f4ff654-158	Mr President, I would like to marin, Gunvor, Lillemor, Eva, Ellinor, Berit, AnnaAnna-Carin, Bertil, Anna and so on are the names of some of the people who have been insured from health insurance since this became applicable on 1 January 2010 – over 100,000 people. There are as many as there are inhabitants of Borås, Västra Götaland's second largest city. It is about 1 100 – 1 300 per month, every month of the year without regard to illness or work capacity. After insurance, you must be offered to participate in the labour market policy programme introduction to the labour market at Arbetsförmedlingen for three months. If you do not get a job because of illness, you can get sickness benefit again. Thus, it has been found that they were insured out of work but were too ill to work and were remitted to sick leave, probably because no one took into account illness and work capacity in the insurance. A large proportion of those who have been insured have returned to health insurance one, two and three times and are on their way a fourth time. For many, the changeover has meant a significantly lower remuneration. This has led to a significant deterioration in the financial situation of many insured persons. In addition, support has increased in municipalities. Some people today are being supported by relatives. And there are reports, including from Kommunal, which show that women have made early withdrawals of their pension to support themselves, as they cannot cope with the anxiety and uncertainty that health insurance has caused during the illness – a decision that you have to pay for the rest of your life. When the decision on the reform was taken in the Riksdag in 2008, sick leave had started to decrease, and they had already done so since 2004– 2005. Following the implementation of the reform of 1 January 2010, as it appears from the budget proposal, we can see that since then sick leave has risen by 67%. It can therefore be assumed that the longer time limit has not had a significant effect on sick leave. Now we can see that the previous government has carried out a reform that has cost people financial security and has led to personal suffering and anxiety, without achieving the aim of the reform to reduce sickness rates. The current Red-Green Government believes that the reimbursement from health insurance should provide security and be provided during the time it takes to regain work capacity. The introduction of a time limit for the duration of sickness benefit is a derogation from this principle. The Government considers that the longer deadline neither promotes the rehabilitation process nor guarantees that insured persons receive the right assistance from the right authority or other actors. The committee believes that the purpose of health insurance is to provide financial compensation for loss of income in the event of a loss of working capacity due to illness. Labour market policy measures through the Employment Service should be considered, but only for those who can benefit from such measures. Preventing ill health is a responsibility that rests both on the individual and on the employer. In the case of illness, early intervention and treatment should create the conditions for return to work. It taught us the time when no one heard from us. We had measures to do this. Against this background, the committee now supports the Government's proposal to abolish the longer time limit in health insurance. I support the proposal in the report and reject the motions. Mr President, I would like to When the decision was taken here in this House to introduce the time limit, the bourgeois parties applauded. That applause has been a mockery of all the people who suffer from these insurance policies. I am so glad to be able to give these people some form of redress by removing the more distant deadline.
i-92919def8f4ff654-169	Mr President, I would like to Phia Andersson is strongly in favour of removing the time limit. She also says that the sickness rates went down before 2006, when we took over power. Why was that? Yes, it was due to early retirement or sickness benefits for the rest of their lives. That's why the sickness rate went down then. Does Phia Andersson think that they have been better off living with the lack of money that it means to have sickness benefit? It is said that it is important for employers to have responsibility – something that, incidentally, I also said in the speaker's chair but which Phia Andersson apparently did not hear – and that is urgent. In the draft measures that we heard the Minister present a few months ago, she also said that it was important that people should not get sick at work and that it was important for employers to assume their responsibilities. The current legislation should contact the employer after three months. With the new proposal, which you are now going to push through, you have to wait 18 months. Does Phia Andersson mean that it is better to spin around in an extension, which you say you should get, than to get a decisive one at some point in the rehabilitation chain?
i-92919def8f4ff654-172	Mr President, I would like to Indeed, in the case of early retirement, it was not they who changed the rates of sickness, but it was the efforts made in the form of collaboration between authorities to support the return of the individual to work. Suddenly we saw the effects of the collaboration groups out in the municipalities, which was also the idea when the possibility of collaboration was carried out. It had good effects, because all of a sudden everyone worked for the same individual with the resources they had. That's what lowered the sickness rate. That is also what continued to reduce sickness rates. Thus, it was not early retirement pensions that reduced sickness rates, but the measures taken to stop the influx of the sick and to enable those who had fallen ill to return to work. A great many of these measures also rested on employers, such as making rehabilitation plans with the employee. Solveig Zander says the individual would be in touch. I think it is a good thing that the employer does too.
i-92919def8f4ff654-175	Mr President, I would like to Phia Andersson did not really answer my question. And I must say: forgive me, but the Social Insurance Agency itself says that it was given increased responsibility to look at the possibility of granting a disability pension or sickness benefit before 2006 to get rid of the people who had been on sick leave for a long time. It's not something I'm making up. It is certainly the case that the cooperation bodies were useful, but no one can say that the reduction in sickness rates was not due to the early retirement of very many people. They are the ones asking today to return to work and try again after these years, and in many cases they have improved. Pre-retirement was the reason for shortening sickness rates, wasn't it? If you are now going to remove the far limit, as Phia Andersson says, what is it that says that sickness rates are decreasing? Is it not again that you are allowed to be on sick leave for as long as possible? Does being on sick leave for longer make you richer than getting help to get back to work and make money from full-time or part-time work? Isn't that much better? And why do you not do anything to improve cooperation with Arbetsförmedlingen or to get better medical certificates, as Försäkringskassan has been tasked for a long time now? Why don't you help make things better instead?
i-92919def8f4ff654-179	Mr President, I would like to Sickness rates for long-term sick leave are increasing, unfortunately, and this is due to mental illness. People are stressed on their jobs and have an enormous amount of responsibility but very little to say about. One day the thread breaks, and then the road is back long. Too little has been done for these people. Not enough has been done to prevent them from becoming ill, nor have they been priorities in health care and other matters once they are ill. If it is because the sick are more women than men, I sometimes think about the House at home. There's so much to do. We must try new ways and do better than we have done. We need to learn from what we see. When the decisions we make do not work, we must dare to let go of prestige and try new ways. It's the individuals worth it. They're entitled to that. Employers have a great responsibility to ensure that inflows do not increase. We need to use healthcare, the support functions that exist in society and, of course, the Public Employment Service to provide the individual with the support needed to get him or her back into the labour market. That's always the goal.
i-92919def8f4ff654-183	Mr President, I would like to It is clear that the Social Democrats and the Alliance have different views on the importance of participation in society and the working community – although it is perhaps only a few hours a week that you have the opportunity to get to work. All the people who are happy to have been able to get back to work to 100% of their ability do not count; it is the focus on others in this debate. The picture of the paradise of the past that Phia Andersson paints is very one-eyed. Will the sick leave be shorter because the time limit is removed? I'd like Phia Andersson to let me know. Is it less mental illness if we remove the time limit? It is in the public sector that most contact areas are located. The Social Democrats often own this issue because you are in a position of responsibility in most municipalities and county councils. I would like answers on how you ensure this in your municipalities and county councils out there in reality. The government's own expert authorities strongly dismiss the removal of the longer time limit as the long sick leave will increase. What's your analysis? What expert advice are you basing yourself on because you are removing the longer deadline? If it was so terrible, why don't you together in a broad majority try to find solutions where we turn a little on what hasn't been really good?
i-92919def8f4ff654-189	Mr President, I would like to I know people are happy to get back to work. There is nothing to prevent them from doing so in the future as well. I just want them to be many more. But I do not want them to be made poorer in the meantime, as if it were a motivation. This causes anxiety and prevents rehabilitation many times. All energy is spent on making the economy go together instead of putting it on rehabilitation. The anxiety takes far too much energy. Experience shows that the longer deadline contributes to this concern, so we remove it in order to create better conditions for people's rehabilitation. We want earlier efforts to be made with employers. We want more people to come back and not spin around the system and go into sick leave two, three and four times because it was not taken into account for work capacity and illness but only for a certain date. We're removing the date. We want the individual's conditions and work capacity to be taken into account and the opportunities available. Let our authorities, health care and the Public Employment Service work together to support the individual. I want to see more people in work than you did in the years when you allowed 100,000 people to spin around the system.
i-92919def8f4ff654-194	Mr President, I would like to Phia Andersson wants to see people at work. Now you move money from the rehabilitation guarantee to the administration at Försäkringskassan. But few people get back to work, even a few hours, if they don't get effective rehabilitation, so that's a weird priority. Phia Andersson puts pressure on the individual's economy and that it has become tough for those who are insured. Why, then, do you not choose to review the financial incentives for the individual rather than to remove the longer deadline? We would probably have been able to do that together in a good way-- if it is precisely that bug in the system that is the important one. You choose to remove ALI from February 1, 2016. Moreover, there is great concern among those involved in the employment phase, not least among social enterprises that are organisers. Nobody knows what's gonna happen. It is not only in this area that the government is unclear, but in all policy areas. The people present in these measures are often far removed from the regular labour market and have been on long-term sick leave.
i-92919def8f4ff654-200	Mr President, I would like to I don't know if we get the same reports, Lotta Finstorp. However, the report on the rehabilitation guarantee showed that it has not had a very good effect. Shouldn't we leave something that doesn't have a good effect and keep pumping money into a bad system? It's not taking responsibility. If an economic incentive is needed, it is best to remove the longer deadline, because it does exactly the opposite. It only transfers costs on other things. Either people make early withdrawals, are supported by relatives or are transferred to subsistence support in the municipalities. Well, that's good. It's not in government money anymore. But how does it help the individual? There is absolutely nothing to prevent Arbetsförmedlingen going in and supporting a process when you see that there is work capacity. If your work life effort was so effective, how is it that people come back to health insurance over and over again? I want them to fit, too. So let us realize that the decisions we made did not have the effect we thought. Let us together do something good about this and stop hugging bad suggestions.
i-92919def8f4ff654-205	Mr President, I would like to Since 2010, sick leave has increased continuously. Even relatively small increases in absenteeism give rise to significant increases in costs for the state. Although the increase occurs from a low level, any increase in sick leave and ill health is somewhat bad for the individual. If sick leave is long-term, it risks having tangible effects on the individual's economy and perhaps on the pension. Indirectly it can also lead to child poverty. In addition, the forecast points to a continued increase in sick leave. This development must be halted with a wide range of measures. The Red-Green Government has therefore presented an action programme with many proposals for increased health and reduced sick leave. We have also set ourselves a political target for sick leave, which is consistent with what the parliamentary social security inquiry considered to be a reasonable objective. Such an objective is important not only to express political will but also to ensure that all actors in society – such as municipalities, health care and employers – have something to relate to and work towards. This is just a start. More proposals will be made during the term of office. For example, it remains to be considered proposals made by the parliamentary social security inquiry in its final report More security and better insurance. Furthermore, in the 2016 budget bill, the government has presented an investment in increased staffing in social care for children and young people and is also taking measures to increase staffing in elderly care. In addition, the government is making major investments in schools. These measures are expected to improve the working environment and reduce the burden on staff in these areas, which should reduce ill health and sick leave. It is mental ill-health that increases most, not least among women and in women-dominated occupations. This is very much an issue of equality. That is why I think it is a good thing that the Government's action programme for improving health focuses on this very point. Mr President, I would like to With regard to the lower time limit in health insurance, it seems that the bourgeois parties believe in miracles. You can do that. But when the miracle consists of one long - term sick person getting well from one day to another just because a certain date occurs, there is reason to be skeptical. I don't believe in miracles like that. But I am convinced that most people who can also want to work and do social benefits once they are healthy completely independent of a fixed date. We also know that the expiry of the deadline has led to a deterioration in the economic situation of many people. As a result of the longer deadline, people who are still ill are being moved around in the government system. The handlers of perhaps primarily Försäkringskassan and Arbetsförmedlingen may devote time and effort not to rehabilitate people without administering them in the system, instead of focusing on those who really have a rehabilitation ability that can lead to either return to work or a step into work. The Social Insurance Agency can concentrate on the remaining remaining time limits in the rehabilitation chain, and where certain shortcomings have been identified, when the later time limit is removed. An increased workload mainly for Försäkringskassan's administrators, but also for Arbetsförmedlingens, has meant that they have not been able to do all the tasks that are included in the coordination and rehabilitation chain, such as follow-up at the mentioned other time limits that remain. In order to strengthen the treatment of health insurance and this area, the Government increases the Swedish Social Insurance Agency's funds in the area by 250 million annually from 2016. That is why I am pleased that we are now removing this constructed deadline which neither promotes the rehabilitation process nor guarantees that people will get the right help from the right authority or other actors. More and more young people are receiving activity compensation, which is a kind of fixed-term early retirement. It's not a good development. At the same time, the Swedish National Audit Office has produced a report showing that the Swedish Social Insurance Agency is not doing enough to make efforts and follow them up. The purpose of the activity compensation is not achieved, and the compensation does not live up to Parliament's and the Government's objective of an active approach to young people with reduced work capacity. The Swedish National Audit Office estimates that the government has been too passive in its governance, despite obvious and long-standing problems in the current system of activity compensation. Such a development is primarily due to the previous government. That is why this government has taken up the issue and is now reviewing the total amount of activity compensation. In this context, it is also important to mention Finsam, the Financial Coordination Associations. The government increases the funding of these and continues to place a task on the unions to give priority to young people with activity compensation. Otherwise, I would like to highlight the report of the parliamentary social security inquiry and its proposals for measures in the field of health insurance, which I know the department is now studying and analysing. Finally, I would like to touch on the motion for a resolution on the problem of border barriers in the field of social security relating to cross-border commutes tabled by myself and my colleague. It falls under this heading of expenditure and is dealt with there. It is answered, among other things, by the fact that the Nordic Prime Ministers signed a joint declaration on combating border barriers in the Nordic countries in 2013 that the Border Barriers Council, with a new strategy and action plan, started on 1 January 2014. So far, so good. However, there are still too many border barriers that affect the individual in everyday life. I assume that in the future, and at the level required, the government will put on a coal to resolve these issues. I am sure I will have reason to come back to this issue. Mr President, I would like to I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-92919def8f4ff654-219	Mr President, I would like to Since I did not receive so many answers from the Social Democrats Phia Andersson Rickard Persson, the Green Party– I think I will repeat some to you as well. Rickard Persson pays tribute to the parliamentary social security inquiry and its proposals. That is why I wonder: why does the government not wait for these proposals to be prepared before the deadline is removed completely without ensuring that rehabilitation measures are in place? That was exactly what emerged in the investigation and about which we had a broad consensus. It would have been very good if you had done that. Now in February the time limit will fall. What do you say to the people who will be left behind and forgotten? There is nothing to say that it will not be the way it was before 2008. How does Rickard Persson view it? What's the difference now? You are removing the lower time limit and money from the rehabilitation guarantee. In the speech, it sounded like it was a reinforcement. It has done so from the side of the Social Democrats as well. But it's money you're moving from the rehabilitation guarantee to processing. I have a question for Rickard Persson: Does Rickard Persson think that a person's illness can be improved after two and a half years, or is a diagnosis always permanent?
i-92919def8f4ff654-224	Mr President, I would like to Lotta Finstorp asks why we are removing the time limit and says that other rehabilitation efforts are not in place as stated in the parliamentary social security inquiry. I would say that measures have already been implemented and that measures are being implemented that will have a fairly rapid effect, I would argue. One measure is that we provide resources to Försäkringskassan so that the administrators have time to do what they are supposed to do, namely to work with the rehabilitation chain that remains partly. We do not remove the control points with the 90-day follow-up and the 180-day follow-up. They're still here. Should the administrators have time to do this and manage the coordination mission, it must be more resourced. The handlers have far too many errands to make it. That is the first step we have already taken. I know that the Social Insurance Agency does not stick to these control points. They can start with a coordination for a person long before 90 days. It occurs very much. Lotta Finstorp asks why we remove money from the rehabilitation guarantee. It's not worth spending money on something that doesn't work. We have established that the rehabilitation guarantee does not work. We spend the money on something that should work, namely the rehabilitation chain. That's two different things. You also asked me about something that I don't have time to answer right now if people get well at a certain date. I'll have to get back to that.
i-92919def8f4ff654-230	Mr President, I would like to Then we look forward to that answer in Rickard Persson's next line. The resources for Försäkringskassan will increase, as Rickard Persson says. But it doesn't reduce the inflow into health insurance. The issue is how you can ensure that the inflow is reduced. The money for Försäkringskassan hopefully makes the processing more efficient, just as Rickard Persson says. But how can Försäkringskassan and Arbetsförmedlingen be more effective when they do not have a time limit to work against? I would like to ask another question, because the Green Party is a government party and speaking of what the Minister said earlier in a line on number-rixing. The government's target of having the EU's lowest unemployment rate in 2020 raises questions undeniably. During Göran Persson's time as Prime Minister, the target was 4 per cent. This was never achieved, despite the boom and the fact that early retirement, long-term sick leave and labour market policy measures were removed from the statistics. I very much hope that there is no link between the government's unemployment target and the proposal to remove the longer deadline. I would like a comment on that, please.
i-92919def8f4ff654-233	Mr President, I would like to Lotta Finstorp asked if I don't think people will be healthy after the later deadline falls. Well, maybe they will, or they won't. Many remain in their illness and are forced to go to work in order to get some private economy. In some cases they become sicker after the measures there; it has been found that there is a worsening state. What I really wanted to ask Lotta Finstorp is whether she believes in the miracles I mentioned earlier. You seem to believe that people get well overnight, but that's not the case. Why are you doing what you're doing? I would like to ask Lotta that. Why do you think that the people who are sick should be punished financially? Why should you remove their compensation when the time limit falls and since there is still medical evidence from treating doctors and others who say that this person has activity limitations and cannot work? Do you not believe in the medical records of the doctors, and why do you want to punish these people financially? Reduces inflow? No, maybe it won't. However, as Lotta Finstorp has heard in the debate before, we have a broad programme of measures to reduce the inflow into health insurance. I strongly believe in this action programme and we will come up with even more proposals in due course. As far as unemployment is concerned, I do not remember what you asked. It will, of course, increase. We have migration, and in the short term unemployment is increasing, but in the longer term we do not think it will. Please answer the questions I asked you, Lotta!
i-92919def8f4ff654-238	Mr President, I would like to It's interesting to listen to Rickard Persson. I need to ask you a few questions. What was presented from the government was to develop a new strategy for health and safety at work. Rickard also mentioned how extremely important it is that the employer has a responsibility in this context. What kind of work environment strategy is to be developed? I wonder. Mr Rickard also referred to the fact that there were more measures in the social security inquiry that would be brought back with which to improve in this context. I wonder: What proposals are these? We know that one of the major problems in the long-term sick leave is that the county councils do not receive fast enough care and treatment and measures. There, rehab billions and queue billions have been useful. Now you're going to remove some of it. Then we know that the queues for treatment and so on are increasing in several county councils, among other things in those that are governed by Social Democrats. What are you going to do about it? Last but not least: Rickard Persson knows the Social Insurance Agency extremely well, because he has worked there as an official for many, many years. He knows how clear and how keen the Social Insurance Agency is to do a good job. Now the Social Insurance Agency itself said the other day that it is not possible to implement the reform, because it will not lead to what the government is seeking. Does Rickard Persson, as a former official, have any comments on that?
i-92919def8f4ff654-243	Mr President, I would like to I may very well have. I'll start with the last question. Now I haven't worked at Försäkringskassan for many, many years – I'm not that old. The other deadlines remain, and it is not always the point of view of the employer you have worked with. In this case, I mean that if only the administrators get peace and quiet and reinforcement, which we are now giving the Social Insurance Agency, working on the early control points – the 90-day and 180-day limits – it is far more important than coming much later and having out-insurance of people. Then Försäkringskassan can focus the work on the coordination mission on these early things instead. It will have a much greater effect, I believe. I asked Lotta Finstorp a few questions that Solveig Zander can now answer: Why do you think you should punish sick people financially? Why are you reducing the compensation in your draft budget for those who receive sickness and activity benefits? Why are you doing this? That's not good. Do you want to completely remove the sickness benefit and sickness benefit for those who are insured so that they get much worse finances and go and worry about it? Thus, a rehabilitation process may take longer. I would like to know, and I ask Solveig Zander how she responds to that. The various proposals of the social security inquiry are now being analysed at the department. It hasn't been that long since the investigation was released, and it's a massive material. Solveig knows that because she was in the investigation herself. It takes time to analyse and come up with measures based on it, so it is not surprising that it has not landed yet.
i-92919def8f4ff654-247	Mr President, I would like to Yeah, I spent a long time in the Social Security investigation. I also know what measures were proposed that could lead to a much faster reduction in sick leave, but they have not been mentioned in this context. Now I hear again that Rickard Persson says that if you only get the opportunity at Försäkringskassan to work with the previous cases and make sure to make efforts earlier in the sick leave process everything will be better. That's what you need to focus on now. The conclusion of that, Rickard Persson, is that those who reach the distant time limit will continue to be there. They will continue to be on sick leave indefinitely, and they will have to be forgotten again. That is what the longer deadline is for – not to be forgotten. But now Rickard Persson himself says that you should focus on the previous cases. Understandably, the long ones will have to be long and longer. It says in the government declaration, and the minister said that health insurance should lead people back to work, not poverty. Why, then, do they not invest in contributing to the better functioning of cooperation between Försäkringskassan, Arbetsförmedlingen and employers? Why is the county council not given direct responsibility, as the Soc ial insurance inquiry suggested, to contact employers at a much earlier stage rather than, as now, removing the longer deadline to no avail?
i-92919def8f4ff654-252	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin with the last question, which was about deeper and strengthened cooperation. I can partly agree with you on this. We spend quite a lot of money on the collaboration projects between AF and Försäkringskassan, and it gives quite a poor dividend. It has been doing so for a long time, even for almost all the years you were in power, and you did not take any steps to improve it or gave any new assignments to the Social Insurance Agency in that regard. I still get no answer from Solveig Zander as to why you want to punish those who are sick when the later deadline occurs and why you want to remove their compensation so that they have to worry about their economy and recovery risks getting worse. You asked a lot of questions, Solveig Zander, and I don't remember everyone. You were back on the rehabilitation guarantee and care measures. After all, the rehabilitation guarantee has not worked, so we will have to look at how it will work better. Now we spend money on what we think works better, and that is early action. In fact, some of those who are now being insured should continue to be on sick leave because they are sick, perhaps for a long time. Then the time limit will not help, for there is no miracle from one day to the next that you seem to believe.
i-92919def8f4ff654-256	Mr President, I would like to Today, we have gathered here in this House to debate financial security in the event of illness and disability. I have to say that it is almost a bit solemn to be able to stand here and talk about the committee's proposal and our proposal to remove the lower time limit in health insurance. It was in 2008 that the last year introduced that reform. It meant that after having been on sick leave for 914 days they no longer received any compensation from Försäkringskassan. Instead, they would be included in a labour market measure called ALI. After 87 days with ALI one could possibly be granted a new period of sick leave of a maximum of 915 days. Whoever was rejected was left to his fate. For many people, this was a total disaster. In the worst case scenario, the only way out was to seek support from social services. In just a few years, the very foundation of our welfare was rocked. The reason for the introduction of these rules was that the then government wanted to reduce the rates of sick leave. But basically there must have been an idea that if you whip people hard enough, they will soon become healthy. There must have been ideas that when a person becomes poor enough, he will be well. With the facts in hand, we can probably conclude that the recipe that the previous right-wing government wrote out did not cure any sick people, nor did it reduce any sickness rates. No, instead, the longer deadline contributed to thousands of people being assured. Instead, the reform contributed to people paying the price of their illness by ending up in financial vulnerability. In fact, this was a political decision that strengthened inequalities in society. Mr President, I would like to Women are more sick than men are. Women work more often in professions that are more close to people and where the risk of illness is greater than in other professions. Women usually perform most of the unpaid home grazing, and women live to a greater extent than men with a worse economy. These are all factors that help people to get sick. Therefore, a majority of those who have been insured are also women once and twice. Every time they have been insured, those affected have had their finances severely deteriorated. The reform introduced by the previous government has thus contributed to the increasingly visible face of poverty in our country. That is precisely why it is particularly nice that we are now proposing to remove the longer time limit in health insurance. Mr President, I would like to Basically, this is about our view of our welfare. The question we have to ask ourselves is whether we want our welfare to be safe and supportive and help us all fairly through the roller coaster of life or whether we want a very limited welfare whose foundation is based on each being their own success smith regardless of the fates of life. I think we all know what has made our country one of the richest and most equal countries in the world. Removing the time limit is not a proposal that will reduce the rate of sick leave, but an ideological and very important position. But we want more than that. We are facing major challenges in terms of sickness rates in Sweden. This is a growing problem that we must all take seriously. We have tried bourgeois penal policy, and we saw how it went. Now it's time to move on and try something new. We in the Left Party have a series of suggestions for how we can make sure that fewer people get sick and how we can help those who still do. We believe that the person on sick leave should be entitled to rehabilitation in order to facilitate the return to work. After six weeks you should have an individual assessment of your work capacity. An individual rehabilitation plan shall be drawn up within three months. After six months, there shall be an in-depth assessment of the possibilities of returning to work. We want to see a more humane working life with a better working environment and strong trade unions, which is necessary to minimise the risk of injury and illness. We believe that the Swedish Work Environment Authority needs more resources. We want to see an occupational health care service that knows the conditions in the workplace and makes it possible to take care before the employee becomes too ill to be able to work. Finally, we believe that it is absolutely crucial that we strengthen equality work in Sweden if we are to seriously reduce sickness rates.
i-92919def8f4ff654-266	Mr President, I would like to I have to start by saying that May Karlsson and I share the idea of strengthening occupational health care or similar efforts for employers. It is incredibly important, so that they get support and help to reduce sick leave that depends on the work environment. It's really important. I do not think, however, that Maj Karlsson knows how the rehabilitation chain works and why it was introduced. The former Social Democratic Minister of Social Security Anna Hedborg, in an investigation, outlined the proposals and the grounds for what is today the rehabilitation chain. She clearly stressed the importance of a more remote border. Our Nordic neighbours also have a border that goes much earlier than what we have. I can assure you that it was not the Center Party and the Alliance Government that made the backbone of what we have today. We want to invest in work. That is what separates us, and it is ideological. That is quite right, Maj Karlsson. Grants we don't like as much as being able to do to work. We introduced the possibility for county councils to contribute to treatment with the CBT, because what was most sick was for and what was mostly for women was something that could be treated with the CBT. What would you like to see, instead, that reduced those diagnoses, which actually affect women more? Is it not right to introduce individual measures into today's insurance?
i-92919def8f4ff654-271	Mr President, I would like to I'm not going to go into answering who was behind what. I don't have that knowledge. There are, if we are going to be a little honest, three reasons why we should remove the longer time limit. It's inhuman. It reflects a human view that means that the sick should be punished rather than helped. It does not matter that the background idea was that other countries had introduced it. After all, you continue to take a stand to keep the deadline, Solveig Zander. I maintain, however, that if you do not work, it is because you are ill, not because you do not have a job. That's not the basis. We want people to be healthy. We do not want workplaces to make people sick. That's what's at the bottom of it. I really do not understand why you are keeping the deadline so tight. As I said, there are three things that make us want to remove it. It is inhumane, it reflects a human vision that means that the sick should be punished and it is ineffective. Don't you think we should remove it ourselves, precisely because it is ineffective?
i-92919def8f4ff654-275	Mr President, I would like to Are there not individual, previous trials in health insurance now, May Karlsson? Isn't it possible to do that today? Do you wait 914 days before doing anything? Now Försäkringskassan will focus more on the early illness cases, which we also heard from, among others, Miljöpartiet and Rickard Persson. That's good. Then you can focus on it and do not have to do much when someone has been on sick leave for 914 days. Is it not possible with the current system to be on sick leave longer than the longer deadline when that point has been reached? Yes or no? I would like a proposal on what other measures in rehabilitation you think should be taken to speed up, so that there are not so long queues in the package of measures from the county councils. The queues contribute to the long sick leave. What measures do you want to take in order for county councils to speed up and shorten queues?
i-92919def8f4ff654-279	Mr President, I would like to Yes, you can be on sick leave longer than the 915 days, or whatever we have to deal with. You only have the 915 days, then you have to get into labour market measures and then you can possibly be on sick leave once more. But for every step that you've set up, Solveig Zander, the sick people-- those are sick people we're talking about-- a little poorer. Finally, the point comes when you are covered. We've seen thousands of people covered. And they've fallen right on the hill because they've been sick. For me, it is quite incomprehensible that anyone should defend such a reform. Then you have come to fight not only with your illness but also with poverty. Seriously, a reform that has led people to seek support while they are ill is inhumane. I'm really happy that we're going to take that reform away now.
i-92919def8f4ff654-283	Mr President, I would like to We have a great challenge ahead of us. I think we have all understood this, on the basis of the debate we have heard here today. It is a major challenge which is essentially tarvar political gathering. We can see, as many have done, that since 2010, sick leave has increased by nearly 70%, so far. From the experience of past decades, we know that such a development tends to continue to increase – regardless of which government is sitting. According to the forecasts presented by Försäkringskassan, it would mean 80 000 more sick leave in 2019 if we do not manage to reverse the trend – 80 000 more sick leave. We know that two out of three people on sick leave are women today. Many are in contact occupations. They're teachers, nurses, nurses, social security. They are people whom we all know we need in our welfare, whether they are private or public. This applies not least because of the situation in our world today and the challenge we face as a country. This, of course, also means a cost increase of 12 billion. Efforts that the country needs to do at work, school and climate may have to stand back. By the time we took over autumn 2014, the sickness rates had already increased by over 50 per cent since 2010. And the direction was clear. This is taking it seriously. Aron Modig asked me a question in his final line shift. He wondered why we are constantly talking about the longer deadline and not the other measures. Yes, I have been asking myself that question over and over this year. I can say that we are certainly not solely responsible for the fact that we are constantly talking about the longer deadline, which is actually a rather failed measure. Together, we should put much more focus, time and effort into talking about the measures we are now taking to dampen the inflow into insurance. And we should make sure that people don't get stuck in long sick leave. The government is now taking strong steps to reverse developments. We know that's what it takes. Experience has taught us this. We have developed a clear target, a numerical target, because with how much we think we need to reduce the sickness rates by 2019 – 2020. Not only do we need to reduce sickness rates there, but in Sweden the sickness rates should normally be able to be there over time, at nine. It's ambitious. We know that. Getting the sickness rate down is also about taking advantage of the work capacity of all the people I just mentioned: the teachers, nurses, nurses and social secretaries. We need them in those industries and not in sick leave. This is a development that is bad for everyone, regardless of which government is sitting. It is bad for the individual who suffers from illness. It's bad for companies. It's bad for public activities. And it's really bad for our social economy. I therefore hope and hope that, after today's decision, we can move forward, that we can stop talking unilaterally about the longer deadline, which actually enters two and a half years into a case of illness. All of us in this House, who know something about these issues, know that it is extremely difficult to achieve results two and a half years into a case of illness. Probability decreases by 70% in the first few months of the year if you do not succeed in returning to work. We also know that the expiry of the time limit does not involve a test of working capacity. The budget now contains important elements of our action programme. We increase the funds to Försäkringskassan to strengthen their processing. We are increasing the funds for the coordination associations in order for them to be able to work further with the very long-term sick. We have reviewed all the state's efforts regarding the process of sick leave and rehabilitation. We choose to reshuffle the heavily criticised rehabilitation guarantee in order to get more out of these funds. These are important elements of the broader picture and of the action programme presented by the government covering seven areas – as I said – and 25 different points for prevention. It is about the work of sick leave and what needs to be done to get people back to work. It will not be easy, but with this start-up, budget and action programme, we can achieve what has long been the goal in Sweden, but which has never been achieved, namely a low and stable absence. If we do that, it's very much won.
i-92919def8f4ff654-295	Mr President, I would like to The Minister and I tend to be in the Chamber discussing these important issues and the concerns that we both feel about the increase in sick leave and how to deal with them. The objective is probably common to all of us here, to try to reduce inflows, to make preventive work even more effective and to strengthen rehabilitation measures and make them more effective in order to make them personalised so that more people get back to work. I, along with several people here, was a member of the Social Security investigation. The investigation worked for four and a half years. I had the privilege of attending for four years. A great deal of effort and expert help had been put into producing the product and the report we presented. It was a compromise, a rewarding and taking on all these 1,500 pages. We put forward a variety of proposals. I am very disappointed that today we are not debating, proposing and deciding on these measures. After all, we were all very clear that this can only be done when the rehabilitation measures have become more effective and are in place for the individual. Now the time limit will disappear without this being secured. Then my question to the Minister is: How does the Minister ensure that people from February 2016 will have clearer and better rehabilitation measures to get back to work? Nevertheless, that must be the objective.
i-92919def8f4ff654-299	Mr President, I would like to Of course, as a minister and this government, I have a great deal of respect for the work carried out in the parliamentary social security inquiry. Lotta Finstorp also knows that it has now been out for a referral. We are working in the Government Office on analysis of the referrals received, and we will come back in several parts. But the fact is, Lotta Finstorp, that we took over a situation where sickness rates had increased by over 50 percent. As a government in that situation, sitting still in the boat and not taking any action would be a direct misconduct of the government. Many of the measures that we are now proposing in the very broad package of measures that we are presenting are based on much of the knowledge that you and we have jointly developed in the parliamentary social security inquiry. As far as the time limit is concerned, Lotta Finstorp, it is no secret at all where the Social Democracy stands and has always been on that issue. It is in fact – and it shows all the evaluations – a failed measure that has put people in great uncertainty and into deeper poverty. It is 2% who have come to work after insurance. I know what the objectives of the bourgeois government were when this measure was introduced. From all perspectives, this is a failed measure. That is why, as soon as possible, we want to remove it and invest resources, time, power and government resources where they are most needed.
i-92919def8f4ff654-303	Mr President, I would like to After all, the government has had every opportunity to look at the investigation and the compromise proposals, especially on the basis of the longer deadline, and sit down with the rest of us to see if it can be turned on so that it can not be removed entirely because the rehabilitation measures are not in place. That is a question that I have, why it has not been done. After all, the government's own expert authorities firmly dismiss the removal of the longer time limit because the long sick leave will increase, they write. What analysis and expert advice does the government support its proposal to remove the deadline? Then I would also like to raise the same question to the Minister as I did to the Green Party's Rickard Persson. The government's target of having the EU's lowest unemployment rate in 2020 is undeniably raising questions and concerns. Göran Persson also had a target in his time, and it was an unemployment rate of 4 per cent. This was not achieved, despite the boom and the fact that early retirement, long-term sick leave and labour market policy measures were removed from the statistics. I very much hope that there is no link between the government's unemployment target and the proposal to remove the longer deadline. How will individuals, now that the time limit is removed and ALI is removed, be able to make demands for support and effective rehabilitation, such as labour market policy measures? What is happening with the employment phase is also causing great concern among people who are far removed from the regular labour market.
i-92919def8f4ff654-307	Mr President, I would like to I'm a little surprised that Lotta Finstorp is raising the government's goal here. I'm gonna start at that end. Here we are talking about an ambitious government with an ambitious objective. In addition, both employment and unemployment rates are currently pointing in the right direction. Sweden is doing well. The bourgeois government left behind an unemployment rate of 8 per cent, a youth unemployment rate of 25 per cent, a deficit in state finances of over 70 billion and an increase in sickness rates of 50 per cent. I don't know what it is that Lotta Finstorp's father is after. As far as the other elements are concerned – as I pointed out in my previous speech – the government is now presenting a broad programme of measures which is largely based on what has been worked on in the parliamentary social security inquiry. There are 25 different measures in seven different areas where the emphasis is on curbing inflows into insurance. When you talk about the longer deadline, Lotta Finstorp, I hear that you are not approaching the failure of this reform at all. You are saying that there will be an increase in the long cases of illness if the time limit is removed. It's about your numbers. You have insured people who have then returned to insurance as short cases of illness. This is, of course, the increase that we will see now, namely that people who are ill stay in the insurance which is intended to deal with sick leave instead of subsistence support or to fall between the chairs of society in general.
i-92919def8f4ff654-312	Mr President, I would like to I would first like to thank the Minister for being here to take part in the debate. I really appreciate that. It is interesting to hear the Minister tell us about the various measures to be taken, about the reasons why more people are getting sick leave today and about this with the contacts, teachers and those who work in health care in different ways. Of course, I wonder: What is wrong with the rehabilitation chain when people in the contact professions get sick leave? Couldn't one have started and done something already there? We didn't start talking about the longer deadline on the part of the Center Party or the Alliance. It was the Minister himself who brought it up at an early stage and said that it should be removed. We had just completed the Social Security investigation, and we waited. In all the debates we said we would evaluate its proposals. We would come up with a better proposal compared to what prevailed. Then the Minister will come and say that you should remove the time limit. Why are you doing it fast and wrong again? Why don't you do a real investigation and take it all in one package? You're always shoving away with little things that cause anxiety. You come up with a variety of proposals that are not connected. I have one last question. What do you do to shorten queues within county councils, so that you get care and treatment earlier than today? Here is one of the reasons why there will be longer sick leave.
i-92919def8f4ff654-317	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mr Zander for his speech. With the constant return in today's debate to what the government does and does not do, most of all what the government does not do, I would like to devote this particular speech to talking about the government's package of measures. We now invest SEK 250 million annually to strengthen the processing at the early deadlines. The trials fell by 50 per cent during the last term of the bourgeois government, causing many people to fall through and to be secured without any test. We will ensure that insurance investigations are used more. We develop the support from Försäkringskassan to employers. It's a mission you get. We are currently evaluating the workplace support. We will train more occupational health doctors. We give an assignment to Försäkringskassan to identify employers who do not do their rehabilitation and signal to the Swedish Work Environment Agency. We give the Swedish Work Environment Authority a mandate to look at the rehabilitation work of employers in particular during their supervision. We are in dialogue with the social partners about economic drivers for employers to also work with the long illness cases. We are strengthening the resources for the coordination associations. We are strengthening resources for primary care in the area of mental illness, both among young people and especially among women, by nearly 400 million annually. We are reviewing the state's overall efforts in the area of mental illness. We are expanding knowledge support to primary care for return to work. It will be an important part. We will do studies and open comparisons on sick leave practices. The policy support will be developed. Indicators shall be developed to monitor how different treatments have an effect on return to work. We are embarking on a reform of the activity compensation, something you should have done in view of the criticism it has received. We're looking at the sick leave billions and the rehabilitation guarantee.
i-92919def8f4ff654-324	Mr President, I would like to It was a long list. Why didn't you wait until that list had an impact before you removed the time limit? That's what we agreed on in the Social Insurance investigation. The insurance measures shall be reinforced. Is it better to put them at Försäkringskassan than to let the county councils take that responsibility? You want to punish employers in different sectors because they have long sick leave. But wouldn't it be better for people working in contact professions if they had more employers to choose from so that they could change employers? No, you don't think that's good. The law on freedom of choice and the possibility of having different companies that run health care is nothing that you from the government think is particularly good. But it would make it easier for people in health professions to have more employers to choose from. Then employers could challenge each other themselves, which would not be bad at all. Instead, you choose to punish employers. Are there employers who deliberately want to make their staff sick? In that case, I would like the Minister to list who it is.
i-92919def8f4ff654-327	Mr President, I would like to I thank Solveig Zander, but I don't really know how she listened to what I just said. There is nothing in this that is at all about punishing any employers. On the contrary, this government has had a very good dialogue with the social partners from day one last autumn, both employers and trade unions. Only a few months ago, both trade unions and employers' organisations had to submit their proposals on what could be a positive economic stimulus for them to be able to work better with the long illness. We are now working through the responses from employers in the Swedish labour market. We have a very good dialogue. It is not a question of punishing anyone; it is a question of working together to counter sick leave, which is bad for both companies and public employers. I think Solveig Zander heard that we are now strengthening the health care system's ability to deal with the illnesses that are going there. Today we know that many are moving towards primary care in those cases. We need to increase the knowledge of, not least, primary care when it comes to the most frequent diagnoses. I believe that this is a challenge that we need to resolve in good dialogue between the political parties and the social partners in various ways in order to counter the developments that we are now seeing.
i-92919def8f4ff654-330	Mr President, I would like to I would also like to say that it is positive that the Minister for Social Security is taking part in the debate. I would also like to agree with what the Minister for Social Security began with in his speech, that the increase in sick leave is a huge challenge for Sweden in the future. That is one of the biggest challenges, I would say, alongside migration, the demographic challenge and certainly someone or some more. When I gave my main speech, the Minister for Social Security took the opportunity to take a line on it in order to settle the debate, as it was expressed. I thought I'd relate to the same theme. In this debate, there has been a rather dull and low tone of voice for several years. They have thrown themselves with concepts such as... Today I saw that the Left Party Health Policy spokesperson has written at the debate place in Expressen: ..................................................... Now I know that the Minister for Social Security is not using these expressions. I would like to emphasise that. But she is responsible for these issues and represents a government that relies on parties that clearly express themselves in this way. How does the Minister of Social Security see that picture spreading?
i-92919def8f4ff654-334	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Mr Aron Modig for his speech. During the years in which I followed the debate outside this House in another role, I have met many of the people who have become ill and are also insured. Of course, this is an issue that has aroused a great deal of emotion. It cannot be said that, for some individuals, this has, in fact, brought great suffering and great concern. This is confirmed, for example, by Arbetsförmedlingen's evaluation of the ALI; many of those who come to them and will participate in the work life introduction are too worried about their finances or illness, or simply for the sick, in order to take on some efforts. This is an issue that has aroused a lot of emotion. I am pleased that today we are going to take a decision to remove the longer deadline. It has not had an announced effect. However, I do not myself choose to use that kind of concept in this debate. I don't. Then others will have to bear the terms that they may use.
i-92919def8f4ff654-337	Mr President, I would like to Of course, I welcome the fact that the Minister for Social Security does not use this kind of expression and concept in the debate. However, I would like to repeat what is at the place of debate in Expressen today, written by a leading representative of the government support party, from which the government is thus backing this change: ..................................................... I had really hoped for a clearer rejection of this type of language by the Minister for Social Security. There may be differences of opinion about the longer time limit in health insurance. But what has been the purpose? The aim has been to achieve more support, follow-up and continuous labour market testing for those on sick leave. In short, it has been about achieving a better opportunity for sick people to return to work, back to the labour market. The government is now removing the longer deadline. We see that this will lead to more people getting sick leave. That's what the government says. Several heavy referrals say that this will lead to longer sick leave. This will not lead to fewer sick leave in Sweden. I think that the debate for several years has been dirty. I'm not in that picture. I think it is a pity that the Minister for Social Security does not distance himself more clearly from this. On the substance of the matter, I maintain that it is quite wrong that this change is now being made.
i-92919def8f4ff654-342	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Aron Modig, for the post! I think I was very clear. We can stand here and talk about different sentences and what to use or not. But if you look at the people who have been insured– in many cases it is women– you can see that some have no longer been able to participate in the circus of insurance and new insurance in health insurance but instead chose to make an early retirement, which means that they have a weaker situation in life and simply become poorer. In the case of women who have fallen out of the system and landed on subsistence support or are supported by their partner, I think the situation is even more serious. I am pleased that we are putting an end to this with the decision we are making here today. What the government's consultative bodies may have said about the removal of the time limit was about things that existed before the government presented its package of measures. If we did not take any action, the referral bodies saw a certain picture in front of them. In the debate here today, I have clearly explained the measures that the government has taken and is in the process of implementing. That's also a truth. This government doesn't want to do numbers. I don't want us to let people spin around in health insurance to keep statistics down in that way, any more than you want people to be hidden in early retirement, which I don't want either. If we're going to solve health insurance in real life, we're going to have to stop playing games, with insurance, and with hiding people in early retirement. We need to make sure that people don't have to get sick from their jobs.
i-92919def8f4ff654-347	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved. Much has been said by my fellow party members and by the Minister here today, but I still think there is something left for me to say. Getting sick is something that affects all of us. It may be the short flu, diseases that take longer to recover from or chronic diseases, that will follow you through life. At worst, it is a disease that will end your life prematurely. One thing is certain: we are all different when it comes to being affected by and being able to deal with our diseases. Having a congenital disability or getting a reduction due to illness is tough. Having one's work capacity reduced for a long time due to illness can put one's whole life on hold. Not only should you deal with the troubles and concerns caused by the disease, but you also have a huge financial burden to shoulder. Historically, it was scratches or coworkers at the mill who went with the gun to support each other. As a result, sickness and funeral funds were formed, where everyone was involved and paid to be able to receive compensation. This has since evolved into Försäkringskassan and health insurance as it is today. The purpose then, as now, was to secure the individual's livelihood by compensating for the absence of work. We Social Democrats believe that society should be strong and supportive when the individual is weak and needs support. Our health insurance is based on a community of solidarity, not on abandoning the sick. Here I could develop my view of the insurance policy, but so much has been said here. I will just say that, because of deadlines, insurance is neither solidarity nor worthy of a welfare society. Mr President, I would like to The best rehabilitation is the one that is never needed. Here I am thinking of the injuries and diseases that can occur in the workplace. Good and safe working environment are crucial factors for people's health and work capacity. When the bourgeois government gave priority to all efforts on the working environment and changed the conditions for occupational health care, we Social Democrats pointed out that this was wrong. It is gratifying that in the 2015 spring budget we were able to re-invest in the work environment, the Swedish Work Environment Agency, safety education and work life research. Such things will make a difference. We have also invested more money in occupational health care, i.e. an occupational health care service that once was an important support both in the preventive work environment and during the active rehabilitation process. They are really needed now, as we face an increase in sick leave and new causes of increased ill health. We see this in the form of mental illness, burn-out and fatigue depression, including among women who themselves work with vulnerable people in their professions. The government parties – the Social Democrats and the Environmental Party – are restoring and re-investing in preventive work environment work and occupational health care. I have not heard very many words from the Alliance about the work environment and occupational health care today. Mr President, I would like to We can talk about sickness benefit and health insurance for a long time. However, I was going to talk a little about collaboration as an instrument of rehabilitation. Finsam – financial collaboration between Försäkringskassan, Arbetsförmedlingen, county councils and municipalities – has since the formation ten years ago developed much and clearly demonstrated that combined efforts and resources can make major changes. It is about the work, cooperation and approach of the authorities and stakeholders, but above all about the individuals involved in action. When I meet participants in Finsam I hear: This is the first time anyone has seen me heal. At last, I'm not just a diagnosis. I'm a whole human being. Happily, we agree across party boundaries that there is a need for bets. Finally, we must not forget: in order for people with disabilities or illness to enter the labour market, there must be a labour market that receives them. It is therefore gratifying that our Minister for Labour is now taking up the old Funka investigation, which, under the previous government, ended up in a drawer.
i-92919def8f4ff654-361	Mr President, I would like to More and more people are more or less excluded from supporting social security systems, even though they have done what society has asked of them, obtained long-term training and made themselves available to the labour market. Fewer and fewer people can produce more and more. The rapid development of technology frees people from hard and monotonous jobs. There are fewer jobs, and the bar to be accepted in an increasingly harsh labour market is increasingly higher, while the pressure on individuals is increasing. More and more people are living under precarious working conditions as temporary workers or clean day-earners, providing insecure livelihoods and life insecure. We all risk getting sick or out of work. Communities where contempt for weakness is normalized and institutionalized are in trouble. A work line without a sufficient amount of work threatens to degenerate into disciplinary instruments. No one gets healthier or gets a job living with a corrosive worry about their livelihood. That's why what the government now wants to do, for example, remove the distant parentheses in health insurance, very good. No one gets healthier by being insured. In addition, it is more important than ever to see the world as it is now and how it changes and to think even longer. That is why I would like to take this opportunity to raise the issue of basic income – some of us have been exercising to investigate it. The basic idea is, simply put, that all people without conditions should receive a regular sum of money on which to live. The idea began to take shape even during the epoch of the French and American revolutions, when thoughts of inalienable human rights were raised. Basic income is more than a vision. Various variants have been tried temporarily or permanently in countries such as the United States, India and Brazil, with good results. People who have gained confidence have gained greater freedom, security, ability to act and dignity, and they have managed the money well. Attempts have shown that people do not voluntarily withdraw from the labour market with basic income. But they get more time to find something that suits their skills better, which is good for both people and the economy. When they do not have to worry about their livelihoods, avoid going hungry and get money for medicine and medical care, they get the power to start a business, organise themselves democratically and learn more in school. In this context, I would like to mention positive experiences from trials in Canada. There it turned out that public health improved. This may have contributed to the fact that the Canadian Medical Association is among those who have gone out advocating some form of basic income. Our neighbour Finland is in the process of designing basic income experiments, on the initiative of the coalition government – which includes many parties of different colours. The aim is, among other things, to simplify the social security system by ensuring that the basic income is intended to replace other benefits. In the Netherlands, several cities are starting trials with unconditional support, to be followed up by researchers. But can we afford it? Yes, that means more and more people, including eight economic winners in Nobel's memory. For example, an unconditional basic income could replace parts of social security systems and eliminate costly control devices. In this context, I would like to mention a Swedish attempt. People who have become poor because they have not been able to work because of long-term mental illness received 500 SEK each month without conditions and with an explicit order: Use this for yourself! It turned out that many problems were perhaps simply symptoms of poverty and not of disease. People who isolated themselves from others were now counseled to invite friends for coffee. It also turned out that those who received the five - dog ring needed significantly less inpatient care. I would like to recall that it was in the order of 30% less. So it was also economically beneficial to society. What if people at the Social Insurance Office and Employment Office had no control and had to devote themselves full time to helping people with rehabilitation and looking for work and linking job seekers with employers who need staff? And what effects could it not have on health if more people were given a real opportunity to turn down underpaid, pointless or health and environmentally damaging jobs? Such a shift of power to individuals would bring much-needed upward pressure to the labour market and would most likely improve health. The human rights fighter and Peace Prize winner Martin Luther King wrote in his last book, 1967, that it is more effective to eliminate poverty than to try to address its accompanying problems. So he suggested a guaranteed income on which to live. To avoid a poverty trap, he suggested that it be linked to the median income and listed as it rises. I think there's a lot in his analysis. Pick up the root of evil! Then maybe not everything will work out but much. There is much more to say about different effects and funding opportunities. It is about carbon tax and natural resource tax that is distributed to the inhabitants of a country – the latter system has been in place in Alaska since the 1980s. There may also be re-priorities from various deductions for already well-off to an effort of basic security for all. But time does not admit that I am talking about all these possibilities. These are complex issues that require careful analysis, and it is important to be humble. We in the Green Party are not afraid to ask important but difficult questions. That is why our highest decision-making body, Congress, decided this summer that we should work for a government public investigation that in depth investigates the consequences of a system of basic income in Sweden. Some of us have also raised a motion on this, which is being discussed today. We are faced with a crucial choice: Should we think new and build security and freedom for all or continue to repair and patch up an increasingly worn-out system? Nevertheless, the committee rejects our motion for an unconditional state inquiry without justification. We are not proposing to introduce anything, but to propose an investigation. Regardless of the basic principle of substance, we should all be able to agree that we should look with open minds into new ways forward when reality changes. Those who reflexly dismiss basic income without further investigation are obliged to answer as to how the major challenges of our time can be met.
i-92919def8f4ff654-375	Mr President, I would like to The number of new cases of illness is increasing. The increase started, as has been said here, already in 2010. In 2015, there have been even more. Some argue outside this debate that this increase is not so serious because it takes place from a low level. But it is not possible to wait passively and see what is happening and to act too late. It is important to act early. We have learned this when the cases of illness have increased historically. This is why the Government has quickly developed an action programme for increased health and reduced sick leave, where gender equality and the working environment are important areas. Mr President, I would like to Sick absence has a very distorted gender distribution. The gender equality policy objective of women and men having the same power to shape society and their own lives is therefore, according to the government's assessment, difficult to achieve. The number of women who start new cases of illness is almost twice the number of men who do. And the sickness benefit rate is twice as high for women. It is the mental illness that increases and dominates in women. A recently published Swedish research study looked at the health of a larger group of insured women, where the diagnoses were mental illness and pain. On average, they had two diagnoses related to mental illness. They had poor or very poor health, slept poorly or very poorly, often had several prescribed drugs and were also high when it comes to the risk of suicide. This is serious. If anyone doubts that this group of insured persons has poor health, I recommend reading this study. In addition, long-term sick women have a lower economic standard than long-term sick men. The proportion of persons who have received long-term financial assistance, such as supply support, is particularly high among those who have achieved maximum time with fixed-term sickness benefit and have not returned to health insurance. We also know that problems with the economy result in people giving up care and treatment that they so badly need. Not being able to afford medical care or dental care or taking out medication does not make them healthier. Mr President, I would like to Thus we see a pattern where women have more cases of illness, more days of illness and worse economics. We therefore need to know more about why women's working environment makes them sicker. In the Government's budget is a task to compile knowledge of the importance of the working environment for the emergence of diseases with particular regard to women's working environments. This and the Government's action programme are important measures to reduce women's ill health and sick leave.
i-92919def8f4ff654-384	Mr President, I would like to I will admit that I was not really going to go up in this debate today. Many speakers have said many wise things. In essence, I would like to agree with what my alliance friends have said here today. I still felt that I had to say something, because after listening to the discussion I have a feeling that I do not get away from. It is that we have a government with government parties and support parties which, in essence, appear to be losing control of sick leave. This is deeply problematic. We agree on one thing, and that is that we are now seeing a strong increase in absenteeism. It takes place in principle in all groups and in almost the whole country. This is serious for the individual who falls into sick leave, in exclusion, who has the feeling of not coming to his own. The work capacity that many still have is not exploited. Mr President, I would like to It is also problematic for Sweden. The other day, Försäkringskassan came with a new forecast. It warns of cost increases of SEK 4.5 billion until next year, something to be put on top of what has previously been warned about – from 27.5 billion to almost 40 billion in 2018. This speaker's chair is often used to present various bets. It's about a billion dollars here or there, maybe a billion to the school and a few hundred million to the defense. But almost everything else fades in comparison with the cost of the ostensibly sick absence that we are currently seeing taking place. Such a major social problem as we now see requires accuracy and knowledge. It takes courage and ability to do what is right rather than what is simple. I would like to point out, and I have done so several times, that the government is doing a lot of good things. Take, for example, the case of sick leave– we agree on that. We have also pointed that out. That's good politics. However, an objective in itself does not solve any challenges, but needs the right policies to achieve the goal. Even when this was implemented, we warned that without the right measures, this objective will be as ineffective as that of unemployment by 2020. There is no judge today, except perhaps the government, who believes in this. I must admit, Mr President, that I told you then that it would be a few years before it became ineffective. I got it wrong. Now, after two and a half months, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency says that it will not reach the target. The Social Insurance Agency even says that it does not even believe that sickness absence will decrease in the future, but on the contrary it will continue to rise to 13 days of sickness benefit. It is even said that it can go so bad that it rises even more than that. In this debate, there has been no hijacking of the word for reinforcement and the exclamation of how failed the time limit has been. We have different opinions about it. My picture is that whoever has the facts on his side does not have to use a high tone. I would like to say that we have a very good foothold to say that the longer deadline is needed. It is not my words, it is the government's own authorities that say this. It is Försäkringskassan, it is Ar betförmedlingen and it is the Inspection of Social Security that everyone warns about this and says: Don't! It will increase sick leave, and it will increase costs. My question to Annika Strandhäll is therefore: Is the government listening to the consultation bodies? Are you interested in taking the impression of what others think and think? Or have you just decided from the beginning?
i-92919def8f4ff654-396	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Johan Forssell, for the post! As Johan Forssell said that he had really listened to the debate here today, I had hoped that this was the case. He had also heard the list of measures now being taken by the government to reverse the trend in absenteeism. I have also noted that Johan Forssell has quoted the debate article from Försäkringskassan at DN Debate on several occasions. It is striking to me that Johan Forssell takes this to revenue because Försäkringskassan says that this goal is impossible to achieve. That is not what the Social Insurance Agency says in the debate article. What Försäkringskassan says is that the administration will now be strengthened, and the government will contribute to this. The Social Insurance Agency will do everything on its edge to reverse developments. But show us the experience, as I have said here today, also knows the Social Insurance Agency, just as all of us who are sitting in this Chamber today know, that it will tarnish what I am also talking about, that is, a collection of different actors who have to step forward: employers, health care, politicians and others. It is also part of the package of measures that the government has now put forward and in the talks that the government is conducting with the social partners on this. Johan Forssell knows this very well, and I find it unfortunate that Johan Forssell instead chooses to add to the anxiety by deliberately twisting what the government says.
i-92919def8f4ff654-400	Mr President, I would like to We'll be a little careful with the words. I am not saying that it is impossible to achieve the objectives. I don't think there's a fate falling on us no matter what we do. But with government policy it will be very difficult to achieve the goal. These aren't my words. This is pretty recurring. We think differently. But that is why we should listen to knowledge so that it does not just become seeming. Politics is for real, and this will have consequences for people. Försäkringskassan says: The overall assessment of Försäkringskassan is that time limits in health insurance, including a shorter time limit, are essential components of a well-functioning health insurance and thus in the ambition that sickness absence should be stable and low. Arbetsförmedlingen says: If the time limit in health insurance is abolished, there is a risk that these individuals will remain in health insurance instead of getting contributions from Arbetsförmedlingen and therefore support to get out to work or education. The Social Security Inspection says: With the removal, an important driver for all actors in the sick leave process disappears to get the person back to work before the deadline is reached. The overall period of sick leave can therefore be expected to be longer and the absence of sick leave to increase. I don't see how I got an answer to the question. I know what you want to do. I know what you want. But are you ready to listen? I do not demand that the Government listen to me, but it would be nice now that sick leave increases if the government could start listening to its own authorities and experts. Have you already decided from the beginning and vaccinated yourself against listening to the criticism?
i-92919def8f4ff654-406	Mr President, I would like to It is again interesting to hear how Johan Forssell listens to today's debate. I was clear that the government has, of course, taken note of the referrals, and they are based on the fact that the government would not take any steps, for example, to curb inflows and strengthen the early trials in the deadlines. Johan Forssell knows this very well. This does not, however, detract from the fact that the lateness of the deadline is a failed part of the policy of the bourgeois government. 100 000 people have been secured at the same time as sick leave increased by more than 50 per cent in parallel. In addition, 80 percent of those insured fall back into insurance as new cases of illness. These are long cases of illness that you have hidden through insurance policy. You had the objective of the longer deadline as to how many would return to the labour market or move on to something else. Johan Forssell knows as well as I do that the results that the longer deadline has shown are radically different from your objectives. 2 percent have gone back to work, Johan Forssell. Expert authorities, such as Försäkringskassan, say that they probably would have done it anyway. This causes people concern and poverty, and it does not lead to any result. Let us focus our efforts where they are needed, namely early. It is extremely sad to see that Johan Forssell cannot lift his eyes and talk about what we should be talking about now.
i-92919def8f4ff654-410	Mr President, I would like to It is interesting that the Government is obviously able to listen to the consultation bodies. I reproduced what the Social Insurance Agency has said, and I have obviously taken an impression on another point. The question is why the government does not take the impression on all occasions when the consultation bodies feel differently. In this case, they advise against the government and raise warning flags. They're clear. You yourself have signed off on this in your own budget proposal. Sick leave will increase to billions of costs, in a situation where state finances are already hard hit. The answer becomes some form of electoral propaganda: If you do not agree, you have not understood. I do not agree with the Minister because I do not understand her saying so. For me, politics is not simple, not black and white, not fire or water. There are different shades. That is precisely why, Mr President, we need to be prepared to listen to scientists, authorities and experts and to make wise, balanced and deliberate decisions. Now the government is hurrying, and it's fast and it's going wrong. It abolishes a deadline before rehabilitation measures are in place, contrary to the expertise. It does not take responsibility for the very large increase in sick leave we are looking at in the coming years. I don't think it's responsible. Now the Riksdag will make decisions today. The debate has not stopped. We will have reason to return to this coming year. Mr President, I would like to In conclusion, I would like to say that the government and the Minister for Social Security will have to bear a heavy responsibility for the future development of sick leave. I look forward to that debate.
i-92919def8f4ff654-417	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 5. We also support our second reservation, but for time winning I have no claim for that reservation. We are now going to debate the economic policy on family matters. It is an area that affects and covers millions of people in Sweden. If you ask a family what they have little of is many times the answer time. If you ask what is important, it is to have the opportunity to decide for yourself based on your own family situation. The government's proposals in the family area go in the opposite direction. These include the government's proposal for a further quota month in parental insurance, which means more political points and less everyday power. It is also a question of halving the RUT deduction. It is the reform that has created thousands of jobs for women and has facilitated the everyday puzzles of many families. The fact that the government also proposes in its budget that we abolish the gender equality bonus, the one that creates incentives for parents to share equal responsibility, is another example. Eliminating prejudices and structures that prevent an equal society is an issue that the Moderates take very seriously. Where the government chooses ways of coercion and quotas, the Moderates choose to create the conditions for parents to take responsibility for themselves and find solutions that suit their own family. Here is a clear dividing line between the family policy of the Moderates and the government. We want to encourage a more even distribution of parental benefit days between parents, which can also contribute to greater equality in the labour market as well. We see a more equal parenthood as a key element in reducing the rate of sick leave among women and reducing the pay gap between men and women. We propose that parents be encouraged to make an equal take-out of parental days by further strengthening the gender equality bonus. We want to create financial incentives for parents to share parental benefit more equally. Families with children continue to want to determine their own family situation. Unfortunately, the government instead chooses to abolish the gender equality bonus, which encourages a more even withdrawal – even though the Riksdag has previously decided differently. Temporary parental allowance in connection with children's illness, so-called vab, poses an additional challenge for the everyday puzzle for many families. Although men take greater responsibility than before, the take-out of so-called vab days is far from equal. We therefore want to set up a study that looks at the possibility of introducing an equal opportunities bonus for the take-up of vab days in order to create better economic conditions for achieving more equal family responsibilities and strengthening women's position in the labour market. Here too, the government rejects our proposal. We believe that parental insurance is not fully adapted to the current situation where families can look very different. That is why we also want to review the possibility of more people taking part in parental insurance. This would make it easier for, for example, star families but also for other family constellations resulting from separations. Of course, such flexibility is important for more children to be cared for by related adults. Mr President, I would like to Today, many children live with separated parents. Of course, the vast majority of parents continue to take full responsibility for their children after a divorce or separation in terms of both financial support and other commitments. At the same time, there are too many, especially fathers, who do not accept their financial responsibility, and many single mothers therefore have to live with very small financial margins. More parents should pay maintenance equivalent to their standard of living. One of the main problems with today's model is that the maximum amount of maintenance support has come to be perceived as the normal level for what should be done in the form of maintenance to a child. This is despite the fact that four out of ten children who today receive full maintenance support are actually entitled to more maintenance if the rules on maintenance are respected. The Moderates want to set up an investigation with the task of fundamentally redesigning today's construction with maintenance and maintenance support. We want to see a system that is transparent and predictable, reduces financial conflicts between parents, strengthens the single economy and increases incentives for alternate housing. In cases where a parent has no income or very low income, a guaranteed minimum level shall continue to be deleted. Mr President, I would like to However, we never get away from the fact that the most important measure to give more children better opportunities for a good start in life is a strong line of work with a policy that leads to more parents working. Being out of work for a long time risks leading to an exclusion that is not just about the economy. Mr President, I would like to In times when we need to make more reforms for women in the labour market, the government is doing the opposite. The fact that the government is now halving the RUT deduction, the reform that has created thousands of jobs for women and has also facilitated the everyday puzzles of many families, is a step in the wrong direction. Another example is the fact that the government has announced in its budget that it will also abolish the gender equality bonus, which creates incentives for parents to share equal responsibility. The fact that the government is raising taxes and abolishing reforms that make it more profitable to work is also the wrong way to go if you want to increase women's participation in the labour market. Reducing profitability in going to work does not create more incentives to work; that goes without saying. It is directly harmful and counteracts an equal work line and an equal family policy.
i-92919def8f4ff654-433	Mr President, I would like to The Moderates thus reject the Government's proposal to increase the basic level of parental benefit, which is a means of strengthening the economy of the lowest-income families with children. That particular part does not surprise me very much – distribution policy has never been the strongest branch of Moderates. There are other things in Category 12 that are all the more perplexing, I have to say. The Moderates recently voted to retain the custody allowance, which aims to ensure that parents – usually mothers – are at home after parental leave with a benefit instead of working. I do not get it together with either a work line or, for that matter, a gender equality line. Tina Ghasemi and the Moderates often and gladly argue for gender equality. Yet it says no to a third reserved month for each parent in parental insurance, despite the fact that it clearly increases equality in parental insurance and contributes to a more equal society. Instead, it wants to increase the bonus premium despite the fact that it has so far had no such effect. As I said, in the welfare and distribution policy, the differences in ambition between the Social Democrats and the Moderates are as clear as ever. In gender equality policy, it is more unclear what the Moderates really want to achieve. I wonder: Is gender equality in family policy at all of interest to the Moderates, and what are the Moderates in that case – in addition to bonuses – prepared to use to get there?
i-92919def8f4ff654-438	Mr President, I would like to I can try to tell you what it has looked like historically, not least when it comes to the basic level of parental benefit that Mrs Teresa mentions. It was the alliance government that last raised the basic level. We did so only last year, and we raised it considerably. We also did other things during our term of office. In 2010, we increased the child allowance in the child allowance. In 2012 and 2014, we increased the housing allowance for families with children. On two occasions, in 2012 and 2014, we also increased the special allowance for children at home. In 2012, we also granted housing allowance for lower housing costs. In 2014, we raised the basic level of parental benefit from SEK 180 to SEK 225. The Alliance government invested in financially vulnerable families with children at a time of financial crisis, debt crisis and the most tangible financial crisis since the 1930s. This was possible because we conducted a responsible policy of order and order. Teresa also mentioned the further earmarked month. After all, the Moderates are a party that listens to the parents. A majority of families with children in Sweden want to be able to decide on their parental leave. We see the challenges. We don't turn a blind eye to them. Instead of imposing quotas, however, we create incentives through the gender equality bonus, enabling parents to share more equally and to equalise economic differences.
i-92919def8f4ff654-442	Mr President, I would like to I believe that Tina Ghasemi highlights gender equality as something that is desirable. I welcome it, although I am still somewhat puzzled by the fact that the methods that have been effective and effective have been rejected, and instead maintain the methods that have not, on the contrary, had an effect on a more equal collection of parental benefit. Incentives, Tina Ghasemi talks about. Incentives are one thing, but when the incentive does not work, I wonder why the Moderates choose to fight for a bonus that both costs taxpayers a lot of money and also does not have any effect. Yet this is exactly what the Moderates are tying up their gender equality policies in the family area. I think it seems to me that the Moderates are somewhat reluctantly drawn into a future that, after all, is a little more equal than yesterday and that they are therefore forced to partially adapt their rhetoric. But politics is missing. Gender equality policy is lacking and policy must take priority in the search for results in the field of gender equality. We have learned that lesson many times. I can only hope that the Moderates will soon want to catch up with us.
i-92919def8f4ff654-445	Mr President, I would like to Mrs Carvalho mentions the effects of the policy proposals. That is precisely what we are criticising the government for: you are not even letting some of the reforms carried out by the Alliance Government take their turn. The evaluations that have come about the gender equality bonus – this also applies to Försäkringskassan's own evaluation – show a lack of information. There are far too few parents who know the effects of the gender equality bonus. You now choose to abolish it, but instead we choose to reinforce it further. There are two different ways to go, and that is the priority that you are doing. We believe that before a reform is abolished, we need to invest in information rather than completely closing it out. Teresa Carvalho tells us that the Moderates are not an equal party. Then I would like to ask the Social Democrats about another reform: the RUT deduction, which has made it easier for women in particular to have more time in their daily lives. You now choose to halve that reform. Isn't that a gender equality reform, if anyone? We do not believe in forced law. There we differ from the Social Democracy. We don't believe in forcing people. We believe in creating incentives, and that is what parents want on this issue.
i-92919def8f4ff654-450	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by saying that I support the special opinion of the Swedish Democrats and our reservations, but for time to come I only support reservations 3 and 10. Child and family policy is a very dear and urgent subject for us Swedish democrats. The family is the nation in the small format, and the nation is the family in the large format. For a nationalist, that is, a person who believes in the right of every people to be the master of his own house, who believes in the right of every nation to preserve its borders and manage its common assets, to share duties and rights, and so on, the parallels between nation and family are so obvious that they hardly need to be mentioned. I have surely said it before, and I will say it many times in the future: The family is the fatherland of the heart. Well-being families are the very foundation of a prosperous nation, for in prosperous families the well-being of children is brought up. It was mainly children I was going to talk about today. I thought I'd talk about politics from the child's perspective. We rarely do, we politicians. We rarely discuss things from the children's perspective. That's not true. We talk all the time from the child's perspective, maybe one of you is thinking. But no, we don't. We politicians talk about children's perspectives, but very often from an adult perspective. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats launched in Almedalen this year a programme of policies concerning children from a child's perspective, appropriately called the Children's Programme, not to be confused with Bolibompa. It is a document with about 50 proposals that improves for Sweden's children from time in the mother's womb to the day the child starts school. The proposals are, of course, also included in the party's motions for the many areas of expenditure involved, some in our committee, some elsewhere. The detailed presentation of every proposal in the Children's Programme is not acceptable in this context, nor is it desirable, but I would like to mention some of the points. The Swedish Democrats want to strengthen legal protection for unborn children, strengthen mothers' possibilities for maternity benefit, dequota parental insurance, reintroduce and strengthen child care allowance, reduce child groups in preschool, abolish gender pedagogy and such ideological experiments with children and abolish the Karen's Day for those working in preschool to prevent disease spreading and to create a better working situation for both educators and children. Furthermore, we want to improve the quality of food in childcare, promote the emergence of parental cooperatives, establish a public register of convicted paedophiles with a high risk of relapse and so on. Mr President, I would like to With regard to the report we are debating today, there are a few points that I would like to highlight a little more. These are reservations 3 and 13. I'll start with reservation three. The Swedish Democrats are in favour of a more even withdrawal of parental insurance, but we think it is the family's right to decide for themselves how best to solve their unique everyday puzzle. On the other hand, we do not think it desirable for one of the parents, usually the one who earns the least, usually the mother, to take greater responsibility for children and homes for financial reasons. We therefore want to see a thorough study on how to shape a completely new parental insurance policy that removes the financial differences linked to which of the parents is at home, i.e. a system where families have the right to distribute the days as they wish but without having to take into account economic factors. As far as reservation 13 is concerned, we welcome the government's increase in the custody allowance, but we believe that it is unreasonable for such an important amount to be adjusted at such long and unpredictable intervals as it has historically been. We therefore recommend indexing the amount so that it can compensate for inflation on an annual basis. I would like to agree with what Tina Ghasemi said about the amount, that there should not be a sort of standard for those who do not use the Social Insurance Agency.
i-92919def8f4ff654-461	Mr President, I would like to The report we are now debating shows that the government has assessed that economic family policy has contributed to improving the conditions for families with children. It's interesting, and you might wonder why. We have heard Tina Ghasemi tell us about the various measures introduced by the Alliance Government – the housing supplement, the multi-child allowance and the basic allowance for parental insurance. Of course, it has helped to improve the quality of families with children. In particular, single women with several children have been better off. That's good. In the Center Party's draft budget, we intend to continue on the established line and make it better for families with children. In short, it is a matter of helping more people to work and of supporting those companies that want to employ. By reducing employers' contributions for young people so that they can get their first job and enter their professional lives, we are very much in favour of them. This means that they also receive higher parental benefit on the day they have children. The Government wishes to provide favourable conditions and a good economic standard of living for families with children in order to promote increased childbirth. I think that is extremely good. If we ensure that you get your first job, you will be safe and have financial opportunities to also be able to start a family. It is a description of the difference between the proposals of the current government and the Center Party and the view of family policy. So we want to contribute to more jobs and fewer subsidies. Now the government is proposing to increase the guarantee level of parental benefit. In addition, there is a desire to increase maintenance support. It's grants, grants, grants. What's the signal? In addition, the Government notes that foreign-born parents are also in need of a higher guarantee amount in parental insurance. Why, then, does the government not take part in maintaining RUT services, where many women and foreign-born people work? In this way, more people can enter the labour market and thus receive higher parental insurance. For me and the Center Party, the work line is extremely important. As far as maintenance aid is concerned, we have already debated it a few weeks ago. At the time we did not think it was good and suggested an investigation, as Tina Ghasemi also mentioned. That, of course, would have been better even today. We believe that a holistic approach is needed. Simplifications and reduced regulatory burdens are things that we should work for. We did this during the time of the alliance government, and that is important even now. Instead, the government continues to plot and complicate things, and then it is easier to make mistakes. This is something that the government should really listen to. It's actually easy to change your mind. The health allowance, Mr President, is intended in this context for children and young people with disabilities. It is expected to increase, says the government representatives in the report. The number of children and adolescents aged 10 to 19 with mental diagnoses is increasing, and it is believed that the benefit will increase. But there's nothing more. There's nothing about what you're going to do about it. That worries me a great deal. It is very serious that you do not even make any proposals. I wonder, of course, what the government is going to do about this? Or are you not going to do anything? We have heard that the government is considering abolishing the gender equality bonus. Can we not look at this too and come back with a proposal that will make sure that we increase the carrots of parents to share parental leave rather than abolish it upside down? It is said that it is not good, and then you cannot do it right, make it easy and thus do it again. We will of course also introduce a vab bonus for vab days. The report also mentions the extension of child benefit, Mr President, but is not prepared to do anything there. It is about young people who remain in special school. The study help investigation was completed in 2013, and it is said that it is being processed. In this context, I would like to give a tip to the government. Adriana Lender, the former Director-General of the Social Insurance Agency, investigated the activity compensation, which we discussed in connection with the previous report. This is linked to the extension of children's allowance to special school pupils. Look at this, link it up and do something good about it so that young people in special school who have disabilities also receive support and help to enter the labour market. It's extremely important. Mr President, I would like to I am in favour of reservation 11, in which the Center Party proposes that guarantee days and minimum days should be given a single name and a single proposal and be able to be taken throughout parental leave. That's part of the rule of simplification.
i-92919def8f4ff654-474	Mr President, I would like to I reacted when Solveig Zander talked about the maintenance allowance and at the same time said: Grants, grants and grants are the only things they have to come up with. Maintenance support has not been increased by more than SEK 100 in the last 20 years. The last time that happened was in 2006. What we have now been involved in presenting is 300 kroner increase per month and children. It comes to those who have the most deprived. Solveig Zander chooses to gloat over their financial situation when we know that we have had a huge amount of child poverty. Solveig Zander chooses to go after that group, but to contribute to the most well-off, she does not seem to have any problems at all. It is perfectly possible to ensure that those who can pay for their own bartenders, pool cleaners or whatever it may be get grants, grants and grants– they should be happy to have it.
i-92919def8f4ff654-477	Mr President, I would like to I don't know a single person who gets a grant for pool cleaning, bartenders and so on, Rossana Dinamarca. I've never heard anyone have, but Rossana Dinamarca may know several of them. I don't know a single one – I must say that frankly. But that was not the most important thing in this context. The most important thing is maintenance support. We have said no to this for the reason that both parents will support their children on the basis of their financial conditions. This means that many fathers, for it is often they who earn the most, today do not pay to the extent that their economy allows. The support that mothers and women receive for the children they are responsible for is at the same level as maintenance support. Instead, we can make an investigation that looks more at how fathers can pay more, which would make at least SEK 1 000 for those who are the most deprived. It is more than SEK 300, but it does not want the government that the Left Party supports to contribute to. Why don't you want that, Rossana Dinamarca, when you know it would make a better contribution to women and children than the $300 increase?
i-92919def8f4ff654-480	Mr President, I would like to Somewhere, however, it is a matter of being able to guarantee that children are allowed to live in better conditions. I do not think that Mr Zander is completely unaware of the poverty in which many children find themselves. Of course, it is good if we can agree to give more, but there must be some form of security for these families. It's been very neglected. It is almost ten years since the aid was increased, and we think it is now. With regard to the question of who uses RUT services, I would like to inform Mr Zander that she can review what the RUT contributions have been for. Then she will find bartenders and pool cleaners as well as a variety of other things. I do not think she is completely unaware that this has been reported. I don't know so well-behaved people that I can swim in their pools, but I still know that by being able to read about it.
i-92919def8f4ff654-483	Mr President, I would like to I can also read what the RUT deductions are used for. They are used by pensioners who get help with cleaning and so on at home. I don't think they have pools or bartenders at home, but we probably read various evaluations of the RUT services. But it has nothing to do with this thing. The most important thing is that RUT contributes to more people getting into work. It is very beneficial for families with children. We have proposed to set up an investigation to look at what the maintenance allowance can provide, instead of the maintenance allowance for single parents, who are mainly women. We haven't increased maintenance support. Instead, we have focused it on what has been the most targeted and most effective, i.e. multiple child allowances, housing allowances and additional housing allowances when you have older children living at home. Now is the time to make sure that both parents, according to their ability, support the children they have together. There we will in every way ensure that fathers are involved in providing compensation. Since we introduced the job tax deduction, men's income has increased but not women's income in the same way.
i-92919def8f4ff654-487	One reason for that is that fathers do not pay according to their ability. They stick to the maintenance allowance and do not give up what the children are entitled to. That is why I hope that you will be able to contribute to an investigation, because this will benefit gender equality.
i-92919def8f4ff654-488	Mr President, I would like to I have a big brother who's five years older than me. When he was born, it was not possible for our father to be at home with him and receive compensation for the loss of income. It was only the year after my brother was born, 1975, when parental insurance was introduced. Since then, thankfully, a lot has happened. Society has evolved and changed, and that is in the light of what you should see in parental insurance. Society is changing, and our systems are to follow these changes. Unfortunately, however, the basic structures of parental insurance have not changed as society develops. We are today debating financial security for families and children. While the definition of what a child is usually is quite self-evident, the definition of what a family is many times a little more unclear. We have bonus family and stepfamily. We have single family, single family, unprecedented family, rainbow family, core family, self-chosen family, star family, large family and extended family. From some quarters, it sometimes sounds like this nuclear family, that is, mother, father, and children, would be the obvious, the natural, and that everything else would be a deviation from what has come along. The truth is, it's not true. The so-called nuclear family is a fairly new construction. Throughout history, we have rather lived in large families in different ways, with relatives and different types of domestics, farmhands, maids and other loose people who have been at home. Rather, the nuclear family is a symptom of urbanisation. When people began to move from the country into the cities, they lived narrower, and the large family could not fit. The man was usually the easiest to get a job, and since there was no large family at home that could care for the children, it was the woman who was allowed to do so. Thankfully, family structures have changed and thus also the definition of what a family is. Had parental insurance come into existence today, it would certainly have been designed differently from forty years ago. Much of what we consider to be self-evident today would not have had to be debated at all, but we would probably have disagreed on some of them anyway. Some things have happened anyway. In 1994, 19 years after the introduction of parental insurance, the first earmarked month came on a liberal initiative. In 2002, the second came, and now comes the third. The design of parental insurance plays a crucial role in children's rights to their parents but also in the development of gender equality in the Swedish labour market. Basically, the emergence of parental insurance is an important part of Swedish welfare and a foundation for women's liberation. The economic inequality between men and women is widespread. This is accompanied by attitudes, mainstream gender roles and a gender-segregated labour market. But it is also clear that women's relatively longer periods of parental leave are hampering wage development and career development. Liberals see it and propose measures to change this order. Both the weighted months and the gender equality bonus are instruments in insurance that we have introduced to increase equality in withdrawals. We are therefore critical of the Government's proposal to phase out the economic stimulus for gender equality that the gender equality bonus entails. The gender equality bonus should be developed – not phased out – as a tool for greater equality, where the abolition of the custody allowance is another. I would also like to give a blow to the exercise on maternity benefit for self-employed workers. We believe that an investigation is needed to develop a uniform framework for the possibility of pregnancy benefit for self-employed workers. It may sound like a small question, but it is quite large, because it is a complicated regulation that is regulated by several laws. The review also shows that there are fairly large differences in the country between who receives and does not receive compensation, and it is not reasonable for laws and regulations to be interpreted so differently. According to Försäkringskassan's assessment, you are entitled to maternity benefit only if the employer considers that you cannot continue working in a hazardous environment. The problem is that you as a self-employed person do not have an employer, because it is after all you yourself. That is why this needs to be reviewed. Mr President, I would like to We think that you should be met by the same expectations as a parent regardless of your gender. Today, a quarter of parental leave is taken by men and three quarters by women. Families with children can, as I said, look in many different ways, and all parents should have the opportunity to combine working and entrepreneurship with parenting. We Liberals want a modern, free choice-oriented family policy that increases equality and encourages work. My brother was born before the parental insurance came into existence. Last year, he, in turn, had a son. With the pace of development that we have seen to date, perhaps my nephew's generation will be the one where you share parental insurance 50-50. But we Liberals think that there is a reason to speed this up a little bit. After all, it's a while before he hopefully has a baby. Society will continue to develop and change, and we will have to continue to develop and change our systems. I would like to ask you to accept reservation 7 in paragraph 7. Otherwise, I refer to the specific opinion of the Liberals.
i-92919def8f4ff654-500	Mr President, I would like to There is – and has been – an individualization in society for a number of decades. Today, people can choose in a completely different way than before to shape their lives according to their own wishes, values and interests. Different groups and collective expectations are by no means unimportant. But they tend to mean less and less to the different choices people make regarding, for example, education, occupation, family formation, religious affiliation and political conviction. In many respects individualization is positive. It can increase the power of individuals over their own lives. More people can choose to go their own way through life. More and more people can realize their own dreams and goals. But there are also drawbacks and risks to development. If individualisation leads to more fragile and less stable communities, trust, security and cohesion in society can be adversely affected. One way of weighing up the more negative aspects of individualisation is to pursue policies that strengthen close relations, small communities, civil society and families. Today, we are dealing with the state budget's expenditure category 12, financial security for families and children. How we handle the more than 87 billion SEK that is budgeted in this area for next year is of great importance for what conditions we give families to shape their everyday lives. This, in turn, has an impact on our children's and young people's growing-up conditions. Mr President, I would like to Children and young people who grow up in a secure family community are generally well placed to meet the challenges of life. Of course, there is no guarantee that everything will go well just because you have grown up in a well-functioning family, but the probability increases significantly. The results of empirical research are clear. Children growing up in unstable families generally have lower grades in school, are less likely to move on to higher education and have a lower degree of mental well-being and a higher probability of falling into unemployment and exclusion, compared to children from more stable conditions. In other words, strong families benefit our children and young people. They are good for society at large, and they will eventually also strengthen the public purse. In other words, one of the obvious objectives of family policy should be to provide the best possible conditions for families to stay together and a solid basis for as many parents as possible to provide safe growing conditions for their children. Mr President, I would like to There is a variety of family forms in today's Sweden. This diversity exists because people are different and have different characteristics, experiences and desires. But all of us need close and loving fellowship. Different families perform essentially the same function. They share the same everyday problems, and it is not the family form that determines the parents' ambition and ability to give children a good upbringing. Children have different needs, and parents have different preferences and set different priorities. But it is always the parents who have the primary responsibility to determine what is best for their children and their family – not the state or the municipality. Mr President, I would like to This very insight forms the basis of the Christian Democrats' family policy. That is why we want to make it easier for families to put their own life puzzle and to choose to prioritise more time for children if they so wish. These elections should be supported and not opposed. The purpose of the child care allowance and the background to our total opposition to the quota of parental insurance and the reason for our other proposals for freedom of choice reforms in childcare are precisely that children should be able to have more time together with their parents but also that parents should be able to shape their lives and their everyday lives according to their specific circumstances. We want to enhance parenthood and give parents room for manoeuvre, but we also ask that they take responsibility for their own situation. This is important, Mr President. Unlike the government, we protect everyone's ability to make active choices rather than the same outcome. This means acceptance because the result is not always the same for all families with children. Different outcomes may be due to different conditions. But they may also be due to the fact that families have simply made different priorities and choices, which ultimately lead to different outcomes or otherwise have financial consequences. Unfortunately, we have to say that the current government has a completely different basic view. Mr President, I would like to One priority area of family policy for the Christian Democrats is to support the most vulnerable families with children in economic terms. In this context, the focus of general policy should, of course, be on improving the economy of families through better opportunities for self-employment and savings, for example through tax reductions where possible. However, in our budget for next year, we also have a number of proposals aimed directly at families with children with a weak economy. We propose that the child-related part of the housing allowance be increased. Since the housing allowance is income-tested support, it is precisely families with children who are the most deprived, of which 70 per cent are single with children, who are part of the reinforcement. We also propose that the basic level of parental insurance be increased from SEK 225 per day to SEK 250 per day. In addition, we protect the leisure money. The statistics show that children and young people in economically vulnerable families are under-represented in organised leisure activities. The fact that the government chooses to abolish this support is therefore very unfortunate. Mr President, I would like to From the Christian Democrats' perspective for the current government a very unfortunate policy that will unfortunately have a negative impact on the country's families, including the parents' ability to give their children and young people the best possible start in life. Unfortunately, in the era of individualization, it will in the long term affect both society as a whole and our economy. To conclude, I therefore support our reservation 4. Otherwise, I refer to our particular opinion. Of course, we also support our other reservations, but for time to come, I am abstaining from calling for their approval in this House.
i-92919def8f4ff654-521	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report. Many families with children live in a constant puzzle and often struggle to bring the pieces together into a whole. The economy is, of course, an important part of it. Over time, we can see trends that have affected the financial situation of families with children, such as the shift in the age of establishment in the labour market, the increasing insecurity of the conditions of employment for young people and the fact that unemployment has stuck to a much too high level, even though it is now falling slightly. In combination with increased social gaps, improving and strengthening the situation of some 1.3 million children's households has become a key priority. It is basically a question of all children having safe and good growing-up conditions. Then, of course, we must first of all ensure that more women and men come to work and invest in school for a good knowledge acquisition and start-up in life for all. But, in parallel, it is of course more specifically a question of strengthening the support systems that affect the finances of families with children, and that is, as you know, the part that we are debating here today. For many years, our social security and social security systems have been built up and shaped to achieve a shared distribution of risks and costs between generations, between those who work and those who unfortunately do not currently have a job to go to, between us who are healthy and those who have had the bad luck of suffering from illness, between women and men and between households that have children and those that do not have children. The distribution policy is therefore a central and accurate part of our general welfare model, and it often plays a major and important role in the income of families with children. An important perspective of economic policies for children and families is also that families look different and that society's support therefore needs to be organised modern and flexible. Some children grow up with both their biological parents. Others live in reconstituted families or rainbow families. Some live with a single parent, others live alternately with the parents. Another natural starting point for me and the Social Democrats in family policy is that parents take joint responsibility for children as well as for work at home. We know that a high employment rate among women makes an enormous contribution to a strong economy and prosperity. Therefore, support for families must also be based on equal parenthood. Unfortunately, we have a very long way to go for an equal labour market and the distribution of unpaid work at home. But here politics, on the other hand, has an important instrument of governance in its hands that can actually contribute to greater equality. It is important that we accept this responsibility. That is why I am particularly pleased and proud of the decision we took in this House just a few weeks ago to reserve a third month of parental insurance for each parent, because we know from past experience that it is precisely this kind of reform that contributes to a more equal take-up of parental benefit and, in turn, actually has an impact on a more equal working life and society. Family economic policy is an area in which a great deal is happening and where the government has undeniably delivered. As I said, we have already had time to debate and decide on more equal parental insurance, on the abolition of the parental allowance and on improving and strengthening maintenance support. On the table today we have further proposals to raise the basic level of parental benefit and to set a new policy objective in this area, which goes hand in hand with the reforms mentioned above, which also aim to strengthen the economy of families with children and to promote equality of parenthood. An increased basic level of parental benefit, equivalent to SEK 750 per month, is a distributively accurate measure as it strengthens the economy of households with the lowest incomes and at the same time facilitates parents who have not yet been able to establish themselves firmly on the labour market to meet the requirements for parental benefit at the sickness benefit level. More comprehensively, as I said, it also proposes a new policy objective on financial security for families and children, designed to contribute to an economic standard of living that is good for all families with children and to reduce the differences in conditions between households with children and households without children. I would add that this is important not only from the point of view of fairness, from the point of view of distribution policy, but also provides more favourable conditions for increased childbirth. This, in turn, is necessary for us to manage and actually be able to afford to build well-being also for the next generations. In addition, the policy is, at last, proposed explicitly aimed at contributing to a more equal parenthood. Mr President, I would like to Women and men should have the same opportunities to shape their lives and society. It is therefore self-evident to me as a social democrat that one of the objectives of the country's family policy should be equality. After all, it's 2016 we're meeting now.
i-92919def8f4ff654-535	Mr President, I would like to I've been meaning to ask Teresa Carvalho a question about parental insurance. I know that we made decisions on this issue here in Parliament a few weeks ago, but it is nevertheless an issue that is topical in today's budget debate. In this matter, the government is pursuing a line that goes very strongly against the will of the people in Sweden. There have, of course, been many opinion polls on this, but the one I am happy to refer to is a Novus survey from April this year. It shows that an overwhelming majority of the population, 76 percent, believes that parents should decide for themselves how to distribute parental insurance. The Försäkringskassan also conducted a survey in 2012 among parents who have taken part in parental insurance. They were asked whether they have been satisfied with the distribution of parental leave they chose to make in their families, and it turned out that 89 per cent of women and 85 per cent of men are satisfied with their own distribution. Something I see as worrying about the government's line, in addition to being against the will of the people, is that it risks leading to less time with the parents for the children. For example, the government announces in the budget bill that it is appropriate to gradually reserve more time for each guardian, so one can assume that more is to be expected. As a result, parents will spend less time with their children. Therefore, I would like to ask Congressman Teresa Carvalho if she thinks that the parents spend too much time with their children today.
i-92919def8f4ff654-539	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by answering the question. No, I don't think you can say that parents spend too much time with their children. We have an extremely generous and flexible parental insurance which I think it is important that we safeguard, while adjusting it so that it has a more equal outcome. There is certainly no indication, as I know, that a third reserved month would have such an effect, but, as Mr Aron points out, the government estimates that more reserved time needs to be introduced gradually. As far as the people's will in this area is concerned, I am well aware of the studies referred to by Mr Aron, but I think it is extremely clear from the history behind us that politics needs to take precedence in order to achieve results here. We also know that the time reserved for each parent in parental insurance has been normative; it has affected how parents view the distribution of time at home with their children, in a positive direction. I am sure that a third month will also have that effect. For me as a social democrat, it is an obvious starting point that support for families should be based on parents sharing responsibility for children. That is why we choose to reserve more time for each parent. It's a smart way to get a good insurance policy to be equal too.
i-92919def8f4ff654-542	Mr President, I would like to Among other things, the Social Security Inspection, IFAU and the Ombudsman for Children have stressed that further quotas of parental insurance risk leading to a shorter time for the child together with the parents. We were talking about the government's ambitions regarding the paternity months – or the parental months – and I would say that there are several signals that the government wants things that will lead to limitations on the time parents spend with their children. I know that the Minister for Social Security has expressed a negative opinion on the possibility for parents today to take unpaid parental leave. The length of parental insurance has also been up for discussion in the last year, and then not on the basis that it should be longer but the opposite, so to speak. It is clear that the government does not primarily regard parental insurance as an instrument for families and children, but more and more as an instrument of equality policy that it wants to use to achieve results and a certain distribution in the field of gender equality policy. Finally, I would like to ask Teresa Carvalho: What makes the government think that the majority of Swedish parents are making wrong choices today, even though they make the choices on a voluntary basis and despite the fact that the vast majority are very satisfied with the choices they make? How do the Social Democrats believe that an additional quota of parental insurance, i.e. more control from above, affects the situation in families? How does such a thing as ill health affect, for example?
i-92919def8f4ff654-546	Mr President, I would like to Let me back up the band for 41 years. That's when today's parental insurance first saw the light of day. A great deal has happened during that time, not least in the labour market. We have seen not least the expansion of childcare facilities and many other reforms that have contributed to Sweden being today one of the countries in the world that has the highest participation in the labour market when we look at women. This is, of course, very positive, and on that basis, I do not think I will find a better word than a sad word because, at the same time, it looks so unequally on the labour market. Here, parental insurance is an important part of a larger puzzle. Getting equal benefits from parental insurance is not the only solution to the inequality we still see in our country today, but it is a very important piece of the puzzle. I would also like to remind Mr Aron that, despite the recent decision to reserve an additional month for each parent in parental insurance, a majority of the days are unreserved. It is still the case that our parental insurance is one of the most flexible insurance policies available. This applies not only to other social security schemes in our country, but also to other countries, we have extremely generous and flexible parental insurance. We'll take care of it, but there's plenty of room to make the outcome more equal. Aron Modig asked why equality is important. Yes, the answer might be summed up by the fact that we are now meeting in 2016.
i-92919def8f4ff654-550	Mr President, I would like to Last year, 2014, parental insurance in Sweden became 40 years old. I don't know if anyone was celebrating it at the time, but it would have been worth celebrating. Parental insurance was introduced in 1974. It was general and a total of 180 days. Over the years, the insurance was extended, and today it covers 480 days. In 1995, the first father's month was introduced when each parent received 30 days that could not be transferred to the second. In 2002, the second father month was launched by extending the reserved days to 60. Since then, men's share of parental allowance days has doubled. Of course, that is good, but men still only take out every four days. Almost one out of every five dads don't charge parental benefit at all. That is, of course, less good, for a number of reasons. In fact, research shows that children with two involved parents generally have less mental problems than in families where the mother takes all responsibility. But it is not just the children who feel good from present fathers. There is also research to show that the fathers themselves are doing well. If you want parents to share more responsibility during early childhood and for fathers to take a larger share of parental leave, the reserved months are most likely to have an effect on fathers' withdrawals, according to a report from the Social Security Inspection published in 2012 – this compared to, for example, the gender equality bonus that does not have that effect at all. The fact that another month of parental insurance is reserved for each parent is not just a reform that is good for men and children. It is equally a reform that benefits women. One of the main reasons why women have lower living wages than men is that they participate less in working life and do more unpaid work. They are at home longer with the children and work more part-time when the children are young. It may affect future wage developments, and in any case it affects their pensions. An extra month reserved for each parent does not mean that we are in goal in any way. Parental insurance needs to be reformed in order to fully promote gender equality and to enable all children to be cared for by their close adults. It was a long time ago that the nuclear family – mother, father and children – was the only norm. Today, about a third of all children experience separation of their parents during their upbringing. And more and more children grow up in star families with one single parent, in a reconstituted family, with two mothers, with two fathers or with several adults. Parental insurance does not meet the needs of these children and families. A grandparent, cohabiting partner or partner who is not the child's guardian can play as important a role in the children's life as a parent. Perhaps other than legal guardians must be able to be covered by parental insurance, we think. The Green Party feels it is very good that a third month is reserved for each parent, but in the long term we want parental insurance to be divided into three parts, one for each parent, one for any other adult close to the child and one that can be shared between the parents as they wish. A further step in adapting legislation to current realities is also to explore the possibility of allowing a child to have more than two guardians. Mr President, I would like to The organisation Entrepreneurs showed in a report last spring how the withdrawal of parental leave from parents who run their own business differs from the group of parents as a whole. The difference is particularly noticeable when it comes to women's withdrawals. It is important that people do not hesitate to start a business just because parental insurance is not modern enough to take account of the needs of small businesses in particular when they have or intend to have children. Having said that, I am pleased that the government is now making a substantial review of parental insurance in all its parts in the sense of modernising it. The red-green parties ensure that the basic level of parental benefit is increased, which is particularly beneficial for families with children who are economically vulnerable, not least young parents who have not been able to enter the labour market. And it has a great distributional accuracy. This, together with the decision to increase maintenance support, means that this government has taken important steps in a fairly short time to improve the standard of living of these families. In addition, the Government intends to analyse and consider the need for further appropriate measures for housing allowance and maintenance support, as well as to look at regulatory simplifications regarding child benefit and parental insurance. To conclude, Mr President, I can only say that the Red-Green Government gives priority to the living conditions of families with children and to modern parenthood. Mr President, I would like to I support the committee's proposal for a decision.
i-92919def8f4ff654-564	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by saying that I find it unfortunate that the Minister for Social Security is no longer here in the debate. These are issues that affect millions of families with children. As a member of an opposition party, I would have liked to have asked questions to the minister responsible in this debate. However, since the Minister for Social Security has chosen to delete himself on the list of speakers and leave the room, I will see Rickard Persson as the representative of the government and ask him my questions. Rickard Persson mentioned that the government is very happy that the entire parental insurance policy will now be reviewed. We have pointed out in the past that we in the opposition find it regrettable that, in this case, we must not be involved in the discussions when looking at such an incredibly important area as parental insurance which affects so many people. In a debate that we had here a few weeks ago, you said in the government parties that you should try to make sure that the opposition can be heard, that you should take in the views of the opposition and that in some form we should also be able to be part of the working group. I wonder what the government has to give us. As I understand it, the working group has already started its work. I have heard that some organisations have already met with the Minister for Social Security. What can you tell us in the opposition? Will we be able to participate in the work of reviewing the entire parental insurance policy?
i-92919def8f4ff654-568	Mr President, I would like to I was asked if you could take part in this work. It is, of course, the case that we constantly review, prepare and investigate a lot of changes in social security. There will be great opportunities for you to participate in the discussion about parental insurance. But we cannot set up a parliamentary inquiry for every search of social security as we do. We have had a huge parliamentary inquiry into social security, but it is not possible to add it as soon as we search an area. You will certainly be able to take part in the debate and the discussion in a variety of ways, through committee work and in other ways. That's what I can tell you. What the Minister has said, I cannot vouch for here.
i-92919def8f4ff654-570	Mr President, I would like to This response makes me even more concerned than I was before. These are issues that affect many people. Rickard Persson says that one cannot set up a parliamentary inquiry for each and every other area. No, but an area that affects millions of people in Sweden should, of course, reasonably have a parliamentary inquiry. If we are to pursue a serious policy of long-term rules of play, which I believe is absolutely necessary in this area, we must move towards a climate of dialogue that is beyond the debates in this House and in the committee. All of us Members of Parliament know that cooperation and discussions take place in completely different ways depending on the forum, and this House is not the right forum for finding compromises on long-term rules of play. I hope that you can come back and give a better message, not least to Sweden's families with children. The risk is that by 2018, when we win the election, we will tear up some of these proposals to redo them, and that is not sustainable in the long term. You, Rickard Persson, also mentioned in your speech another quota month in parental insurance, which I would also like to mention in my line change. You said you wanted to go one more step further. Then my question is: Is this the government's message? Are we going to get a three-part parental insurance policy? Is this the message we can give to families with children today?
i-92919def8f4ff654-575	Mr President, I would like to Let me give a brief and concise answer to the last question asked: No, it is the Green Party that wants this. Tina Ghasemi says that when you come to power in the next elections, which I do not think you do, you will tear up a lot of reforms. My counter-question will be: will you then set up parliamentary investigations? When you were in charge of social security during the eight years you were in the alliance government and came up with a lot of reforms and regulatory changes, not least regarding the work of the Social Insurance Agency, you did not set up parliamentary investigations. The opposition was not allowed to participate in the discussions in any noticeable way. Right?
i-92919def8f4ff654-578	Mr President, I would like to We have heard the Social Democrats and now the Green Party's Rickard Persson talk about quotas working. It is strange to boast that coercion works. Of course coercion works. It leans on investigations that say that this works and that it is the best way. Of course, I was about to say that coercion works. It's basically the same thing as cutting off your head because you think you have annoying beard growth. Of course it works, but it may not be the best way.
i-92919def8f4ff654-580	Mr President, I would like to I don't know if it was a question or a statement. It's not a coercion. I see it as an opportunity. Every time we have introduced benefits for the parents to be able to care for the children through parenting months, father months and so on, it has had an effect. It's been proven over time. The parents have taken joint responsibility for the children, which has benefited the whole family: the children, the mother, and the father.
i-92919def8f4ff654-582	Mr President, I would like to Then we are there again: It has an effect. It is clear that it has an effect, because people cannot afford to ignore parental insurance. That's what it's all about. Then it is clear that it has an effect. Then each parent stays at home for the time he or she has to. It's nothing weird. Philty-fifty would work, too. It would also have an effect, because people cannot afford to ignore this. It's not state aid. It is the family's own money that the families pay in by far during their lifetime. You, Rickard Persson, talk about it as a tool and a support that the state is kind and gives to the families who need it – as if it were the state's money, but it is not. It's presumptuous. I also hear that three months is not enough. You presented your position, which is a three-part parental insurance policy. 90% are against quotas at all, according to surveys. I think it risks becoming dangerous for the view of politicians and the parliament if one flagrantly ignores the opinion that exists. How do you see it?
i-92919def8f4ff654-586	Mr President, I would like to Unlike you, Linus Bylund, I claim that this is a support and very much for women. Over time, we have seen how unfair child care has been distributed. The effect of this has been that women who want to enter the labour market have not had the same opportunity because men have decided who should care for children. That is why it is very much a support for women. It has also had an effect, as we can see.
i-92919def8f4ff654-587	Honored Parliament! In the budget negotiations with the government, one of the Left Party's priorities has been to reduce the income gap between women and men. Therefore, increased maintenance aid has been an important issue. It was therefore a great disappointment when the Swedish Democrats and the bourgeois parties fell the red-green budget last year because it included, among other things, just increased maintenance support. It is an aid that has been increased by only SEK 100 over the last 20 years. But now we raise it by 300 kroner a month per child. For many children and single parents, this will mean a lot. It is a group that has been standing back for many years, and the debate on child poverty has been going on for a long time. Now we are doing something that improves the finances of many families. Parental insurance is the most important key to achieving gender equality. Individualised parental insurance is the reform that would do the most for greater equality between men and women in economics, health and working life opportunities. The figures speak for themselves. 15 years after a couple had their first child, their income difference has increased by 35 percent. It is because women have primary responsibility for children and homes. With the pace men take out parental days today, it will take 50 years before the withdrawal is equal. We have neither the time nor the money to wait 50 years before taking out parental insurance is equal. The state cannot continue to contribute to an inequality that affects all our daughters. The Left Party no longer alone in realizing that the individualisation of parental insurance plays a key role in gender equality. The report Men and Gender Equality was presented almost two years ago. It was an investigation set up by the bourgeois government. The investigator stated that the most important thing for gender equality development is individualised parental insurance. The former Secretary General of the Social Insurance Investigation, Irene Wennemo, also derived the unequal treatment of women to a greater extent than men. It is now 12 years since the second father month was introduced. This second month, male withdrawals increased by less than ten days on average. As I said, at the pace of the day, it will take almost five decades before we achieve a level-playing field. That's an unreasonable amount of time. Seen in the rear-view mirror, we know that reserving another month will have little effect. The whole life situation of women is at stake. Taking out parental insurance affects women's working conditions, wages, health and pension. As is generally the case today, women are adversely affected. The government has ambitions to be a feminist government. It is a good thing and something we have contributed to. In the budget we are dealing with, it is the Left Party that has pushed through increased maintenance support for single people, money for maternity care and women's shelters, a major investment in more employees in elderly care and reduced taxes for poor pensioners. We have finally abolished the custody allowance and the gender equality bonus, which at best had a marginal effect on the withdrawal of parental insurance. However, a government with an ambition to be feminist must also dare to tackle the structural problems, and parental insurance plays a key role, as I said. Now it's a little messy again with an ear tag that will make more fathers stay at home and make the unequal withdrawal of days become a little less unequal. But the Left Party is not satisfied with an earmarking when it comes to parental insurance. It is time for a holistic approach to what equal parenthood actually means. As long as the idea of freedom of choice is a superior principle for future reforms, parental insurance will continue to make it difficult for employers and continue to lock parents into dated gender roles. Then a third so-called father's month is not enough. I know that both government parties are aware of this. The Congress of Social Democrats decided only last spring that parental insurance should be individualised. In the last election movement, the Green Party pushed for three-parting. We therefore know that within S and MP there is a desire to take greater steps forward. It is urgent to do so. We can't earmark 12 years at a time. We don't have time for that. Our daughters don't have time for that. I and the Left Party look forward to the continued cooperation with the government in the review of parental insurance to strengthen women's living conditions and economics. Gender equality is about sharing equal, not a little alike, but simply equal.
i-92919def8f4ff654-606	Mr President, I would like to It is interesting to listen to the Left Party and their proposals. There is only one way to tackle equality and parental insurance. I wonder if there is no other way. Increased wages could be one way, and perhaps more employers for women where they had the opportunity to change employers and influence their work situation. That this should be so is not something the Left Party had in mind. In this context, I have to come back to the line shift we had earlier. We talked about RUT, pool services and such. RUT is most common among families with children and pensioners, as I said. In addition, we know that the most common thing is – I would say 99% – that they use it for cleaning. It dominates when you look at the statistics. Now it was about families with children. They also get part of the RUT. Is the only way to get an equal take-out of parental insurance the obligation to share equally? Could it not be that it is also about raising the wages of women and that they should have a completely different and wider labour market?
i-92919def8f4ff654-609	We in the Left Party have a number of suggestions on how to increase gender equality and improve women's conditions. Among other things, the increase in wages mentioned by Solveig Zander is one such thing. It has been part of the efforts that we have been involved in the budget to ensure that the gaps between men and women are reduced. The right to full-time is another such important reform and six-hour working day. The Left Party is involved in driving it fully, among other things, in Gothenburg, and it is doing very well. This reduces sickness rates and gives women better working conditions. There are many more ways to increase gender equality. But you can't get away from parental insurance. It is not something that only the Left Party thinks. The investigator appointed by the previous bourgeois government, Svend Dahl, found in Men and Gender Equality that it is crucial. It is about parental insurance and that it must be individualised. Irene Wennemo said the same thing in the Social Security investigation. It is not just the Left Party that says this. Even when you have looked at pensions and that there is such a large proportion of women who are poor pensioners, you derive it to the unequal take-out of parental insurance. It is women who have been responsible for homes and children. With all these insights and what we know, as Solveig Zander, one cannot keep turning a blind eye to it and saying: We are doing something else. The gender equality bonus had almost zero effect. We have tried all the other solutions. Now is the time to have the insight that we should individualize parental insurance. That is what must now be done.
i-92919def8f4ff654-614	Mr President, I would like to Wages play a very important role in taking out parental insurance. I wonder again: Would it not be beneficial to invest in women and female entrepreneurship? I have just heard that you, from the Left Party, had apparently been involved in negotiating salaries. You had suggested raising wages. Or did I hear you wrong? The Left Party says that it has contributed to reducing working hours to six hours. Is it something that raises wages for women? It's only in the public sector. Should women just be referring to the public sector? Why do you not want to help us get more employers for public sector professions? When women change employers, they really get paid.
i-92919def8f4ff654-616	We know that wages but also working conditions are related to the nature of parental insurance. It is a question of women's working conditions, why it is women who work part-time, why it is women who are more insecure jobs and why women are those who have lower wages. It has to do with who is supposed to be responsible for home and children. You get back to it. Nevertheless, we must make efforts to catch up on women's wages. Solveig Zander himself mentioned the job tax deduction in the last line shift we had together. She herself says that the job tax deduction led to an increase in the gap between men's and women's income. It shows how little you push for equality from the bourgeois side. We have contributed. We want to reduce those gaps. We have been involved in the budget in terms of job tax deductions, maintenance support and a variety of other issues in order to reduce income gaps between men and women. Again, it is not possible to get away from what more and more people are now beginning to realize. Parental insurance and individualised parental insurance than the key to achieving gender equality, not a little gender equality or a little more gender equality without gender equality.
i-92919def8f4ff654-621	Mr President, I would like to The first job is the most important job. It's the first thing that can give a second and a third job. It's about getting a chance to step into the labour market and show what we're capable of. It is an extra challenge if we, as young people, get there without experience. But it's unbelievably important. It's a chance to get in. Mr President, I would like to We can now see a new emerging alienation in Sweden. The former broad exclusion has been replaced in a new and more pointed one, which primarily hits young and foreign born. These challenges will also increase as a result of many people having gone to Sweden and continuing to go to Sweden. Mr President, I would like to It is very easy for politicians to say that everyone should be able to work and have a chance. But if we are serious about this type of speech, active political decisions are needed. It is in the light of this that the proposals put forward by the Moderates in their budget motion should be seen. We have a special package to push back the new exclusion with a special form of employment, the first-job employment, a targeted tax reduction for the first job but also such a thing as an extension of the ROT deduction to include also such things as floating services. We can note, Mr President, that the government is facing the new exclusion by making it more expensive to hire and less profitable to work and by reducing RUT and ROT in various ways. Or to put it differently: The challenges in Sweden in the future are growing. The government faces it by deteriorating for both people and companies. It's just not good enough. The new exclusion is one of Sweden's major challenges in the short term, together with increasing international competition and the need to have more companies growing. If we raise our eyes, we can see trends in the world that give both problems and opportunities for Sweden if we talk about globalisation, urban urban environments and digitalisation that transforms industry by industry. In that environment, my conclusion is that we in Sweden need to make more reforms that make it easier for companies and for enterprising people. That is simply how we should be able to cope with this increasing international competition. That is why in our draft budget we are investing heavily in research and in infrastructure. We invest in school, for example, through more career positions. We are putting forward concrete proposals to facilitate access to venture capital. We lower the requirements for share capital to get more people to start a business. We make a special effort to help companies to shop more with others. We are clear that we want to make it easier for more companies and entrepreneurs to use options as an instrument to grow. We're expanding the RUT deduction. We have a series of reforms to make, not least, older people stay longer in the labour market. The list can be made longer, Mr President. These and other things are examples of the kind of reforms we want to make to meet Sweden's bigger challenges. It is ultimately a question of having an impact on the everyday lives of people and businesses. This is simply how we build competitiveness in order for Swedish companies to be able to withstand the toughening international competition. If we get into a trade discussion, we can see that it is good conditions here at home in Sweden that decide whether a company is going to be able to withstand the tough competition in Germany, China, USA or other countries. Against the Alliance stands one, as I think, passive government. To meet the major challenges, it is more talk than concrete political action on the part of the government. That's not good enough. Let me take two examples, Mr President. Of course there are others. We can take energy policy, which is crucial for the important Swedish industry where we have historically managed to secure energy supply. So when we see increasing internationalisation and competition, the government chooses to significantly increase the nuclear tax. It is a tax that, together with low electricity prices, has already announced the closure of four nuclear reactors. It is uncertain what will happen to the remaining ones. The government is thus putting Sweden in an uncertain position with regard to the important energy supply. It won't do if we continue to be an industrial and entrepreneurial country. We can also take the example of transport. Half of the Swedish economy is linked to trade, i.e. imports and exports. Then transport is crucial. It is about getting the goods to flow into Sweden and out to customers. Our answer is to facilitate transport through more investment in road and rail maintenance, longer and heavier truck transport and a series of other things. On the contrary, the government's agenda is the reverse: how can we make the important transports more difficult, worse and more expensive? We can concretely exemplify such things as that the government continues to work to close Bromma airport despite Parliament's decision. This is being done despite the importance we know that the airport has for different shipments. The government is working to introduce a kilometre tax on truck taxes and a flight tax. All of this is clearly striking, not least outside the country's major cities, at important industries and other companies. It is not connected with us being an industrial and entrepreneurial country forward. If we are to lay the foundations for more jobs and growing companies, we need to have a reform agenda that makes it easier for businesses and for enterprising people. We have this with the parties of the Alliance, but we do not have it with this government.
i-92919def8f4ff654-635	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 1. The Swedish Democrats are a social conservative party free from the economic theories of liberalism and socialism. We can therefore adopt a pragmatic and realistic approach to economic issues. Provided that it benefits Sweden and its citizens, we are open to discussions, discussions and collaborations with all parties. We believe that there should be no contradiction between growth and employment, on the one hand, and general welfare, security and social responsibility, on the other. In the long run, however, the Swedish Democrats await a discussion about what is actually generating growth and new successful companies. We do not exclude that the state should take a step backwards in certain areas and leave innovation, entrepreneurship and business renewal to the most appropriate private actors whose conditions can rather be optimised through reforms in, for example, the tax area. Visit Sweden is Sweden's communications company with the mission to promote Sweden internationally and help strengthen Sweden's brand to get more tourists to travel here. The company currently has a presence in twelve priority markets with its own offices. The Swedish Democrats see India as a growing economy with many potential future tourists. In order to be able to take part of these future tourists, Visit Sweden should open an office in India with the aim of marketing Sweden, which provides the right conditions for increased Indian tourism. The Swedish Democrats believe in the long-term rules of the game for business, and our nutritional policy extends across several policy areas. Competitive energy supply and healthy competition are a few of the prerequisites for a good business climate. We believe that there is a need for a natural balance between employers and employees. Free trade and global trade agreements mean increased international competition but also greater opportunities for Swedish companies. Our view is that this creates more jobs in Sweden. The Swedish Democrats therefore want to create the conditions for a competitive Swedish business through global trade agreements. Swedish small businesses have accounted for a large part of employment growth during previous booms. The Swedish democrats' industrial policy therefore focuses largely on small companies. We want to reduce the administrative burden on small businesses. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish democrats want to increase the number of permitted exceptions in the order rules from two to five. We want to give employers more opportunity to retain key people with the right skills. We also minimise the lock-in effects for workers with long work experience from the same workplace if they want to change jobs. The Swedish Democrats propose to increase the start-up contribution through two priorities. We want to lower the overall limit in order to be able to apply for the grant to 20 years instead of today's 25 years. The Swedish Democrats also propose that the aid should be paid for nine months instead of six months today. The Swedish Democrats want to completely abolish the general payroll tax for all companies with up to nine employees. All companies with a salary sum of up to SEK 2 710 080 per year, corresponding to nine positions with average salary per employee, are thus exempted from the general wage and salary contribution. This means that a total of 300 000 small businesses are completely exempt from the general wage charge. The Swedish Democrats want to introduce a sick pay deduction for small companies. We want to reform health pay responsibility and the burden on micro- and small businesses so that it is significantly alleviated. In order to avoid threshold effects, we are designing the reform in such a way that each company may deduct its sickness pay costs corresponding to the cost of sickness pay for an average employee up to a maximum of nine employees.
i-92919def8f4ff654-647	Mr President, I would like to Johan Nissinen raises the issue of tourism and tourists in his speech, and that is of course incredibly important. We have an extensive tourism industry in Sweden. Tourists come to larger cities as well as to places outside the larger cities to ski and other things. The tourism industry is an industry that is good at bringing in people, and it is a lot about what will and drive you have as a person rather than what educational background and experience you have. Then we can see this emerging exclusion in Sweden, which, in the labour market, is striking so clearly above all against young and foreign born. We note that the Swedish Democrats have previously had proposals to raise taxes to hire young people, i.e. that it will be more difficult for young people to enter the labour market. The Swedish Democrats also have proposals to raise the restaurant VAT, which would clearly hit the tourism industry. If you add this to the new exclusion and the need to get more jobs for young people – in rural areas, a restaurant or hotel is often crucial to make the district work and grow – it leads me to ask Johan Nissinen why the Swedish Democrats want to impair restaurants and other tourism. Why do you want to make it difficult for young people to enter the labour market, and why do you want to weaken the possibility of being entrepreneurs in rural areas?
i-92919def8f4ff654-651	Mr President, I would like to Several institutes have assessed that the investments made by the Alliance before do not work. The reduction of employers' contributions for young people has not given any more jobs, nor has the tourism VAT paid so many desired jobs. That is why we are instead focusing on general measures that will benefit the whole labour market. Then employers hire widely. One should not benefit specific groups, but it is better for everyone to have opportunities. This will also give young people opportunities, and if they do not have the opportunity to work in certain sectors, they will have to offer training courses to enable them to enter the labour market.
i-92919def8f4ff654-653	Mr President, I would like to I have the greatest respect that we can land in various proposals and solutions to meet some of the challenges. We can put aside the youth tax and look at the restaurant VAT instead. There was an evaluation the other week which showed that this has given thousands of new jobs. If we look at the tourism industry as an industry, we can see that a large proportion of people who work in it are young people. It's about a third. The share of foreign births is also one third. More than half of the tourism companies are run by people from foreign backgrounds. The industry is one of the clearest examples when it comes to low-threshold jobs, i.e. the first important job to enter the labour market. If you double the food VAT for restaurants, as the Swedish Democrats say you should, it is clear that it will have an effect for a restaurant or a hotel whether it is in Stockholm's inner city or in some village or village in the countryside. Then we come back to the fact that it is with almost surgical precision that the proposals of the Swedish Democrats strike at the opportunities of young and foreign born people to enter the labour market. So the question is, what were you thinking?
i-92919def8f4ff654-657	Mr President, I would like to As I said earlier, we have general measures, such as the abolition of the general salary levy and a lightened sickness pay liability. This benefits everyone, especially small businesses with a smaller number of employees. That's where we see most jobs being created. Four out of five jobs are created in small businesses. That is where the bets should be made, and they should be done not only for one group but generally. Instead of small measures that have not been proven to work, we are investing in general.
i-92919def8f4ff654-659	Mr President, I would like to Johan Nissinen makes several interesting statements here, I have to say, especially in the line shift with Lars Helmered. First of all, there is nothing called turi sm VAT. I can inform Nissinen that it's 6, 12 and 25 percent we're talking about. It's different VAT for different things. If you go into a zoo it is a VAT rate, and if you travel by bus it is another VAT rate. If you go into a museum there is another VAT rate, and a guidebook you buy has a different VAT rate. There are three VAT rates, and we Christian Democrats have worked to make a uniform VAT rate. I would therefore like to ask Mr Nissinen whether it really is the case that the Swedish Democrats want a tourism VAT. And if so, would they work to achieve uniformity so that the many small companies in the tourism industry can manage their administration and sales in an equal way? Those with little resources could do better business if they did not have a part of the administration. Nissinen may think that tourism VAT is the same thing as the reduction in the social security contribution for young people, as Mrs Hjälmered also mentioned, or the reduction in food VAT, which suddenly became 12%, except for conferences where you still have to pay 25%, which is completely illogical. Would the Swedish Democrats agree to work to ensure that food at conferences also receives a VAT rate of 12 per cent?
i-92919def8f4ff654-664	Mr President, I would like to As regards, for example, the restaurant VAT, which we were talking about, the institutes have said that this has not produced the desired effect. That is why we are making general efforts to provide more jobs and to make it easier for small businesses. I don't really know what it was like with the tourism VAT and where you got it from, Penilla Gunther. With regard to an equal rate of VAT, I can ask a question back. Should we raise or lower then, and how are we going to get everything going? If you lower all the VAT, the government may not get the necessary resources, and it may not create anything else, and if you raise the food VAT, you may risk that families who do not have it easily cannot afford to buy food. What have you been thinking there?
i-92919def8f4ff654-666	Mr President, I would like to You have spoken this out yourself with tourism VAT in d itt replicate with Lars Hjälmered, Johan Nissinen. I guess you mean something by that word and it has a meaning. That's why I asked the question. What is tourism VAT for the Swedish Democrats? Is that 6, 12 or 25 percent? The levelling-up, harmonisation and VAT rates must be investigated. But the question is, do you really want it investigated? With regard to general measures, I wonder what kind of nonsense it is – excuse the choice of words, Mr President – to talk about general measures when we discuss VAT rates in the tourism industry. It is about reducing employers' contributions for young people, which not only means reducing employers' contributions for the tourism industry itself, but also employers' contributions for personal assistance, for example, where many young people have been given their first job. I didn't get an answer about the food stuff. I can ask the question again. If we are now going to have reduced food VAT, could it not be logical that we have it evenly across so that we can also stimulate the meeting industry by having a 12% VAT when we eat at conferences? You and I both go to conferences from time to time, and we'll be aware that we pay twice as much VAT for the food we eat then as for other food.
i-92919def8f4ff654-670	Mr President, I would like to We make general investments in small businesses, and it benefits all sectors, whether they are tourism, industry or any other sector. We have, as I said, invested in the general salary contribution and the responsibility for sickness pay. It benefits all small businesses. If you come up with a proposal that looks good and works for Sweden and business when it comes to VAT, we can always take a position on it.
i-92919def8f4ff654-672	Mr President, I would like to In its draft budget, the Center Party has focused on reducing costs for businesses in particular. We think that is the basis for creating more jobs. In the long run, it also provides a greater basis for well-being. The more people who work, the more money it becomes for school, health care and care. During the Alliance's time in government, people got more money in their wallets, and more companies had the opportunity to hire. Thus, we were able to reduce taxes on individuals and companies, while at the same time reducing public debt. According to SKL, it added 160 billion more to taxes and state subsidies to county councils and municipalities. Unfortunately, the Swedish Government is heading in the opposite direction. Large tax increases on jobs and entrepreneurship risk breaking the recovery and will hit tens of thousands of jobs. In addition, the exodus of the state authorities, together with the increase in fuel tax, contributes not least to further gaps between the city and the country. Mr President, I would like to The world is changing, and we see large flows of refugees. In order to make use of all the skills, we also need what is usually called simple jobs. Did you know that Sweden is one of the countries in Europe that has the lowest proportion of simple jobs? Not all people who come to our society have a higher education, but you still have a lot to contribute – as long as you get the opportunity. Why is that? Well, in Sweden we have for a long time streamlined both operations and jobs. We also place higher demands on education. That is why we have a society that does not contain as many simple jobs today as it did perhaps 20 years ago. Nevertheless, the government chooses to halve the RUT deduction and reduce the ROT deduction. It is deductions that have reduced the proportion of undeclared jobs and have given rise to a large number of new businesses. In fact, these companies have employed many people who have previously been far from the labour market. In the past, the Social Democrats have been quick to criticise, among other things, RUT. Together with the Left Party, they have tried to make people believe that only wealthy people use the deduction. But that's not true. When the Center Party produced figures, for example through the Swedish Tax Agency, it turned out that more than seven out of ten who buy RUT services earn less than SEK 32 000 a month. In addition, it turned out that it is women to a greater extent than men who buy the services and that their use is increasing throughout the country. The truth is that in 2013, 537 000 people used domestic services, and the largest shopping groups are families with children and persons over the age of 65. In fact, the RUT industry has grown strong. And of those who run the companies, seven out of ten are women. This means that the RUT deduction is not only cost-effective; it also gives women economic power and helps people to move from unemployment to work. Given all the positive effects of the RUT and ROT deductions in Sweden and given that we need more simple jobs, the government should quickly restore the deterioration that has been achieved in this area. According to a recent Global Entrepreneurship Monitor survey, the proportion of women in start-ups in Sweden decreased by 40 per cent between 2013 and 2014. The study is undoubtedly the greatest estimate of entrepreneurs' activity, ambition and attitude. When fewer women choose to become business leaders, fewer women enjoy financial power and influence. This is, of course, a problem for economic equality. Looking at the rear-view mirror, the case of business start-ups is a dramatic turn. Between 2006 and 2012, the number of enterprises run by women increased by 50,000, and the number employed by women's enterprises increased by 130 000. It strengthened women's economic power and created more jobs in Sweden. The steep fall that is now taking place means that Sweden not only breaks a positive development. We also stand out compared to other countries. It should be an unacceptable development for a feminist government but has so far not attracted much interest from either Prime Minister Stefan Löfven or Minister for Enterprise Mikael Damberg. Finally, I would like to talk a little about public procurement. A government inquiry in this area suggests that contracting authorities, i.e. state authorities, municipalities and county councils and their companies, should be obliged to require collective agreement conditions from companies involved in public procurement. However, the same conditions should not apply to the foreign competitors of the entrepreneur. Let me explain! This means, for example, that if a company is based in another country but has staff in Sweden, the company is not subject to the same rules as the Swedish companies. There is also another problem. Surveys carried out by Sifo show that around 60% of small businesses do not have collective agreements or suspension agreements. Here it is important to point out that most of the small businesses are serious, both in terms of their activities and in terms of providing their employees with good working conditions. However, if the investigation's proposals go through, the large group of companies will find it difficult to compete in public procurement. It's serious. In addition, there are further concerns as such requirements risk leading to an increase in public procurement, as there will be as many as they will not be able to participate. Although it is very important to have decent working conditions – I really want to emphasise this – one must not turn a blind eye to this problem when dealing with the investigation.
i-92919def8f4ff654-687	Mr President, I would like to In her speech, Helena Lindahl highlighted RUT services and the change agreed between the Left Party and the Government in connection with the budget. Helena Lindahl tries to say that it would have a major impact on women's labour force participation but above all on regional growth. There is a problem in the way Helena Lindahl describes the change that is now about to happen. According to Helena Lindahl, a large number of people use RUT deductions. She says that it is about half a million people in Sweden. It should be made clear that what the Left Party and the Government now agree on is that we should lower the ceiling for how large a RUT deduction can be made for services. We're not lowering the deduction for everyone. We'll lower it for those under the age of 65. It thus affects 11% of all RUT deductions made today. We do not even touch on a large part. But we point to a very important factor. It is that among the half million people who use RUT services there is a big difference in how to use them. It may be something you use once for moving from one apartment to another or from one house to another. It can also be used virtually every day to have an indoor pool, an outdoor pool, a gardener, a restaurant chef, and so on. When we look deeper into the statistics we can see that those who use the RUT deductions to a large extent, who cost us taxpayers the most money, are also very rich. For me, it is more important that my tax money is used to clean children's baths than to clean Helena Lindahl's toilet.
i-SCXr893TgovnHwaobWEjfM	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Håkan Svenneling, for a starving post! I can inform Svenneling that I clean my toilet myself. It costs nothing but a little energy from my own side. It is strange that the Left Party, which wants to stand for equality, at the same time hijacks women who want to run businesses along with the ankle bumps. Because that's exactly what you're doing. I remember the last election campaign, or if it was the past, when you threw yourself away with words like a maid deduction. You didn't say a man's allowance for men, but a maid's deduction was the word you used. You know, there is nothing that annoys me as much as when people who want to pretend to be feminists use such derogatory expressions about women. Basically, what women do and have done at all times is not valued as highly as what men do. That's exactly what it's all about. It is certainly not true that it would be rich people who use these services to a greater extent. As I said in my speech, the Tax Agency itself has said that the majority of users of services are people who have an income below 32 000. It is also people who are over 65 years of age, and above all it is women more than men who make use of these services. So don't try to knock blue thunder in my eyes and start discussing like this was supposed to be a rich man's venture! Because that's not true.
i-92919def8f4ff654-699	Mr President, I would like to We have a classic political conflict here. We both see the need for greater equality and the need for more women running companies. The only difference is that we have different paths there. If we ensure that small companies and innovative ideas have greater access to public venture capital, then these ideas and companies have a better chance of success. Banks are unable to deliver capital to women, to people with foreign background and to young people. You don't believe in them as credible entrepreneurs. When Almi steps in and delivers loans, the bank also steps in and says: We believe in your business idea. This, Helena Lindahl, will lead to more female entrepreneurs, more women who work in Swedish society so that you get the female employment to the same level as men's. There's still some work to be done here. I think it will lead to maybe we get a little dirtier toilets in rich people, but what I can live with, because I know it will be a better society.
i-92919def8f4ff654-703	Mr President, I would like to I am not going to comment on that discussion any more, because I think it is superfluous. I hope Håkan Svenneling also has the courage to say this to all women who work and run companies in the RUT sector. Six months ago, there was a group here that was involved in board issues. Various projects have been found, including one called Regeringskraft, which Almi has run where you will try to get more women to become active on boards. We were in the Second Chamber, and I've never been to a meeting with people from all over Sweden – I think we were 80 – 90 people. There was an amazing power in the hall. What was saddened about was the fact that the government, together with the Left Party, unfortunately closed down this activity in the same way that you have now also shut down Women's Ambassadorship, a successful project that has been run through the Swedish Agency for Growth. Women have gone around the country and informed young people and others about what it is like to be an entrepreneur and that women can. That's what you've done. Finally, I have also been told that Winnet – which often consists of non-profit associations – who conduct gender equality work around Sweden should not receive any further money. This means that if you do not have a municipality behind you with muscles and a lot of money, there will be no activity. All this you have helped to close down. I don't think that's gender equality.
i-92919def8f4ff654-708	Mr President, I would like to It is said that we entrepreneurs have the entrepreneurship, the desire for freedom and the curiosity in our DNA. Sometimes we are portrayed as a foreign race from the world of fairy tales, which together with our unicorns will create prosperity and growth out of thin air. Nothing could be more wrong. Behind every job-creating company stands a proud meat and blood entrepreneur – a person who, like me, has taken the first step towards self-realization, self-sufficiency and added value for his employees. We entrepreneurs are not born. We will grow if our soil is nutritious. When I created my first company in 2008, I did so in an environment and in a political business climate that was waved by faith in the future and optimism. Liberal pressure swept over the country with reforms that created jobs and jobs in real businesses run by real entrepreneurs. There were no new emergency services with useless internships in the public sector or, for that matter, the appointment of a dozen or so pampers that grey-melted industrial chancellors from the DDR era. No, ladies and gentlemen, I am talking about real entrepreneurs. Mr President, I would like to Liberals want it to be simple, rewarding and profitable to run a business. For us liberals, entrepreneurship is both an expression of the individual's ability to realize his or her dreams and a prerequisite for our common society. It is through the ability of companies to grow that jobs are created. More jobs in growing companies mean new life opportunities for individuals, reduced exclusion and, by extension, increased tax revenues, which in turn finances our common welfare. The freedom of the individual, the free enterprise and the good business environment are what build the strong society. During the time of the Liberals and the Alliance in power, mine and many other companies sprouted. We pushed for a better business environment in the form of reduced corporate tax, which gave a better investment climate. The RUT and ROT deductions did so-called black jobs white and created space for more companies to grow and develop. The regulatory burden was reduced, inter alia, by abolishing audit obligations for small companies and simplifying accounting rules. It may be difficult to understand for those who have gone straight from the Youth League through the post of Ombudsman in an organisation to the Committee on Economic Affairs of the Swedish Parliament, but that does not make the truth less accurate. The reality is that four out of five new jobs are created in SMEs. If they don't enjoy our economic policy soil, the future of our country will be dark. Mr President, I would like to Another reality is possible. I have seen it from the workshop floor at Saab Automotives, from my business where I opened the door for young people who have taken the step into the labour market and from this hall, where I have seen the alternative to the policy of Liberals and Alliance parties. It is a policy which, unfortunately, I will not see realised in the near future. On 25 November this year, another step was taken away from jobs, entrepreneurship and growth. At the time, the Riksdag decided on a framework for the state budget's expenditure areas according to the Government's proposal. This is a sad development for Sweden and for our nourishing companies. But that is the reality that the parliamentary elections left us with. At this point, we Liberals must assume our responsibilities and in this troubled time do not create further uncertainty for the country's entrepreneurs. As an entrepreneur, I know that this uncertainty is the most paralysing of all emotions. I do not want uncertainty about the budgetary process to be added to the list of uncertainties raised by the Government of Uncertainty alongside closed bridges, stopping ultimatums for the business aviation industry and punitive taxation of our job creators. Our proposal for how to steer the country in the right direction is to look at it as a whole, a comprehensive and balanced draft budget. The majority of the determined expenditure areas of the Government's budget proposal are not in line with the proposal advocated by the Liberals. We see a value in holding the budget process together and thus avoiding individual break-outs. I therefore choose not to take part in the decision on the allocation of appropriations in the field of expenditure. Having said that, I would like to make the position of the Liberals clear and clear in a specific opinion. It is our liberal belief that the state cannot create jobs and businesses, but well the conditions for a good business climate. The starting point for our policy is that it should pay off to run a business and take risks. But then the conditions for the country's companies must be adapted to the challenges that entrepreneurs face in the wake of globalisation, urbanisation and digitalisation. It is strong companies that have built Sweden strong. And all the big companies have once been small. By giving small businesses better opportunities to realise their dreams, they can grow strong. We are therefore questioning the government's so-called active industrial policy, which essentially involves hiding additional tax chandeliers in the corridors of state authorities. How these millions will benefit companies is unclear. The work of innovation systems does not create jobs. This makes the country's entrepreneurs, and they need less, no more political and public interference. Instead, bet on the money where they are useful in digital channels like Aktivt.se that deliver concrete results and make it easier for many companies! Invest in creative investment solutions, not on another industrial chancellor! We already have four too many.
i-92919def8f4ff654-720	Mr President, I would like to New times require new thinking. Of course, if you think as you have always done, you get the results you have always had, it is said. That is a little bit the case with the Social Democratic and Environmental Party government that we received after the elections last year. It is true that there is new cooperation. After all, they also call themselves the cooperation government. But a collaboration without previous calls rarely gets long, or at least it hacks a little along the way. And preparations for this government have not been very good. Nutrition policy must basically be about getting more companies. But we also need to get existing companies to grow and hire more. Then, of course, it is a question of having competitive taxes. We must be able to strengthen the export opportunities of Swedish companies on the global market in order to obtain the revenue needed for the public welfare system we have in Sweden. That is why it is of course worrying when you resort to old methods and ideas to solve things that did not work before. Why would trainee jobs work just because they are called an English expression? They used to be called something completely different, standby or anything. At least it is a labour market measure. We can also look at the results from Arbetsförmedlingen. The other week it became clear that there had been a single one all over Sweden, or something similar. Trainee jobs are usually sought after. This is the case when they are created in companies that see opportunities to use labour at any age – young, middle-aged, older – and use people's skills for work directly to train them in the existing workplace. We must have a business policy that makes it easier for companies to provide work training, training and jobs, otherwise we will not get anywhere in this country. Then we must also – all of us regardless of party – realise that we need to think new. The service sector is and remains something we have become accustomed to. We're going more. We have more experience of buying services from elsewhere than we had only ten years ago in this country. The deterioration of the RUT and ROT deductions that the government intends to make after the end of the year is simply a measure that I think no one really understands. Could anyone step up in this speaker's chair and tell me how it is thought that jobs will increase if you lower the RUT and ROT deductions? I'd like some answers. According to the most recent survey that I have at hand, 12% of those who have been asked whether they think that the RUT and ROT deductions should be reduced j a. According to the survey, one in five Social Democrats thinks this is a good thing. But the most interesting thing is that the rest think the deductions are good. Then I wonder where you have such support for your ideas that you even come up with this proposal in the budget. There are around 20 000 people working in the RUT industry today. If we keep the RUT deduction as it stands today and expand it with a few more services, it could, according to estimates from the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, add 16 000 new jobs by 2020. In other words, a lot of companies would start all over Sweden. You're not supposed to throw 16 000 new jobs in the lake and say they don't mean anything? I would like an answer on where to get 16 000 jobs from. That's what we have to measure against. I would be very happy if we found new industries and new products to produce and that led to 16 000 people becoming employed. But now we have a working system. We have the opportunity to make entrepreneurs feel confident about the future and keep the companies they have. We have the opportunity to strengthen female entrepreneurship and get people with foreign background to come in with a foothold in the labour market. Should we then reduce the amount of deductions and reduce the opportunities for people to buy the services? Then we will also reduce the ability of companies to hire and survive. Mr President, I would like to To contribute to new thinking on the part of the Christian Democrats, we want to reduce VAT for simple services such as bicycle repairs, shoe making, laundry services and tailoring to give a little stimulus to the so-called simple jobs, which in my world are quite difficult jobs. I think that we should respect the professionalism of those professions. If we can reduce VAT so that more people get jobs, I think it is very much worth it. In order not to be so narrow in our thinking, we have said that laundry services, perhaps hairdressing services, simple real estate services and so on could be additional opportunities to enter the RUT system, or we are lowering VAT on it anyway. We need to think again and help each other so that we get another 100 000 people to work. And you know what? I'm not talking about new Swedes in the first place. I'm talking about people with disabilities in general. A quarter of those looking for work today have some form of disability. We need to help each other in order for those people to find opportunities for work, whether they have a foreign background or not. That is something I, as a Christian Democrat, want to work for.
i-92919def8f4ff654-732	Mr President, I would like to Jobs and growth are crucial for what well-being we can afford, what investments we can make in school, health care and care, and what ambition we can have for our security systems and everything else that is close to our heart. It is therefore gratifying that we now have a government that so clearly prioritises jobs and that invests in building up barriers to growth. Capital and skills are likely to be the two single most important growth factors. We have seen significant shortcomings here for a long time. It has become more and more difficult to finance new ideas, goods and services, both in the early stages and in the development phases – not because there is a shortage of capital, but because the incentives have been wrong and unclear. It is therefore to be welcomed that the Government has now carried out an investigation into state venture capital and that it intends to come back to Parliament with suggestions on how it can be better designed to meet the needs that exist. It will function as a complement to the market and to a greater extent target early stages and development phases. The possibility of adding some kind of loan guarantee should also be reviewed. Bank loans continue to be the form of financing that many entrepreneurs are calling for in the first place. In other words, government venture capital should work and act as a lubricant in the system for most and the best possible benefit for entrepreneurship and growth. Also in terms of skills supply, the government delivers. In a situation where unemployment is high while the number of job vacancies is more than ever, it becomes clear that the policy of the previous bourgeois government has not worked and that investment in knowledge and matching is necessary for employers to be able to employ the skills they need. Therefore, the government is now investing heavily in a new knowledge lift with a powerful expansion of the university, university of applied sciences and folkhögskolan, as well as of komvux and yrkesvux. In total, nearly 44,000 new training places will be added in 2016. But that's not enough. People must also be able to get to where jobs and education are, and they must be able to live there. Therefore, investment in infrastructure and housing is also necessary. In total, the government will invest 5.5 billion in the housing sector next year, which is the largest investment in housing policy in the last 20 years. In order for trains to run on time and companies' transports to arrive, there is a 20% increase in rail maintenance. These are smart investments for jobs and growth here and now that also builds Sweden strong for the future. Mr President, I would like to We Social Democrats believe in an active industrial policy. We see that investments in collaboration, innovation, research, export and adaptability are crucial for future jobs and growth. We have accordingly delivered in a number of areas. The Prime Minister has appointed an Innovation Council. We are working on developing models for efficient innovation procurement. We propose initiatives in strategic development areas such as life science and climate. We create the conditions for demo facilities and pilot projects on a large scale. These are just a few examples. We also take a look at export issues and deliver a new export strategy with the aim of helping SMEs in particular out in more and growing emerging markets. This means that we increase our presence in strategically important markets, but it is also an investment in regional export advisors. Trade and exports are crucial factors for jobs and growth. We believe in the future of industry. Industry is not only the basis for our present prosperity and for most of our exports. It is also one of the keys to future growth, not only through the jobs, export revenues and investments it represents, but also through its importance for business renewal and development. The production and demand of highly qualified services in industry is an important explanation of Sweden's position high up in the global value chains. It's a position worth defending. Tomorrow's industry, however, will look different. Products, services and market models interact in increasingly complex symbiosis. Globalisation and digitalisation create new conditions and opportunities – if we take advantage of them, if we work together and if we are at the forefront. The government's announced new industrialisation strategy is therefore a step in the right direction. Mr President, I would like to SMEs are playing an increasingly important role. Much of the work and growth is already taking place there. New statistics show that the number of enterprise openings rose by 16 per cent in November this year compared with 2014. Over the same period, the number of bankruptcies decreased. This is gratifying, but it also means that we must continue to be concerned about monitoring and monitoring the conditions for entrepreneurship. A security system and parental insurance, both better adapted to the conditions of entrepreneurship and continuing work on regulatory simplification, are examples of issues that must remain a priority. Mr President, I would like to I note that we do not solve either the matching problems in the labour market, the lack of housing, the conditions for companies or the skills requirements of the future with cuts or short-term tax cuts. We have tested this with poor results. Instead, investment is now needed – in knowledge, in innovation, in infrastructure, in housing, in exports and in adaptability. With this, I call for the proposal in the report to be approved.
i-92919def8f4ff654-749	Mr President, I would like to If we raise our eyes, we see that Sweden is facing a number of major challenges in the future. We have the new exclusion, which is clearly striking at young people born abroad in particular. We have increasing international competition. It is nothing new that Swedish industry and other companies face this, but it is increasingly fierce international competition. These are a number of fairly large and increasing challenges for Sweden. Then me and the Moderates think it's important to build ability here at home. The conditions for companies and enterprising people determine whether we are going to cope with this fierce competition. We can then see, Mr President, that Jennie Nilsson and the Social Democrats have a budget that involves tax increases in the 150 billion class. You want a truck tax. The tax on hiring young people has been increased in the past. The line has consistently been taken to make it both more expensive to hire older people and less profitable for older people to remain in the labour market despite the demographic challenges facing Sweden. We can highlight other areas such as the surplus target, which the Finance Minister promised would remain, but six months after the elections began to twirl. We have the energy supply, which is being put at risk. We have the whole transport policy of air taxes, truck taxes and the work of closing Bromma airport. The list can be made longer, but this clearly strikes companies and enterprising people. That is why, Mr President, I would like to ask Jennie Nilsson how she feels that all these tax increases, transport degradations and uncertainties that the government exposes to the Swedish economy lead to more jobs and growing companies.
i-92919def8f4ff654-754	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking, Lars Helmered! I can only say that we do very different analyses of what builds Sweden strongly for the future. We currently have the opportunity to evaluate the effect of eight years of bourgeois rule. I can only say that much of what Lars Helmered describes – including the new exclusion, which is well-reasonably an effect of the new Moderates – are things that have failed to deal with a unilateral tax-merger policy. I am convinced that the efforts made by this government are right. Instead of unfunded tax cuts, efforts are being made to remove growth barriers. Virtually all assessors say that the two things that are absolutely most important for growth and development in Sweden are skills supply and capital supply. This is also where the government delivers a great deal, not least when it comes to skills provision. A situation of high unemployment, while there are more job vacancies than ever before, is not the result of a successful policy. This is the result that Lars Helmered's government left behind.
i-92919def8f4ff654-758	Mr President, I would like to I'll be honest and look forward, because I think we should. Then the new exclusion is one of Sweden's major challenges. In recent years it has been created in the order of 300 000 new jobs in Sweden. It is absolutely fantastic compared to other European countries. However, it should also be said that it is insufficient to meet the major challenges facing especially young people who have little or no experience and foreign born who come here. If you combine this, i.e. if you are born abroad and come here without any education, you have it very difficult. We must continue to face this in different ways, especially now that it is accentuated by the fact that many people are seeking Sweden. This is a challenge that is clearly ahead of us. Both in this and for business as a whole, we have a government that makes business more difficult and costly. To make sense of the debate, Mr President, one can look at what Jennie Nilsson, Stefan Löfven and the Social Democrats say about active economic policy. They go around knocking on doors at companies and say this: There's so much we're raising taxes for you. At the same time, we give back a crown. And Jennie Nilsson says to all the country's entrepreneurs, "We'll take a fifty of you. We'll give you a crown. This is how net the tax policy of the Social Democrats looks, just so that we are clear about what we are talking about. It brings us back to fierce international competition. It is about whether large industries and smaller companies that grow to cope with international competition, then one must be strong in Sweden in order to be able to compete with both Swedish competitors and companies in other parts of the world. The government's hand is: We take fifty notes, and we give the crown. I do not believe that this will benefit Sweden in the long term. There is another choice we should make, among other things in order to be able to push back the new alienation.
i-92919def8f4ff654-766	Mr President, I would like to I also call for manners in the debate. It is almost preposterous to do as Lars Hjälmered currently does. He tries to say that only what is in the field of industrial expenditure, which we are debating here, is the government's industrial policy, while everything that he and his own party represent can be picked from all other areas of expenditure. If you make relevant and equivalent comparisons, you can see that we take and give different ones based on that we give different priorities. I share Lars Helmered's view that we live in a globalised world, where it is increasingly important that we have strong competitive advantages for Swedish companies and Swedish industry. I do not believe, however, that criticismd, ineffective and, moreover, unfunded tax cuts are the best thing to face up to competition. I think it's about technology development, innovation development and world-class research. What is important is that we have trained staff, that we have a school that works, that the skills that the employer demands exist, that there is access to capital at the right stages and so on. You talk about what we do at home. It is absolutely right that what we do at home, which strengthens the conditions at home, is also important. For example, it is important that trains and infrastructure work and that the housing market works. Therefore, the government makes major priorities for you to be able to live, move, have a working transition and have a working education. That's our option. That's how they should be put together. Everything else, Lars Helmered, is unserious.
i-92919def8f4ff654-771	Mr President, I would like to Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson recently attended the Gasellgala of Today's Industry. There she called the RUT deduction cost-effective. In short, what she means is that the deduction creates so many jobs that it is a good investment. It should be set against the same Magdalena Andersson before she got the Finance Minister's hat on her head actually wanted to halve the RUT deduction so that the families at Solsidan, Djursholm and Danderyd can not continue to deduct for full-time domestics. The Minister of Finance implicitly believes that the RUT deduction would be some kind of subsidy to reduce the cost of full-time domestic staff to individual wealthy people. The image of RUT usage doesn't really look like that. We know that. Magdalena Andersson obviously knows that too now. The thousands of companies that have been set up in this area have given women economic power. Among the employees, women are also in the majority. Three out of four employees in the industry come from unemployment. I have a question for Jennie Nilsson. Since Magdalena Andersson now thinks that RUT is a socially effective service, I wonder if you will now remedy the deterioration that you have done in this area.
i-92919def8f4ff654-776	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Helena Lindahl, for the question! I wasn't at the Gasell Gala. I cannot therefore comment on what Magdalena Andersson said. On the other hand, I can see that neither RUT nor ROT in its present form nor in an enlarged form builds competitiveness. There may be absolute reasons for subsidising certain sectors. It can be economic reasons, introductions or other things. This has been done when it comes to ROT over time. It has acted as a brake on the economy. You could imagine that you also handle RUT. In some sense, that is exactly what we have done in the agreement that the government has made with all the alliance parties. It includes it as a form of economic and temporary measure. I think that's reasonable. But it is not reasonable to say, as Helena Lindahl and the Center Party do, that this is an issue that is crucial, for example, for female labour force participation, immigrant participation or, for that matter, female entrepreneurship. To state that this can only be done effectively if you are referred to being in an area where there is a low willingness to pay – that is why we subsidise these services – or a low acceptance that big profits are made becomes very strange. I hope and wish that Helena Lindahl and the Center Party can rise to have a discussion on the issues based on the right conditions. I think that these debates very often make it very easy.
i-92919def8f4ff654-780	Mr President, I would like to If Jennie Nilsson believes that the right conditions are the praises that the Social Democrats want to bring out, I can say that I may not be part of that homage. Jennie Nilsson might be right about that. As far as this is concerned, I am actually very concerned about this, because it has created a lot of jobs for women. There's a lot of statistics on that. In addition, it has given women economic power and the opportunity to become business leaders – many new companies have been set up. What perhaps saddens me most is that Jennie Nilsson mentions that this is some kind of subsidy, just as it would only be a money that the state has given out to be kind to a particular group. This has actually embarrassed society a lot. If even Magdalena Andersson has now changed his mind and says that it is socially effective, it means that it generates jobs. It does not cost the state anything, because many people get into work, which means that people pay taxes. It will also be an income for the state. We already know that. We are facing societal challenges. We have almost no easy jobs to offer the new Swedes who do not have any training. What are we gonna do with those people? Instead of hijacking the RUT, you might want to expand the RUT. Then I would like to come to my question: what plans does the feminist government have to develop women's entrepreneurship? I wonder, given that RUT isn't one of those things. You have also, as I mentioned earlier, put down the investment in women's ambassadorship, Board power via Almi and now also Winnet, which gives non-profit organisations around Sweden the opportunity to work with gender equality and entrepreneurship.
i-92919def8f4ff654-786	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I can see that many of the projects mentioned by Helena Lindahl – it is about female ambassadorship and female board participation – were projects that ended last year. They were not even included in the Center Party budget, either for last year or for this year. It is likely that it was projects that expired. I think it has been very good projects. I do not rule out making new projects on the same theme in order to raise the level of knowledge, to develop mentors, to highlight good examples, to inspire and so on. I think these are good measures. But I also believe that this should be carried out in project form. As far as Winnet is concerned, the government does not reduce the Swedish Agency for Growth, as opposed to the Moderates, for example, who are making a reduction of 120 million at the Swedish Agency for Growth. I don't remember what the Center Party is putting there. But if I am not mistaken, you will also deduct the administrative grant for the authorities handling these subsidies – to Winnet, to IFS, to Coompanion and so on. The change that is now being made to Winnet is within the framework that it is the Swedish Agency for Growth that administers the money you get. On the same mission, a different approach has been chosen, to place it on the regions, according to the information I have received. We will follow these developments and, of course, follow their impact. But it is not the case that we have cut back on money in this area. Finally, I would like to recommend Helena Lindahl to read SCB's latest statistics, which show that it is going very well, despite all the warnings from the Alliance's representatives about the changes that we are making in the tax area and so on to invest instead in school and investment. ( First VICE TALMAN: Time is up. ) Unemployment is now down to 6.7 percent, which is less than it was in virtually all of your period.
i-92919def8f4ff654-792	Excuse me, but the line time is set at two minutes. It's good to stop talking when the clock shows in two minutes. Right, Jennie Nilsson? ( Jennie Nilsson ( S). I apologise, Mr President. )
i-92919def8f4ff654-794	Mr President, I would like to The bourgeois parties once beat themselves to the chest because they are the best friends of business and entrepreneurship. However, when you read this budget, particularly Category 24 Business, which we are now debating, a different picture emerges. Bourgeois parties claim that it is taxes that are crucial if there are more companies. I would say that advice and venture capital that dare to invest in new ideas and companies are just as important, perhaps even more important. Above all, this advice and capital will generate as many ideas as possible so that many can try to start a business and so that we can bring forward the cutting edge of the future in Sweden. In this budget, the difference between the right and left of the policy is very clear, that is to say, what confidence is placed in government efforts to support the positive development of business. The table in the report shows that the Christian Democrats want to reduce the grant by SEK 667 million, the Liberals by 623, the Center Party by 557, the Moderates by 497 and the Swedish Democrats by SEK 204 million – all of this for 2016. The years 2017 – 2019 continue in a similar style and at the same level. Compare this with the cuts the bourgeois wanted to make in last year's budget, which was 62 million crowns. So these reductions have now been tenfold compared to our proposal. Five parties want to cut innovation research, four parties want to cut the investment in industrial development, four parties want to cut export investment and three parties want to cut the investment in tourism. I wonder: Is this really a business-friendly policy? Would it really lead to increased entrepreneurship and any of the bourgeois budgets go through? I'm very doubtful. Instead, I am proud to represent the budget negotiated by the Left Party with the government. It is a budget that invests in new industrialisation, exports, entrepreneurship and tourism. These are initiatives aimed at both large and small businesses, and these are initiatives aimed at both existing entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs of tomorrow. In working to strengthen Sweden's competitiveness, I believe that Almi has a key role to play in supporting, advising and lending people to start-ups. It is particularly gratifying that Almis activities lend to a large extent both to women and to people with foreign backgrounds as well as to young people. These are groups that are otherwise at risk of being discriminated against in the loan market. When Almi lends out, we also see that the banks dare to raise funds because their risks are reduced. This budget also proposes changes in the way state venture capital is organised. One conclusion can be drawn from the fact that there are now many state actors and that there are little opportunities for governance or new initiatives. Therefore, as proposed in the budget proposal, merging and reducing the number of players is, I believe, the right way to go. However, we still need to monitor the regional perspective so that state venture capital contributes to regional growth throughout Sweden. The debate will continue in the spring when the government presents its proposal to us in the Committee on Economic Affairs. Mr President, I would like to For the Left Party, the work for full employment is central. However, the question is where to develop the new jobs of the future and how to build the welfare and prosperity of the future in a globalised economy. It is the Left Party's conviction that it is not through lower wages and poorer conditions in the labour market that future jobs are created in Sweden. Instead, we want our country to develop through innovations and innovation that are translated into new products or services. Then Sweden can stand strong, reach the goal of full employment and develop into a knowledge-driven nation. The Left Party is a nutritionally positive party that wants to change Sweden against the challenges of the future in order to maintain and strengthen our competitiveness. I think it is important to increase access to finance for innovative SMEs, because in the long term it will lead to increased development and growth for Sweden. I therefore support the proposal in the report.
i-92919def8f4ff654-804	Mr President, I would like to An important aspect of economic policy is trade policy. Sweden is a trade-dependent country. About half of the Swedish economy is linked to trade, i.e. imports and exports. Historically, trade has built Swedish prosperity, and we can say that it will continue to be important. The Swedish market is rarely enough for Swedish companies. Either directly or fairly quickly, they need to go somewhere else to get sales for their products. A crucial issue for Sweden is to get a trade agreement between Europe and the US in place. Those who are inside this sometimes call it TTIP. In practice, it is about the two largest economies in the world. So what does the Left Party think? Well, the Chairman of the Left Party wrote on Twitter in connection with the Saudi scandal that he thinks you should stop TTIP. When there was a discussion on the mandate of the European Commission, which is negotiating on behalf of Sweden, the Left Party voted against. It did not want the Commission to negotiate a trade agreement. There are also motions that the Riksdag and the Committee on Economic Affairs will deal with later where the Left Party wants to stop the negotiation of a trade agreement between Europe and the United States. Mr President, I would like to What does this mean in splendor? I am Gothenburg, and Gothenburg is Volvo's hometown. Among other things, cars are built there. Volvo Cars are currently developing two cars, one car for the European market and a completely different car for the North American market. If we get a good trade agreement in place, this means that Volvo can develop a car model that works in both markets. It saves money, making it cheaper for Volvo to develop new car products. Jobs can be secured. Mr President, I would like to Why does Håkan Svenneling not want to be involved in safe car builder and car developer jobs in Gothenburg?
i-MAbyHUpXjsVbKW9q6edmWe	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Lars Helmered, for the question! The issue of the TTIP agreement is hot, and I would say that the debate we have in Sweden is not similar to other debates in Europe. It is a narrow and narrow sector for what one may think and what views are expressed on the TTIP agreement. This means that I hope that we can continue with a broad debate on TTIP. I know that we will return to TTIP in the spring. Lars Hjälmered is trying to make it sound like the Left Party would like to stop trade a little in the world and, above all, between the EU and the US. I would say that we are rather a party that dares to invest in exports and supports the efforts we are making with the government. We point to the importance of exporting. I myself am committed to the question of how Sweden can act in a simpler way with Norway, which is actually our most important trading partner. As an example of why we should conclude a trade agreement, Lars Helmered believes that the car is a good example. However, I say that this is an example of why we should not conclude a trade agreement in the way proposed between the EU and the US. The risk is that we are deteriorating for people and the environment. The example shows that it was thought that it would be easy to introduce American crash tests in Europe or vice versa so that the cars do not need to be tested twice. But it has turned out that the American crash test is much more uncertain than the European ones. The European tests are – I take it from my head – three to four times better. The Americans drive a car into the side while Europeans crash right into a wall. As a whole, however, it is concluded that European security is higher. What does it mean if you say that it is perfectly okay for car companies not to make agreements for both consequences? This means that our goal of achieving a zero vision of traffic is considerably further away than it is today.
i-92919def8f4ff654-814	Mr President, I would like to What we are talking about is that Europe and the United States are the two largest economies in the world. If we get a good trade agreement in place, it means growth and new jobs in Sweden, in other parts of Europe and in the United States. This also means that the type of standard set in such a trade agreement can model other trade agreements with other parts of the world. Often there may be imbalances. The EU is a big one, and the country with which it is negotiating is small. In this case, there are two equal parties. Let's look at the example of the car. Different demands are made. A number of questions need to be clarified. The bottom line is that a number of us follow the Swedish tradition of standing up for trade, for free trade and for the opportunity to trade more. What the Left Party is proposing, which the Riksdag and the Committee on Economic Affairs are to deal with, is not to have a trade agreement with the United States, although we know that Sweden is one of the most important countries that invests in the United States. We have a lot of companies that shop in that market. When the Left Party now says no to this type of trade agreement, it beats the car builder and car developer jobs in Gothenburg, as it can hit many other companies around the country. This is a concrete issue that clearly determines whether we are going to meet the major challenge of increasing international competition. I ask again: Why does the Left Party not want to protect important industrial jobs in Sweden by getting in place a large, broad and good trade agreement with the United States?
i-92919def8f4ff654-818	Mr President, I would like to Lars Hjälmered wants the TTIP agreement to prevail as standard for other trade agreements in the world. It's very hard to see that that would be the case. It is rather the case that we see other trade agreements that have been negotiated that are now in danger of getting the value of standard TTIP or other trade agreements that affect the EU. I believe that instead of keeping on swinging together the two major economies of Euro pa and the United States, we need to create a different system of trade, including everyone and creating free and fair trade conditions for everyone all over the world. That is why I very much hope that the WTO negotiations will be able to bring us closer to fair trade. It is good that we are getting free trade, but it must also be fair so that different parties have the same opportunities. Lars Helmered is trying to give the impression that we do not want a trade agreement with the United States. I just want to say very clearly to Lars: we would very much like to have a trade agreement with the United States. However, we do not want TTIP. There is a difference, because we see that TTIP puts the interests of big business first. TTIP risks human health and the environment. This can mean that we have worse health and less environment, and we do not want to be involved in risking that. One cannot sit at COP 21 in Paris and negotiate environmental and climate agreements while at the other end there are trade agreements that may impair the environment. We want to see a whole. We want to see simple problems solved between the EU and the US, addressing these problems and fixing them so that we can reduce tariffs between the EU and the US and increase trade. If you find conditions that don't match each other, we're really open because you solve them. But if you do this and let big companies get a double lock on future legislation by both being able to influence the legislation before it is on our way here in Parliament and then being able to sue us as a state when we have a new law, we think that is the wrong way to go for trade policy.
i-92919def8f4ff654-824	Mr President, I would like to I like Håkan Svenneling in some way, not just because he's a warming country like me. But he's a rather unusual left-wing partyist, you might say. I don't think I've ever heard any left-wing party here say that the Left Party is a nutritionally positive party. I think it needs to be added to the Minutes, Mr President, so that we have not only the spoken word but also the written one, because that is something we have not experienced in politics in the past. It could still be important in this House if that were the case. When Håkan Svenneling says in his speech that there are differences in the confidence in government efforts between opposition, government parties and obviously the Left Party, it can feel a little the opposite here. Since in my own speech I am looking for innovation, I will have to appoint Svenneling as the most innovative thinking here in the debate. However, there is still no response from the Left Party representative to what is to happen to RUT companies. If there are forecasts that we could expand from 20 000 jobs to 36 000 jobs in just a few years and the Left Party says no to this, how is it supposed that these extra 16 000 jobs will come to? In addition to this, we must also expect thousands of jobs to disappear if the RUT deduction is reduced.
i-92919def8f4ff654-827	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your praise, Penilla! You should see what new ideas Birger Lahti and I have in the drawer! We will have an exciting time in the Industry Committee. With regard to state intervention and how to look at those opportunities, I dare say that the state is an important player in the creation of new entrepreneurs. Nevertheless, as a left-wing party, I think it is necessary to agree to say that the efforts we have seen to stimulate start-ups, for example among school pupils, entrepreneurship and so on, have taken advantage of a generation that I think is more innovative and creative than previous generations. We also see how more young people who do not come from small business families and the like are prepared to invest in becoming entrepreneurs. It is something that I think is very positive and that should be highlighted. We in the Left Party have been very clear that we have never thought that the RUT deduction is a good idea. We do not think that the tax revenue we collect for the state should be distributed through deductions to different companies, but should go to investments in general welfare for all. That is why we think it is important to tackle the running costs we see for both RUT and ROT, bring them into the state and instead convert them into welfare efforts that reach everyone. That is why we are clear that we do not think the RUT deduction is good. In this budget, we have accepted certain levels of RUT by getting it down and getting other welfare efforts through. That's what happens when you negotiate with the government. We are an opposition party, but we are very clear that we are cooperating with the government. We want to see that this government and its budget, which we support, will go through because we think it will lead to a better Sweden. To be clear, however, I would like to say that we do not believe that an effort on and an extension of the RUT is the right way to go. I am not sure that the forecasts are correct, and above all I am quite sure that this does not help to strengthen Swedish competitiveness.
i-92919def8f4ff654-833	Mr President, I would like to I still have no answer from Håkan Svenneling to my question: If you say no to 16 000 new jobs, where will they be found if not in this area? I and all of us here, I think, are gratefully receiving new proposals that can come on the labour market as a whole, because we really need to help each other in this area in order to get people into work so that you can just make the welfare efforts that Håkan Svenneling seeks. Like me, he wants a functioning welfare system in Sweden. The Left Party has also been a known opponent of welfare companies run by women. So we want to reduce women's entrepreneurship in particular. We can talk about care for the elderly, we can talk about care for the disabled, we can talk about any form of care that can be run in companies, so the Left Party has been against it. This brings me to the same point that my colleague from the Center Party has been talking about, namely Winnet. We heard the chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs say that nothing is being cut, but the money is being spent only at regional level. Now Winnet himself says they have no idea. Then you can ask yourself who has the right answer. Is the Left Party asking whether it is important for women to receive support and help in setting up and running businesses? It also applies, and not least, that Winnet also drives the gender equality issue in different contexts, which I think both Håkan Svenneling and I are interested in getting better at.
i-92919def8f4ff654-837	Mr President, I would like to I want to start where Penilla Gunther ends. It is important to remember that we are an opposition party. It is important to remember that we are a cooperation party to the government on budgetary issues. This does not mean that the Left Party has the opportunity to post regulatory letters to authorities or point out the direction of what authorities should decide or not. The government does, and when, for example, an authority such as the Swedish Agency for Growth makes a decision about Winnet or Welcome Sweden, I am as surprised as Penilla Gunther that you put down good investments. Then I step as much as she does into my opposition role here and will criticize it. However, we in the Left Party are clear about what we want in our negotiations. We want a well-being that can be trusted. We are not critical of any companies, but we are critical of profiting from our welfare. We are seeing today how venture capitalists have made themselves rich on it and how to take huge profits out of our welfare. We want to ensure that this money goes to what it is intended for, that is, to people who work in elderly care, in home care or in school so that we get a better welfare – a well-being that you can trust. This means that I will not say no to any 16 000 jobs. I'm just saying that we should invest in sectors that strengthen Swedish competitiveness and in a well-being that can be trusted. I believe, for example, that the Left Party's commitment to increased staffing in elderly care is a very important initiative in order for more people to feel safe, comfortable in the retirement home and feel seen. Therefore, I think it is important that we not only send out money but have no idea what job effects they have, but instead have good government governance that actually gives results in jobs. Many of the jobs created during the time of the bourgeois government were very expensive. It usually cost more than it would cost to employ directly within the state welfare or in the municipality.
i-92919def8f4ff654-843	Mr President, I would like to Yes, here we are again, Håkan Svenneling! I'd like to talk some tourism with you. Swedish tourism is going really well. In 2014 we had a turnover of SEK 268 billion, I have read on Visita's website. We are also a very export-dependent country. Since 2000, total exports have increased by 66 per cent, but the corresponding increase for tourism, i.e. foreign visitors' consumption in Sweden, is 138 per cent. Many get their first job in this business, and there are also many young people who work there. The problem now looming is that the government imposes double social security contributions on young people. It will hit this industry hard. We know that the margins are very small, and this cold shower will not make things any better. Services exports are currently growing considerably faster than goods exports. At the same time, we know that global tourism will increase by just over 60% by 2030. Then my question to Håkan Svenneling is: Is it really wise to double the employers' fees for young people when we know that the tourism industry is so dependent on young people and many young people also get their first job in this industry?
i-92919def8f4ff654-847	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Helena Lindahl, for the question! For me, this reduction in the social security contribution for young people is very clear. It was introduced by the bourgeois government when I was young and new in the labour market. I just got my first job. In retrospect, it has been calculated that this was an inefficient initiative, and I can see clearly why. It is not aimed at young people who are part of the labour market, but at all those who are of the right age to receive a reduction in employers' contributions. For my part, I had just got my first real job, a job for the time being. I signed the contract. That was a month or two. Then came a letter to my employer saying: How nice that you have hired Håkan Svenneling! This means that you will now receive a reduced employer's contribution. The employer's contribution was not halved from the beginning, but there was then another letter saying that it had been reduced a little further. This shows how inefficient the reform is. I already had a job. It was already clear that I would work until further notice, as long as there was money in the project – for seven years, it would turn out, until I stepped in here – but still I was eligible for support. Instead, I want to see in my policy that this is aimed at the young people who are furthest away from the labour market. I want the state to think about and see those young people who today find it difficult to establish themselves, so that they can receive support, training and investment that will enable them to become employed only. Unfortunately, I do not think that a reduced employer's contribution for young people does. However, I agree with Helena Lindahl's argument that tourism is an important industry for young people, and we must see it. I think that there is a rather broad consensus in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy when it comes to the fact that the tourism industry is something we want to highlight. We may think of different ways to do this, but we all want to lift it. We in the Left Party take it up in several motions and in the Parliamentary Committee on Rural Development, in which I sit.
i-92919def8f4ff654-852	Mr President, I would like to Thanks for the good answer, Håkan Svenneling! I do not really agree with youth unemployment contributions, because I can see it from another direction. I know that many young people find it difficult to assert themselves in the labour market, and that is no wonder. If you have no experience, it is really difficult to compete with someone who has lots of experience. Of course you'll be elected. Let's say you, Håkan, would have an excavator company and that you could choose between someone who doesn't have experience and comes directly from school and someone who has ten years of experience, and you are the sole entrepreneur. I'll bet you who you'd choose. In fact, it is. Very well. We know that the government will phase out Inland innovation, but we will work towards this until we lie down. I just want to let you know. Now I point to Håkan with the pen too. We also know that several areas in Sweden have unfortunately become without rural development money, Leader money, and I know that Håkan Svenneling knows that. Unfortunately, there are five areas out of a total of 52 that have been left out. They'll be out for about five or six years. These are projects started from grass-roots level, and some of this money has also gone to local tourism initiatives. What are the thoughts and ideas of the Left Party regarding the development of tourism in the rural areas concerned? It is precisely these areas that are specifically vulnerable that will also be affected by the reductions.
i-UDvQTKrBKHkfJB2CXq2tsj	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking, Helena Lindahl! There are many different parts in the tourism sector. We have an extra responsibility, just as Helena Lindahl says, for those parts where the economic wheels go a little slower. We see that tourism is an opportunity to develop those areas. Many of these areas have a very sensitive nature that we need to be careful about. Then it is good that there are both economic associations such as the Ecotourism Association, which organizes the companies and thinks about how to do it in a sustainable way, and interesting research and studies from, among other things, our neighbouring country Finland, which points to how important a state nature reserve is for entrepreneurs if you do it properly. We in Sweden must learn to be better at going through this balancing process. We will look at Finland and other countries to see how government efforts to protect and preserve the environment can be complemented by private efforts to increase the number of visitors. Then I think that Norrland inland and other parts of Sweden will live up to it better and can receive more tourists in a sustainable way. But then we also see other challenges that we have often discussed in this House. For example, the prerequisites for taking the train up to Jämtlandsfjällen are crucial for the companies there. What we need to create are sustainable entrepreneurs who have four seasons to sell their products and services. They cannot live on just one winter or summer season. There we have a political responsibility to help create the conditions for those companies to grow.
i-92919def8f4ff654-860	Mr President, I would like to Sweden's prosperity is built through openness and trade. At the same time, companies and jobs in Sweden are constantly challenged by entrepreneurs and innovations from all over the world. In order to ensure continued good conditions for entrepreneurship and to enable Swedish companies to compete in the global market, the conditions for entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship need to be continuously evaluated and improved. An ambitious policy for entrepreneurship, entrepreneurship and innovation is therefore a prerequisite for managing jobs and welfare. Mr President, I would like to It starts with innovations and continues with trade. And what is trade will give rise to tomorrow's innovations. We say that Sweden is an export-dependent country. Sweden is a trade-dependent country, because exports depend on imports, and therefore increased free trade in the world is absolutely a priority, because it develops competence across borders. Here, the patterns of the new era, with increased features of e-commerce, play a very important role. For Sweden and Europe, this is particularly important, as 80% of growth is now taking place outside Europe. We Moderates want negotiations on the TTIP, the free trade agreement with the United States, to continue so that the agreement can be concluded as soon as possible. It will be important for the welfare of the future in Sweden. We see a challenge in future trade with new markets opening up. Iran and Cuba are countries that will move more towards a market economy and open up to the world. There are many industries that have grown large in Sweden as a result of various freedom of choice reforms. There are companies whose services meet high demand abroad. A clear example of this is the demand for pre-school services in Germany, a country that is taking a big step forward in the development of childcare and preschool – it is a gender equality reform that is taking place in Germany – and that is why we in Sweden need to see welfare services as self-evident commodities, as obvious as iron ore and cars. All business starts locally. Therefore, export advisory services should also be locally and regionally available. There is much to do here, among other things by opening up that part of Business Sweden's business. Having public procurement of export advisory services is a reform that we moderates would like to see. There are many good companies around the country, small and medium-sized enterprises, who have practical practical experience and can share it with companies that want to go out into the world. We also have trade negotiations around the country that are ready. These are actors who could definitely enter the Swedish export advisory market and make a major contribution. In order to develop Sweden and develop our economy, we need to have a strategy to develop Swedish companies' opportunities for e-commerce. In this context, it is important for the EU Services Directive to be broadened with a view to developing the internal market as well. Then, among other things, Swedish welfare services will have the opportunity to reach out to the world. Mr President, I would like to Many talk about innovation and venture capital, but one wonders why no one is sniffing after the private money lying out there. In relation to its size, Sweden has a relatively large financial market, but we are talking about state venture capital. It was interesting to hear from the Left Party that we must have more state capital to go to private companies so that we can then tax them properly, loudly and much. It can be called rounding in its most left-wing sense. For the state, it is largely a question of removing barriers, acting where market failures occur and lubricating already functioning systems. In order for the outcome to be the best, it requires a bottom-up perspective focusing on the individual innovator's starting point. The needs vary, which means that one cannot have a specific approach to innovation policy and the supply of venture capital, but it must be adapted according to industry considerations, maturity, growth conditions and innovation. It therefore requires an individual bottom-up approach. The Swedish innovation model should be designed so that the entire system develops and becomes self-learning. Mr President, I would like to In order for new companies to be created and to grow, access to capital is central. In this respect, state funding interventions have an important market complementary role to play. There are already indications that state risk capital is evading private capital in later phases, and the existing state funds are in many ways overlapping in terms of objectives and mandates. Mr President, I would like to In the moderate budget, we want to invest in building future entrepreneurship from below. We want young people to be able to participate more in Young Entrepreneurship and to make a quality boost of Young Entrepreneurship's activities. We also want to invest resources at Drivhuset, which should be commissioned to establish presence and activities at the country's universities of applied sciences. In addition, we want to ensure that newcomers with a strong entrepreneurial spirit and a clear desire to become self-sufficient can receive support for this. Therefore, we want to spend resources on IFS, which is part of Almis's advice to entrepreneurs with a foreign background.
i-92919def8f4ff654-875	Mr President, I would like to I thought that Mr Rothenberg and I would save ourselves for the February debate on trade and should therefore not talk about it now. Instead, I would like to mention that Hans thinks he has understood how the Left Party model for development and growth works. I would like to supplement and develop it a little. He expresses concern that private operators will not join when the state develops its venture capital and invests it in various companies. I would say that it is exactly the opposite. When I meet Almi Invest and other government actors who want to invest in growing companies, they say that it is so good for them that there are private venture capital companies that they can find ways to and cooperate with. Let us take my county of Värmland as an example. The large private venture capital is mainly located in Stockholm, and then there is little in Gothenburg and also a little in other places. It takes a few hours of travel, and it is difficult to keep track of local businesses and markets. But when the state steps in and has a local office, such as Almi Invest in Karlstad, they can look at various projects, evaluate them and do analyses. When Almi Invest knows that a certain private venture capital company likes life science, they call the venture capital company and tell them which company they have found. Or Almi Invest knows that another private venture capital company likes engineering industries. They're good at developing them. They'll contact them. In this way, the state enables entrepreneurs to find the private venture capital company that is a bit away. I've seen it happen with my own eyes. It is about having local entrepreneurs and local venture capitalists but also about having the state close at hand. In this way you find friends a little further away who are involved in investing. I think that will give Sweden a good development.
i-92919def8f4ff654-879	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Håkan Svenneling, for the line! There is freedom of reply in this debate, but we have not noticed much of that in the past with regard to the government base, so thank you very much for the question! We do not really have different opinions here. Almi has a role to play. There are also other actors who play a role in venture capital and advice. Basically, there are many more actors who could be involved in the advisory process. We would like to open up to that, for example by having a procurement of advisory services. The fact that there are local advisors around the country is great. There's got to be. We need more of that. But it doesn't always have to be Almi on the door. It may say Almi, but there may also be another office nearby. There may be other entrepreneurs who may be associated with Almi or other actors. This should be the case, absolutely, and therefore it is important that there are more actors to be able to go to. I see Almi looking close. I also meet many entrepreneurs, who are sometimes very frustrated that they do not find the money. Once they find the money, they get no, and then they want to be able to go to someone else. We should be very careful when looking at the state venture capital system so that there are not too few players. If you've been turned down once, you won't come banging on the door again and ask if they can't change their mind. That is why we need to have a wide range of players. It is important that we work actively to develop the private venture capital base. It's out there. It is just as important to stimulate it to come forward as it is that we take our tax money and send it into companies. Then comes Håkan Svenneling and would like to tax them, because we should have a large tax base in order to be able to handle the government's and Left Party's budget initiatives.
i-92919def8f4ff654-884	Mr President, I would like to I can say that I agree with Mr Rothenberg on most of it. I think he has a lot of good thoughts and is on the right track in some parts. I myself have worked for a long time with rural development and EU support and have seen how important it is that there are different actors and that they can interact with each other, but also to get government governance in a good way. The problem right now is probably not that we have too few players that you can't find, but the problem is that we have a plethora of players who are pulling in a little different directions and have some different regulations to relate to. I would like to have it a little cleaner, a little straighter and with a little better control on the whole. What we are in now is that Europe interferes with certain things but not with others, that the state is involved in other parts and that there is sometimes some region with it. This makes it a bit resourceful for the entrepreneurs who want to come forward. I therefore hope that we will think about it and think about it in the best way so that entrepreneurs can get support for their ideas and we can get private venture capital when needed.
i-92919def8f4ff654-888	Mr President, I would like to There is a wonderfully different debate here. Here we are from the Left Party and the Moderates and think we are almost as good. But we will come back in the trade debate in February, and then we will be able to file on some differences. I think it is important to say that we need a plethora of alternatives. We need a lot of options, and some of them should be government-led. But it is also important that we get many private actors. Given what it looks like in Sweden and the flow that we have today, especially refugee flows, I think that the investment we want to make at IFS – advice for new arrivals – might be even more important. This is interesting, because IFS was originally an association that joined forces with a state actor, Almi. I know it's only happened once. There is special expertise here. We must be able to capture tomorrow's entrepreneurship and the many entrepreneurs that are now coming to Sweden. We have received an influx of middle-class entrepreneurial-experienced people who must quickly enter their working lives. Here I can see that IFS and Almi can make a big contribution by offering services and advice on how to take your entrepreneurship with you from your home country to get started in Sweden much faster. This is a good way to use Almi, for example, and we must be able to take many of the clever solutions with us in other contexts too. It was just a change of line, but I thank you for that.
i-92919def8f4ff654-897	Mr President, I would like to Anyone waiting for something good had to wait a long time this time. Nutrition policy depends on interaction with virtually all other policy areas. Without training, there are not competent employees to hire, but infrastructure cannot transport goods and services and without functioning broadband the industry or civil society cannot function. Without many more housing and functioning well-being with accessible preschools, retirement homes, schools and health care, it is also not possible to start a business or find staff. We have set the target of the EU's lowest unemployment rate by 2020. The goal that we have set can, will and will all of Sweden contribute to. It is ambitious, and it is important for real. In order to achieve this goal, the various strengths of all the regions of Sweden have their given role. Our vehicle cluster is set against its counterparts in Germany, USA or China, our IT cluster is set against Silicon Valley and our forest industry and our paper cluster is set against similar environments in Finland and Canada. And at my home in Åre, and at all other tourist destinations in Sweden, we compete for the tourists with the rest of the world. Sweden's competitiveness depends on a job policy that allows each region to seize and develop its strengths, but at the same time points to the challenges that are common to Sweden as a country and where we need to gather strength at national level. It can be life science, environmental technology or digitalisation. Mr President, I would like to When Statistics Sweden presented its national accounts for the third quarter, it became clear that Sweden's economy is showing its strongest side right now. Compared to the quarter of 2014, GDP rose by 3.9 per cent. These are historically high levels. SCB's description of the Bnp statistics shows that the increase is bred and covers both consumption and investment as well as exports. The labour market also looks better. According to the latest Labour Force Survey, employment grew by 81,000 persons in October from the year before. The share of the employed also increased. At the same time, unemployment fell by 0.8 percentage points to 6.7 per cent. Mr President, I would like to A little better numbers and a little more people at work do not allow you to sit back and think that it is possible to slow down into the future. Sweden still has a lot of challenges to solve. It is therefore a little bit surprising that I can see that the level of ambition with regard to what we are debating today – economic policy – is not as high if you compare the proposal that the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party have made with the proposals that the Moderates, Liberals, Christian Democrats and the Center Party are presenting separately for today's debate. I wonder what you see need to slow down. Are there too many tourists coming to Sweden? Is it too much for you? Is there too much interaction? We see the importance of an export strategy and a new industrialisation strategy. We see the need for a national forestry programme and a long-term food strategy. We see the need for research and innovation. We see that the government is investing heavily in education and skills, as every company I meet demands. We see the need for collaboration between industry, research, politics and society in general. If we take a closer look at the forestry industry, it is not only December's Christmas tree purchase that makes it grow, but it is going well. The National Forest Programme's vision is that forests – the green gold – will contribute to jobs and sustainable growth throughout the country as well as to the development of a growing bioeconomy. We can see that Vinnova has already co-financed several projects where forest raw materials can be used in the textile and chemical sectors to develop new products. We see that the sector dealing with cardboard, packaging materials and sawn wood materials is doing well. We also see that the wood sector is doing well. The latest weekly newsletter from the Swedish Municipalities and County Council shows that there were 173 000 potential homes in completed and current detailed plans among 54 of Sweden's growth municipalities. What if a large part of these homes were built in wood? Last year, only 22,000 dwellings were built in the municipalities. But now, with the government's housing investment, the municipalities are taking the initiative for increased housing construction. And the forest industry, like other industries, needs collaboration to grow. Mr President, I would like to Another industry that I like to mention is the tourism industry. It extends from Abisko to Österlen. It is employment-intensive. The jobs cannot be moved – the mountains are where they stand, we have the archipelago outside and Gotland is very nice where it is. We have fantastic tourist destinations. We have experiences to offer. We have a recognized good food that attracts guests from all corners of the world. But we are actually competing with the whole world, and we must reach out with what makes Sweden amazing. Therefore, the state owns together with the industry Visit Sweden to market Sweden. We very much welcome the efforts made by the government, together with the Left Party of 30 million extra, to attract more people to visit us and to continue efforts for destination development. Here I am very surprised that so many other parties do not stand up for this initiative. The tourism industry is also an industry in need of collaboration; I know that from experience. The development of the destinations in Jämtland and Härjedalen is due to cooperation between the companies, the public, voluntary organisations such as the sports movement, research and, not least, the enthusiasts. Why, then, have I chosen to focus the entire expenditure category 24 on the forest and the tourism industry? Yes, I have because they exist throughout Sweden. They are important for the development of cities, but they are even more important for rural development. Together, they contribute to new jobs, and this develops Sweden. Or perhaps I have chosen it so that those of you who are taking part in the debate today will long for the perfect ride in a snow-rich forest in the mountains.
i-92919def8f4ff654-917	Mr President, I would like to Mrs Sätherberg mentioned a number of key words in her speech. She talked about the forest industry, the tourism industry and some other things. She also mentioned the infrastructure at the outset, and that is what I was going to take on board. A key factor for the industries that Anna-Anna-Caren Sätherberg, and also people in Swedish industry from e.g. exporting industry, addresses, is working transport. People should be able to go to and from work, be able to visit a restaurant or hotel or get goods in an international market. In this respect, Mr President, we can see that the government has an agenda that is very much about making transport more expensive and less expensive. We agree in some parts on increased road and rail maintenance, but there are other areas of conflict. The Parliament has made a decision and says that Bromma airport will remain, but the government continues to close Bromma airport. It is not a Stockholm question but something that hits Åre, Ängelholm, Visby and other places. The government is also working to introduce both a flight tax and a truck tax. If we look at the truck issue we can see that the forest industry Anna-Anna-Caren Sätherberg mentions would be hit pretty hard if you introduced that kind of tax. Therefore, Mr President, I would simply like to ask Anna-Anna-Caren Sätherberg: if she and the Social Democrats want to introduce air taxes and truck taxes and work to close down Bromma airport – how will it be better for entrepreneurs in Jämtland and elsewhere?
i-92919def8f4ff654-921	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking, Lars Helmered! They're always the same questions, somehow. It's always Bromma, and it's always treasure. It's never what the state looks like now, what we took over and what we bet on. When it comes to Bromma Airport, Lars Helmered knows after many debates that there is an investigation going on. It should look at the fact that communications will not deteriorate for us in the country, nor for Stockholm as a city. It also looks at what Stockholm so badly needs, namely a proper housing policy after incredibly many years of no construction in this city. But the important thing about the investigation is that it should really tell us that there is the possibility of communications, both for the business community and for individuals. I live in a part of the country that needs flights; Lars Helmered is quite right in that. The other pieces Lars Helmered points to are also investigations. When it comes to road wear and tear, if that's what he was thinking about, it's also an investigation. We don't know what it looks like later. I wonder if we could perhaps discuss these issues once the proposals come. I would, however, like to ask Lars Helmered a question. Nevertheless, he talks about tourism and thinks it is important, and we have a fairly common view of how important exports are and that there are many export crowns here. Why, for example, do you choose not to strengthen the funding for Visit Sweden to attract more guests?
i-92919def8f4ff654-925	Mr President, I would like to I'm happy to come back to you widely about the tourism industry and other initiatives in more and more contexts, but I'm going back to the main issue of transport. I find it interesting, Mr President, that AnnaAnna-Caren Sätherberg comes in and talks about how important the forest industry is and how important the tourism industry is. I very much share that view, because we can see that it means a great deal to jobs, export revenues and all that. But we can see that a decisive factor is precisely good conditions for transport. To repeat: there are parts in which we agree, for example in terms of substantially increasing maintenance of road and rail in order to make the system work better. But we can see that flights and trucks are very crucial in selected parts of the country. For example, in the forest industry, the cost of transport is crucial if you are to extract coarsely from the forest to use, for example, biomass. There, the cost of logistics is so high that it is crucial if we are able politically to bring forward reforms for longer and heavier truck transport, as the Moderates want. This has proven to save both money and the environment in the use in the forest industry. The government has messed up, delayed and weakened this. Then we come back to the other pieces. It is quite true that these are investigations that look at both airline tax and truck tax, but I believe that the direction of the government is clear. So it is not said to make it easier and cheaper for industry and others, but to make it more expensive for the forest industry. In the discussion about Bromma Airport there are a number of reservations raised by Anna-Anna-Caren Sätherberg, but the goal is to close the airport. This would impair the ability of many parts of the country to transport. This is the overall picture that strikes many important industries. So we are back on the main issue, Mr President. If you like Anna-Anna-Caren Sätherberg and the government want to introduce airline tax and truck tax, delay this with heavy and long trucks and work on closing down Bromma – how will it be better for the business community in Jämtland or in other parts of the country?
i-92919def8f4ff654-930	Mr President, I would like to The Institute of Forest Research shows how much the forest industry and transport loses from the fact that the roads are far too bad. What could it be? I think it's up to almost 1 billion a year. This means that the investment we make in the bearing and maintenance of roads, which for so long have been reduced and lowered years from year to year in the whole area where I live, is part of meeting the transport needs of the forest industry. It's about them not breaking their trucks. Another part of the forest industry is to invest in making the most of what may now come in the venture capital proposal with demonstration facilities and to use the forest for many more things. That is also what the Moderates are actually cutting down on in Vinnova's money. They are reduced quite sharply. It is like the research that is being carried out that produces the new products in the forest – those that allow the forest to be adapted from paper to become even more. The forest industry itself says that it would create 15 000 – 20 000 new jobs. We are following the forest industry hand in hand in the national forest programme. There is of course also the discussion about the part Lars Hjälmered describes, i.e. the road wear charge.
i-92919def8f4ff654-933	Mr President, I would like to AnnaAnna-Caren Sätherberg and I have a common interest. We may have more, I don't know, but skiing isn't my strong suit. Although there is a lot of snow in Värmland, I think Åre has a little more and maybe also more slopes to go in. When Sätherberg talks about the tourism industry, however, I am tempted to ask a question. It mentions words such as export, innovation and new industrialisation strategy – which, by the way, would give a lot of points in Wordfeud, I would think. It is one of the longest words that can be found in this bill. Education is also mentioned at all. The question then arises: in what way do the Social Democrats and this government contribute to the tourism industry also receiving these strategies and policy documents as well as the export thinking that exists? We can nevertheless note that the 30 million additional destination development that Anna-Anna-Caren Sätherberg mentioned is basically not worth anything if you do not have knowledgeable people in these places who know what they are doing, who can receive both national and international visits, who know what customers want and who are trained in meeting management, meeting planning and whatever it may be called. Do they really have the know-how in not least budget and so on as they have in other places around the world? In what way can Anna-Anna-Caren Sätherberg say that her party has helped to broaden that knowledge in the tourism industry?
i-92919def8f4ff654-936	Mr President, I would like to Penilla and I are both very close to the heart of the hospitality industry, and I promise her that we have great ski instructors who – if she chooses to come up – can teach her everything about skiing. Even I can do that, although I will readily admit that unfortunately I do not have as much patience. However, that is not what we were going to talk about, but we were going to talk about completely different things. We were going to talk about the hospitality business. 30 million isn't just 30 million, it's 30 million extra. I note that the Christian Democrats and we are proposing that it be extra. It's about reaching out to other markets, getting more tourists home and getting more foreign tourists to spend money with us as well as having a longer stay when they're here. This is incredibly important. Penilla, like me, knows how the middle class is increasing throughout the world and really wants to travel, and they should visit Sweden. What we do more is spend more money at universities and colleges. We spend money, for example, on Mid Sweden University, which is researching. There's Etour. We don't have much tourism research in Sweden, but we have one in Östersund that is very good. Just now, a fast track was also made with chefs. Penilla Gunther and I know just how many people are missing every day; I usually go out and check out, and then you also know that not everyone is signing up for Arbetsförmedlingen. We spend more money on maintenance of the railway, so that the trains get to Åre– those who walk, that is. At least they'll be there. We also spend money on education that allows us to employ more people in this amazing industry.
i-92919def8f4ff654-940	Mr President, I would like to I note that this is a little vague on the education front on the part of the Social Democrats here. Both Sätherberg and I know that tourism education, not least at the university of applied sciences, is almost zero and has no priority. If we are to have a destination development in Sweden and qualitatively good meetings, congresses, large events and group trips to Sweden, it is clear that we must have well-trained staff. It's demanding people who come here. We ourselves know how demanding we are when we are in different places and really make demands for good service, environmental thinking, equal treatment and whatever it may be. We have that in us and with us when we travel. And these requirements are imposed not least by various professional organisations all over the world. The industry organisations in the tourism industry, which I have the privilege to meet a little now and then both within and outside Sweden, say that Sweden is a fantastic country but that we hardly have any training in this area. Then I ask the question again: how are we going to deal with this? Of course, we can have good people of both a practical and an academic nature, but it is also important to know in which industry you are in. Then the tourism industry also needs part of innovation and other strategies to develop as an industry. Even if both of our parties allocate money, this does not mean that we automatically obtain that knowledge. We hope so, but something more needs to be done. The difference is that we Christian Democrats have written it both in our action programme and in the motion.
i-92919def8f4ff654-944	Mr President, I would like to Penilla Gunther says that strategies are needed for this. This is also why the tourism industry is part of Sweden's export strategy. I do not think it has done so before, but I am deeply proud that it is there as a point. When it comes to education, you're absolutely right. This industry needs skills to be increased. That goes without saying. That is why, instead of reducing, we are adding more money to the university of applied sciences. There will be no more polytechnic education in the tourism industry with less money. It was when the funds decreased during the time of the Alliance, Penilla, that the vocational training that existed disappeared. I think we had two in Jämtland and four in Dalarna, and all disappeared. But they also needed quality assurance a little bit more, so you're right about that too. Of course, we have a job to do with the industry, which calls for quality assurance of education, more polytechnic places and an increase in skills. This is something that the tourism industry in Sweden would feel very well about.
i-92919def8f4ff654-948	Mr President, I would like to Energy, competitiveness, jobs and climate are words that are closely linked. Sweden and the world are in a mining period. The climate threat is the greatest challenge our world has ever faced. At the same time, we have major challenges in terms of migration, for example, and the opportunity for people to create a secure future in a society where work, education and well-functioning welfare are fundamental pillars that we cannot and should not neglect. In this complex world, we must manage to deal with many issues at the same time and take into account how one area of society is linked to another, as well as energy issues. We need secure energy production with electricity that is always available when we need it, an energy system that does not adversely affect the climate or biodiversity and energy at competitive prices that makes companies want to establish, grow and create jobs in Sweden. Jobs that give people the freedom to decide for themselves over their lives and generate tax revenue for our common welfare are important in a modern energy policy. Energy policy must therefore be based on what society we want and not just take into account individual forces. Mr President, I would like to At the moment, work is under way within the Energi Commission. The goal is to create the conditions for a good and sustainable energy policy in Sweden. This is a work that the Moderates welcome, but at the same time we are concerned about the government's actions. Prerequisite talks are words that Energy Minister Baylan has used on several occasions to describe the work of the Commission. It is therefore remarkable that Baylan is changing the conditions for the talks while they are going on. We do not stand with our backs against the wall, is another expression that the Minister for Energy has used to describe the current situation in Swedish electricity production. By this he probably refers to the fact that there is no immediate crisis. But we have concerns in Swedish electricity production with low electricity prices that give low profitability and a tax burden that has emerged during times when earnings were quite different. In this situation, it is difficult to generate new investments in electricity generation. The industry itself says that low electricity prices, combined with the high tax burden, are crucial to its ability to invest. We must listen to these warning signals. We must act to secure future production. Mr President, I would like to The possible agreement of the Energy Commission is supposed to apply from 2025, but the conditions for the outcome are being laid today. It is therefore worrying that the Red-Green Government ignores the challenges facing the energy industry and unilaterally chooses to strike at power strokes they do not like by increasing the power tax on nuclear power and subsidising even more volatile electricity which, in the short term, pushes down prices and further impairs the profitability of all electricity producers. It is an act that risks destroying existing electricity generation and that could dramatically change the conditions for the future Swedish energy supply. Mr President, I would like to We Moderates see the challenges. We are aware of the difficult situation in the energy industry. We know that low electricity prices today benefit Swedish competitiveness in the short term, but in the long term it creates concerns about how electricity supply will work. The energy industry is concerned, and the Swedish industry is concerned. Even those receiving support today are concerned that even more electricity is currently being subsidised into an overheated system. The only ones who don't seem to be particularly concerned are the Red Green Government. We Moderates would rather have seen an energy policy that preserves the good conditions we have after all. We don't stand with our backs against the wall, but we can quickly end up there. Mr President, I would like to The Alliance's energy agreement, decided by the Swedish Parliament in 2009, has given Swedish consumers a secure supply of electricity at competitive prices and given a clear focus on future electricity generation. But at present, with low electricity prices and a growing tax burden along with regulatory frameworks and legislation that make it difficult and costly, it is time to review the content of energy policy. I agree with Minister Baylan that we are not yet standing with our backs against the wall. Therefore, a collection of the guidelines set out by the Alliance's Energy Agreement, together with a continued focus on research into tomorrow's energy solutions, would enable us, within the framework of the Energy Commission, to find out what will apply after 2025. What we need and what the Moderates want to see in the near future are decisions so that the functioning electricity supply we have continues to produce its entire life span out. We must provide the conditions for hydropower to maintain and develop its production, so that it will continue to be a natural base producer of reliable and renewable electricity in the future. We need to link electricity generation in the north with consumers in the south. Otherwise, southern Sweden will soon be in danger of falling into situations of power shortages due to the announced nuclear shutdowns. New renewable electricity will continue to grow in Sweden but not at the expense of existing climate-smart electricity generation. An energy policy that is only capable of looking at one force at a time risks damaging the whole. Swedish industry must be informed that we can guarantee electricity at competitive prices in the future as well. We must have an energy policy that creates calm and confidence in the future, not one that creates twitchiness and uncertainty. Mr President, I would like to Solar cell investments and new renewable electricity in all honour, but where are the decisions that secure power and security of supply? Where are the decisions that ensure that additional base production is not shut down? If the Red-Green Government really wants to create the conditions for a broad, long-term and sustainable energy policy, it should not destroy the conditions but secure what we have today so that new time and opportunities can emerge. Then the Energy Commission can conduct its unbiased talks for the good of Sweden's and Sweden's citizens. Let me conclude by thanking all my colleagues in the Committee on Industry. This is my last debate as a member of this particular committee. It's been a great time. Now I look forward to conducting tax debates with you in my new role as an energy expert in the Tax Committee.
i-92919def8f4ff654-969	Mr President, I would like to It was a surprise that Mrs Cecilie is changing committees, but I am delighted with the possibility of a change of line on the work of this committee. There is a growing recognition that the nuclear power reactors are getting old. We may have different perceptions of how long they will last, but we are approaching a point where we need to discuss politically a plan for what to take on and how to create the conditions for new investments. There are basically no new investments in the market today because electricity prices are so low. In October, the Government presented a proposal to raise the target in the electricity certification system. We got a majority in parliament for it and increased the rate of renewable expansion, which is one way to guarantee new investments. The Moderates were one of the parties that voted against this reform to allow for new investments. New nuclear power is expensive. Vattenfall has withdrawn its work in investigating and planning for new nuclear power. They say it's such a bad deal that you're not interested in looking at it. Nor has any of the other nuclear power plants expressed an interest in looking at new nuclear power. How do the Moderates, who voted against the government's proposal to enable new investments, want to guarantee the long-term supply of electricity? What is the Moderate plan for the shift that Sweden faces? The Green Party, the government and more are backing the 100 percent renewable energy plan. But if the Moderates do not want this plan, how does Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby intend to secure Sweden's electricity supply? What reforms does Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby consider necessary?
i-92919def8f4ff654-975	Mr President, I would like to I thank Lise Nordin for the questions. I assume that Lise Nordin listened to my speech. What happens when you raise the level of ambition in the electricity certification system right now is that you bring even more electricity into an already overheated system. Electricity prices will be pushed down in the short term. The renewables industry is very concerned. Today, there is no non-subsidised profitability in electricity generation. There is no profitability if you do not build new ones. The big problem, which I am concerned about the government not seeing, is that by subsidising even more renewable electricity, we are putting our feet away and the opportunity for all other investments in electricity generation. No one wants to invest when there is no way to get their money back. As far as nuclear energy is concerned, Lise Nordin is quite right that we are facing a dramatic situation. We are receiving signals from the nuclear industry that further reactors are at risk of being shut down. We are facing an uncontrolled phase-out of Swedish nuclear power, which currently accounts for 40% of Swedish electricity production. Is that what Lise Nordin and the Green Party want – an uncontrolled and chaotic shutdown of 40 per cent of Swedish electricity production, which risks destroying Swedish industry, risks raising electricity prices unchecked and risks forcing us to import dirty and climate-smart electricity from southern Europe?
i-92919def8f4ff654-980	Mr President, I would like to I and the Green Party have long been anticipating the development we are seeing. I have said many times in this House for several years that Sweden needs a plan because nuclear power is getting old. It is time for all politicians to open their eyes and see that today's reactors have both technical problems and problems with profitability. A policy is needed, because the market cannot solve this challenge itself. We have known for a long time that several reactors are suffering from profitability problems. Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby mentioned the impact tax in her speech. This adjustment corresponds to about 1 øre per kilowatt hour, so it becomes incorrect to focus on it. One of the major economic changes for nuclear power owners is, above all, the price of electricity, which is currently very low in Sweden. The biggest change that has been affected by a political decision is the increased safety requirements with independent cooling. It costs about SEK 1 billion per reactor. Fortunately, I have not heard that the Moderates or any other party have opposed the higher safety standards. This is what affects the calculations of nuclear power owners most right now. We also have the charge for nuclear waste, which the government raised almost a year ago because the Authority felt that the nuclear industry did not pay the full cost of its waste. The nuclear waste levy was almost doubled to ensure that there is enough money to handle the waste. I hope the Moderates are behind that increase. So we should look soberly at the economic situation of nuclear reactors. We have a decision to shut down four reactors by 2020. Production in these reactors has been low due to technical problems. The total production in these four reactors is less than Sweden's total electricity surplus. I and the Green Party are looking at a gradual transition in which nuclear power is phased out for age reasons and replaced by renewable energy and energy efficiency. I still wonder what the Moderates have for the future energy system and a transition that is taking place in an economically and environmentally smart way.
i-92919def8f4ff654-988	Mr President, I would like to The plan of the Green Party and the government to take out the electricity market is doomed to failure. If the Red-Green Government really wants to see investments in Swedish electricity production, it is illogical and short-term to subsidise more volatile electricity in an overheated market that is already struggling with low profitability and extremely low electricity prices. In Sweden we must have a market in which the various power teams carry themselves. To plan for electricity generation investments by continuing to subsidise is to remove the opportunities for other electricity generation to survive. If the objective of the Green Party and the Government is to have an electricity system that is 100% renewable, it is very remarkable that by raising the level of ambition in the electricity certification system you are helping to knock out existing renewable electricity production. We receive, and I assume that the Social Democrats and the Green Party also receive clear signals from, among other things, the existing wind power industry that the investments made and now phased out of the electricity certification system do not pay off. It'll shut down. By phasing in new renewable electricity production in a subsidy system, you are eliminating renewable electricity production. This does not increase the share of renewable energy in the system, but it will be very expensive for Swedish electricity consumers.
i-92919def8f4ff654-993	Mr President, I would like to In view of the ongoing climate negotiations, it is worth emphasising that the current Swedish climate and energy policy is characterised by a far too narrow approach to what is actually feasible in order to influence emissions from fossil fuels. Already the other week we could see how quickly we ended up nationally in a need to import well over 2,000 megawatts of electric power to Sweden when the wind was changing and it became cold. It was a level almost equal to one tenth of the country's power requirements. This is something that once again reminds us that the increase in weather-dependent power production puts us in a situation where we are increasingly forced to rely on imports of fossil fuels that our neighbours, among other things, have at our disposal. The Swedish democrats' view is that they lack a global perspective on these issues in Sweden. Both the present and the previous government seem to want to win the battle at home without realizing that Sweden – or the EU – can only affect global CO2 emissions to a very limited extent. The Swedish democrats here see an obvious risk in the Swedish ambition to act as a pioneer in the field of climate change. It takes on additional commitments, emission reductions or charges that raise energy prices without achieving any climate effect. There is an imminent danger that it may be exactly the opposite. We therefore consider it of the utmost importance that the competitiveness of both Swedish and European industry should not deteriorate to such an extent that CO2 generating production is transferred to countries with less ambitious climate policies or where other environmental, labour and human rights considerations are neglected. With regard to the proposals dealt with in the budget proposal, I would like to touch on the changes made, among other things, to the Energy Tax Act. For several years, the Swedish Democrats have been making proposals that the different power laws should have more similar conditions and that the general exemption that exists for wind power, for example, in terms of the power limit in order to be exempt from energy taxation for operators who do not professionally supply electricity, needs to be removed. It is therefore gratifying that the Social Democrats and the Green Party, among other things, proposed to close this gap in tax legislation. It has provided an opportunity for a large-scale expansion of wind power in general only with a view to achieving the tax exemption. More equal conditions are now being set between the different power classes. Although it first happens after demands from Norway, it is always nice when the Swedish Democrats can hear for their politics. As far as our motion for the energy expenditure area is concerned, we differ considerably from the government. This is mainly where we propose to remove support and subsidies for wind power and solar power of nearly SEK 400 million on an annual basis during the budget period. Subsidies to wind and solar power increase the requirements for regulatory power, and weather-dependent power sources of this kind also present significant challenges for the electricity grids and for the ability to control the power balance. In particular, given the seasonality of the Swedish power system, the Swedish Democrats do not see any reason to target multi-billion-dollar subsidies to solar power during the coming budgetary period, as we have no problems with our energy supply during the warmer part of the year. As far as the Swedish Democrats' efforts are concerned, we allocate funds for nuclear research and development and the construction of a Swedish research reactor. Today, we use only a few percent of the potential of the uranium that has been dug up, while the remaining is meant to be buried as waste. The Swedish democrats do not see this as particularly resource efficient. There are several promising projects with different types of rapid nuclear reactors, also known as fourth generation nuclear power, which are currently under way. With such a reactor, research in Sweden can be moved forward one more step. This is something that the Swedish Democrats consider desirable, as these types of reactors can reuse the nuclear fuel used in the past and thus also help to solve the problem of both reducing the volume of waste and the time for disposal. Production of bio-based methane gas from various waste products is an area in which we invest more and where we see that there is an untapped potential. This is also particularly interesting given that the methane gas offers a very flexible use as it can be used for both electricity and heat production but also as a vehicle fuel. We therefore allocate funds in the budget to investment aid for biogas and to the market introduction of new technologies in this area. Methanegas of residual waste can of course never alone replace today's fossil fuels in the transport sector. But for the goal of reducing the country's greenhouse gas emissions, biogas has a double effect. On the one hand, it is renewable, which means that it does not produce net emissions of carbon dioxide, and on the other hand, the use of biogas means that the emissions of methane gas, which is itself a greenhouse gas, can be reduced. With this, I would like to support the Swedish Democrats' reservation 1 in the report.
i-92919def8f4ff654-1008	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is currently the world leader in renewable energy. It became clear when the Germanwatch organisation released its annual climate ranking yesterday. There, Sweden is ranked top in terms of renewable energy and emission reductions. It is the Alliance's climate policy with the Center Party at its head that has produced results. Yet Sweden loses its ranking this year. Why? L for me read: Experts write the government for ranking the good resu l ts of the country 中 s previous efforts. Thus, experts criticise the government for wasting the good results it has achieved in the past. It is an independent organisation that criticises the Swedish government for failing environmental policy and losing its leadership shirt in the international context. During the time of the alliance government, the installed power and production of wind power increased tenfold, and bioenergy increased by over 50 percent. The target of more than half of the energy supply coming from renewable sources by 2020 was reached in 2012. Key to this development is the Alliance's Energy Agreement and the roll-out of electricity certificates, which obliges energy producers to produce a certain share of renewable energy. In order to continue this development, we also supported the Government's proposal to increase the ambition of the electricity certification system that was presented earlier this autumn. On the other hand, it is unbelievable how the government chooses to raise taxes on what is renewable and environmentally smart. To increase the tax by 1⁄2 billion on ethanol, wind power, solar electricity and so on is nothing more than a betrayal of the development we interested in the environment are fighting for. We in the Center Party not only dismiss those proposals, but also come with a full battery of our own green proposals that create more renewable electricity generation, greener transport sector and fewer emissions of climate gases, particles and other things. Unlike the government, we listen to both research and the industry and deliver proposals accordingly. We want, for example:
i-92919def8f4ff654-1015	Let more people take part in the micro-production deduction that the Alliance Government presented and put through in the budget that was supported by the Swedish Parliament last year. Let the deduction be made directly on the invoice as for the ROT and RUT deduction. 中 Setting up 10 000 charging poles for electric vehicles not only depending on which municipality happens to be interested but structurally across the country and allowing market players to play a part in steering development.
i-Wffuo34kPGQAKHxcU5TYku	I can go on for a long time. We are addressing the challenges we face in future energy systems and electricity systems. That's where resources should be put. It is above all the electricity system we are talking about in the budget that the Committee on Economic Affairs is dealing with. We want to spend resources on technology development and pilot projects. There, Sweden can make a difference globally by taking the lead and investing in research. We can thus spread our technology to other countries later. It creates jobs here and also better conditions for the green revolution throughout the world. That is why we choose in our budget to devote a great deal of resources to energy stocks. It is both a matter of rewarding those who want to install an energy storage facility at home with, for example, a Tesla battery but also larger pilot projects. We imagine power-to-gas, pump power plants and other things that may need extra support to get started and create the technology that we can then use to reduce power problems and other things. For us, energy stocks are not just about the individual consumer being able to store his own produced electricity to use when he then needs it more. It's all about so much more, because there are so many more benefits with energy stocks. You can cut power peaks by charging the batteries at night and then use the electricity when you need it most in the mornings and evenings. It provides economic benefits both for consumers and for network owners who do not have to expand their networks to manage power peaks. It is a matter of society not needing an equivalent power reserve. In addition, with smart regulation and wise structures, society may even have a backup to deal with frequency problems and rapid fluctuations in the output of electricity. In short, with energy stocks, forward-looking technologies and smart systems and regulations, we can have a huge potential – a potential that can help us with the impact problem. Of course, it can't solve everything, but it can do a very large part. Sweden should be a pioneer country on environmental, climate and energy issues. For the Center Party, being a pioneer country means showing concrete results. That is what the results of the years of the alliance government show. That's how we get other countries to follow us. We will be able to both reduce our emissions and increase our growth. Rather, the government seems to aim for detailed regulations and high-flying visions and believe that this is what will make Sweden progress. Obviously, it's not working. The Germanwatch report yesterday clearly shows this. I hope that the government will instead read our budget and take on board the proposals we have to create a real climate change – a real, green transition. Then Sweden can start climbing in rankings again and also help internationally.
i-92919def8f4ff654-1027	Mr President, I would like to I have to say that I think it is quite strong when Rickard Nordin beats his chest for the investments that have been made in renewable energy that have largely been due to technology. Even the renewables industry says that they have had good growth for a long time because the technology is mature. A clearer policy could have gone faster. It is clear that we should jointly be pleased with investments in renewable energy, but I think we should be objective when discussing which policy it is that leads to what is happening and which does not lead to anything. Rickard Nordin lifted a report from yesterday from Germanwatch out of context in a way that is quite inappropriate. We know that Sweden is a leading country and that we have risen in several rankings. When the government decided a year ago on a clear policy for 100 percent renewable energy, there was great global attention when we rose in ranking over countries' attractiveness for investments in renewable energy. In the ongoing climate negotiations, Sweden has been given a central negotiating role because we have stepped forward. Now we have in our backpack in the climate negotiations Sweden's historically largest budget investment on climate – SEK 4 1⁄2 billion for next year. Let me comment on something specific about solar investments. The Center Party sat in the government for eight years without being able to take advantage of the great interest in solar electricity. The government is investing heavily in solar investment. There are now several improvements to the rules, including VAT registration. It is my ambition that we will soon find a solution for it. The Center Party failed to do so for eight years. I simply wonder what the Center Party is now prepared to vote for. In rhetoric, the Center Party has a policy that should be quite close to the government on, for example, 100% renewable and the tools needed to get there. Two of the issues recently investigated by the Swedish Energy Agency are white certificates and offshore wind power. How does the Center Party feel about concrete proposals where we could get a majority in parliament for important investments in renewable energy?
i-92919def8f4ff654-1033	Mr President, I would like to I can only note that under the alliance government the installed power and production of wind power increased tenfold. When the Green Party acted as a support party to the current government comrades during the previous term of office, nothing happened. It is the extension of the electricity certification system that has also delivered. It is an electricity certification system in which the Centre Party is the only party that has been involved in all the decisions that have been taken. I will come back to the proposals we have. We say: Drop the VAT registration for smaller producers of electricity! It's in our budget. Let more people take part in the deduction for micro-production of electricity! It's in our budget. Let the deduction be made directly on the invoice, just like the ROT and RUT deduction! It's in our budget. Many of these things are proposed. This isn't weird. As far as white electricity certificates are concerned, we can go back to 2006 to see that the Center Party supported them. As far as offshore wind energy is concerned, our budget states that we would like to see the connection fee abolished. These are things to read black and white to Lise Nordin if she tries to do so. It's not that hard. We also want a 100% renewable electricity and energy system, and we want that by 2040. This is also available to read to those who are interested. My problem is rather what is not happening on the part of the government. The Micro Production Compensation was implemented by the Alliance. It was the Center Party's proposal that was implemented. We now want to take this forward and develop it further. We would have liked to have seen a net charge, but that was not possible in view of the tax rules that obviously exist. So I find it difficult to see the problem of Lise Nordin and the Green Party. Many of the proposals we have are good proposals, and it would be nice if the government picked them up and made them its policy. I think it would have made quite a difference for Sweden's electricity system and the renewable electricity system.
i-92919def8f4ff654-1039	Mr President, I would like to I will be perfectly honest and say that I believe that the Green Party and the Center Party are quite close to each other in concrete proposals on energy. The key is that it will become a reality. We have had eight years in Sweden when little happened in the policy to promote renewable energy. I am very happy that wind power was greatly expanded, but it is doubtful how much of what was due to political decisions by the previous government. The electricity certification system is something the Green Party has been for ever since it was introduced in 2003. We have proposed higher targets at every opportunity, and that makes me so happy that our parties were able to agree in October to raise the target together with the Social Democrats and the Left Party at last so that we can get more renewable energy in Sweden. Interest in solar issues has not been captured by the previous government. Now a lot is happening, and there are still things to do. Unfortunately, the tax reduction introduced at the end of the year, which provides a remuneration for a micro-producer with solar cells on its roof, applies, with the previous proposal, only to those who have their own house roof. It is now on the income tax return and not on the electricity bill. It is amazing if the Center Party too joins in on these proposals, but it has not been made a reality in the past. The government has announced in the budget that we are discussing today that it is now investigating precisely these improvements so that more people can take advantage of the possibilities of solar energy on their roof. There is no doubt that the government, with the major investments made, is serious about solar energy. During the previous government, a long queue has been built up with people who want to put solar cells on their roof but who have not received the money. This queue manages the government with an investment of SEK 1.4 billion. All those in line will have access to the support. We have also given an important assignment to the Swedish Energy Agency to investigate a solar strategy for Sweden – something we have never had before. There's a lot going on. I have to say, Mr President, that it will be quite strong if the Center Party now beats its chest for the changes it claims to want to make when that is exactly what the government is working on. These are things that the previous government failed to get in place.
i-92919def8f4ff654-1046	Mr President, I would like to If we start with the queue to the Swedish Energy Agency on solar cell support grazing the Center Party of it already 2016 and 2017, significantly faster than the government. That is also why we have more money in our budget. But for me this is not about who has the most money; it is about who has the best proposal. That's the Center Party way ahead. I agree – we are close on several issues. However, there are also clear decisive differences. This applies, among other things, to sun tax. How does the solar tax benefit the expansion of renewable energy? Introduce taxes on self-production of electricity for those who want to set up a solar panel on their roof hits the firm that has a freezer store and uses most electricity in the summer and those housing associations that would like to use more of self-produced electricity. How is the renewable expansion of electricity benefitted by the fact that small-scale hydroelectric power is being forced to disintegrate? How does it benefit from the government not doing anything when you see the county boards going berserk? How does it benefit the deployment of renewable energy? These are given issues in which we differ clearly. It is clear that we have many good proposals that are common, but we also have crucial differences. This is the big difference. We both want a lot. But we deliver, and the government does not do so when taxes are imposed on renewables.
i-92919def8f4ff654-1050	Mr President, I would like to Energy policy is one of the cornerstones of a functioning society. Security of energy supply is a prerequisite for prosperity. This parliamentary debate is therefore important for Sweden's future. It's just a shame the Minister for Energy can't be here with us today. Mr President, I would like to We in the Liberals have three overarching objectives for our energy policy. It is the climate, security of supply and energy security. We want to see an energy policy guided by these three objectives. Unfortunately, we do not think this is the case in the government budget. The most important thing is the climate. Like Bill Clinton, one of his campaigns was on the theme of It 中 s the economy, precipitated, we should all these days think It 中 s the climate, precipitated. The objective of Swedish energy policy and, above all, of European and global energy policy must be 100% carbon-free. It is a much more relevant goal in these times and much more urgent to meet than the government's somewhat diffuse vision of 100 percent renewable. I had the privilege of representing the Liberals at the Paris climate summit earlier this week. One wonders whether it was really the same meeting that the government ministers attended. The focus was on reducing CO2 emissions. The focus was not to get rid of low-carbon energy sources. Mr President, I would like to We know that the challenges are above all beyond Sweden's borders. We can do much more to reduce CO2 emissions in our neighbouring countries. In Sweden, we have achieved almost 100% carbon-free energy production, but the challenges are beyond Sweden's borders. Unfortunately, the government has taken a strict Swedish perspective. The important thing is that Sweden can meet its goals and be the best in the class. But it does not benefit the world in any way that the government boasts fine environmental objectives if thousands of people die at the same time in Poland every year of lung cancer because of coal burning or if our Baltic neighbours are burning fossil fuels and the EU's climate targets are therefore bursting. Climate is a cross-border issue, and energy policy must have clear features of this. The other energy policy objectives of the liberals are security of supply. We must be able to guarantee electricity at reasonable prices every day of the year. During a visit that some of us made to SSAB this summer, it became apparent that only 0.1 seconds of power outage causes damage of several million SEK and destroys 75 tons of steel for the company. These figures pinpoint what security of supply means in practice, and where the balance of power is central. The more weather-dependent electricity production we build into the system, the greater the challenge. As long as we do not have storage facilities for electricity, we must safeguard the basic power we have in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to The third objective of the liberals in energy policy has a security policy ring and is about energy security. The government's increase in the impact tax at a time when the price of electricity is very low punishes Swedish nuclear power. This leads to an increase in fossil electricity production in our neighbourhood. However, the issue of energy security for our neighbours is at least as serious. With the greatly deteriorating security situation that we have seen in recent years in our neighbourhood, the dependence of our EU friends on Russian gas is very serious. Up to six EU members are completely dependent on Russia for their gas supplies. Several have experienced political pressure in recent years linked to their energy agreements with Russia. Sweden could export safe electricity to our Baltic neighbours to help them from Russian gas dependence if it were not the case that the government chose instead to dispose of Swedish electricity production. Solidarity with our neighbours is thrown into the trash can. Nor does it help that the European Commission has just taken the initiative for an Energy Union, the purpose of which is, among other things, to make the EU less dependent on Russian gas. The Swedish government turns a deaf ear and continues to preach its mantra of 100 percent renewable for the Swedish part, regardless of what happens in security policy and what happens in the Baltics, as if our Baltic neighbours did not exist and security policy was the same as in the mid-90s. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to say a few words about solar energy. Already Nicolaus Copernicus found that everything revolves around the sun in the 16th century. I believe that many of today's energy challenges, especially at a global level, can be solved by means of the sun. We already know that solar energy has a technical potential of 20 million terawatt hours. Mr President, I would like to It's like a boom. Twenty million terawatt hours correspond to 50 times the world's electricity consumption. Many say: But in Sweden it is dark and cold and we have no potential for solar energy. You in this House do not say that, but there is widespread public belief that this is the case. But we know that if 25 per cent of all suitable roofs in Sweden were to be clad with solar panels, we could reach 10 per cent of electricity production with the help of the sun. It's kind of exciting numbers. It is therefore a pity that the government is introducing a solar tax on this type of large-scale production of solar electricity. I think it sends the wrong signal at a stage where many public roofers have finally decided to invest in the sun. It's been a while before people realize you can bet on solar panels. We know that Huddinge Hospital planned for solar panels, but with the new tax you will probably have to scrap those plans. It is quite the wrong principle to tax self-produced electricity. You can compare it with taxing home-baked bread or perhaps the children's homemade Christmas candy. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to return to the energy policy objectives that the Liberals believe in. The focus should be on the climate, which is our first priority, as well as on security of supply and energy security. In this way, we get a well-functioning energy policy that does not stop at our own navel, at Sweden's borders, but can ensure that the climate challenges can also be solved by our neighbours.
i-92919def8f4ff654-1064	Mr President, I would like to Maria Weimer said that the government has a strict Swedish perspective, which surprised me. We are currently in the final negotiations of the climate summit in Paris, where Sweden, in this budget presented by the government, is investing SEK 500 million in the UN's green fund, which is a key to global climate action. With the Government's initiative, Sweden is the world's largest provider of climate aid per capita. We have a great deal of work and an important role to play in helping with global climate action. Maria Weimer and the Liberals speak warmly for nuclear power. I feel that Liberals' commitment to climate issues is never as strong as when using it to argue for more nuclear power. We would have needed that commitment to climate issues when, for example, it was about Sweden wanting to strengthen its position before negotiations on the EU's new climate targets. I would like to ask Maria Weimer whether the impact tax proposed by the Liberals will be completely removed by 2019 and how this will be financed. We can see in the Liberals' draft budget that no energy budget is presented for the last year of the planning period, as all the other parties do in their tables. For the Liberals, there is nothing more than a star in the 2019 budget table. I am interested, and certainly many with me, in what the Liberals' energy budget for 2019 looks like. I can see that it coincides with the fact that the text of bread says that we want to remove the tax on effect. The current effect tax accounts for approximately SEK 5 billion in central government revenue. If a political party proposes that nuclear power be completely tax-free, which costs SEK 5 billion, the question arises: How do the Liberals finance it?
i-92919def8f4ff654-1069	Mr President, I would like to It's nice that Lise Nordin wants to rate my commitment to various issues. I myself felt that I raised quite a lot of commitment when I was talking about Copernicus and solar energy. It is certainly the same as what is usually said about our nuclear commitment. What I mentioned about the focus being on Swedish goals concerns mainly the immediate area. This is where we have the opportunity to export our Swedish carbon-free energy, and in this way we can help other countries with their challenges. It has nothing to do with a green climate fund, which is good, and the climate work that we have to do within the framework of aid. As I mentioned in the speech, this concerns Poland and the Baltic countries in particular. There are cables there from Sweden, and we could contribute much more by exporting Swedish electricity and helping with the climate challenge that exists. About 80% of Poland's electricity production comes from coal power, and besides climate problems there are also major health problems. The Baltic countries have a great dependence on Russian gas, and we could also help there. I know from conversations with, for example, the Lithuanian ambassador that they are interested in it. When the government targets energy policy in a completely different direction and chooses to punish nuclear power, that possibility disappears. That is the essence of my criticism that you have a Swedish perspective in this context. The focus is on 100% renewable as quickly as possible instead of seeing the context and helping countries in the neighbourhood with these major challenges. As far as the impact tax is concerned, it is financed. The 5 billion is in our budget. Exactly what it looks like for 2019, I can't answer. But for us it is important to remove the impact tax that exists today precisely because we believe that we should preserve the existing nuclear power. As has been mentioned earlier in the debate, it is a fact that several of the existing, newer reactors may also need to be closed down soon. I would like to hear Lise Nordin's response to how to help the climate in our neighbourhood by punishing even more nuclear reactors.
i-92919def8f4ff654-1075	Mr President, I would like to In their budget, the Liberals have prioritised removing the impact tax and more taxes on nuclear energy. It costs SEK 5 billion. That is more than the overall climate budget. So the climate budget is historically large. I want everyone to understand the proportions. If you prioritise tax-free nuclear power, you have SEK 5 billion less to invest in technology development of, for example, solar energy, electric buses, energy efficiency – all important investments. It is important that the Liberals present their budget for 2019. During my years in Parliament, I have never experienced a party not reporting its budget for a year. I am surprised to see a star in the budget table for the Liberals' budget in 2019. It needs to be clarified how they finance the removal of the impact tax. It's about prioritising. Politics is about choosing. Then the government does not choose to make such a large tax subsidy, but instead chooses to spend the money on many other things. As far as Maria Weimer's question of electricity exports is concerned, I see that Sweden has a very important role to play in helping our neighbours and the whole world reduce their emissions by developing technology. It is above all renewable energy technologies that are in demand and that we can develop. I also welcome further exports from Sweden. But I do not see it as an alternative that we should keep nuclear power under our arms when it is not profitable or safe for us to export that electricity. I see great potential in the figures we politicians have at our disposal from, among other things, the Swedish Energy Agency. We will continue to export electricity and thus make a climate effort with our neighbours. But we are gradually starting to switch from nuclear power that is getting old to renewable electricity generation that we are expanding and exporting to our neighbouring countries. The biggest challenge is, above all, how to build more electricity grids. I welcome the fact that the European Commission is now working on a policy to link more countries together. It is also an opportunity for more renewable energy when we connect and cooperate.
i-92919def8f4ff654-1081	Mr President, I would like to It's nice that Lise Nordin is involved in our budget. As I said, the removal of the impact tax that we advocate is 100% funded at all stages. If there is an asterisk or another table that is not made clear, I can absolutely make it clear to Lise Nordin. What is interesting to discuss is the impact tax itself, to discuss the effect it has had and what effect it may have in the future. We are receiving clear signals from the power companies that they already believe, at the current level, that the remaining reactors are under threat. Then we will have a completely different situation, before we have any solutions to the future problems, before we have any solution to the storage issue that is even later on. It is easy to avoid the big issue, that is, what responsibility the Green Party is prepared to take for the decision and the effects that may come out of it in the coming years. It is clear that this has been the will and policy of the Green Party, even if they now pretend that it is the market that has contributed to this or that it is a question of profitability. It is a clear political message, perhaps not in a governmental context, but in other contexts, such as websites and leaflets, they rejoice and propagate the decision. It would be interesting to hear Lise Nordin talk about the effects of the impact tax and what the continued effect of the high tax will be in the future. But it will have to be a rhetorical question because this was my final line.
i-92919def8f4ff654-1086	Mr President, I would like to The liberals seem to have a newly won heat for solar power that they have been a little involved in. I have a few questions about the anti-competitive subsidies they defend. The fundamental concern of the Swedish power system is not to manage the effect during the summer. It is mastering seasonal variations. In Sweden, we have twice as much capacity in terms of the need for summer time, and it is much more difficult winter time. It's during the colder six months there's trouble in mastering the situation. Already during the previous summer we could see down-regulations in the power stations in Sweden. They had too much effect in the system and couldn't get rid of it. In order to ensure that the price did not go below zero, the effect was switched off and reduced. Large-scale investment in solar power will exacerbate this problem for those producers who are dependent on being able to produce even in the summer. This applies, for example, to wind power, nuclear power and hydroelectric power. I would like to talk more to Maria Weimer about security of supply and the balance of effects. With how much do the Liberals believe that solar power could contribute to the power balance in winter when we have it most difficult and delivery reliability is crucial?
i-92919def8f4ff654-1090	Mr President, I would like to How nice for once to discuss solar energy! Our proposal does not aim at 100% electricity production of solar energy in particular. So the balance of effects is that we can solve with the combination that we believe in. There nuclear power plays an important role as a base power. We believe that our proposal to abolish the power tax can preserve existing nuclear power for the long life it has left. Hydropower also plays an important role. As we all know, it has an important regulatory function in the energy system today and will perhaps play an even greater role in the future. Then there is also renewable as an important component. We highlight solar power because we think that we don't talk enough about the potential of the sun, in Sweden but perhaps above all globally. That is why I mentioned the global figures of 20 million terawatt hours. The sun is an important part of the solution in Sweden but above all at a global level. In countries that have not developed so far, where there are no expanded lines and power networks, local solar panels and cells will be able to play a hugely important role in electrifying the countries. The answer to the question is simply that we see a whole system that includes other forces that will also be able to contribute to the balance of power.
i-92919def8f4ff654-1096	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats, of course, share Liberals' view of the possibilities and potential of nuclear power. However, the Swedish democrats still do not see why taxpayers should be involved in adding funds, which is what the anti-competitive subsidies to those who are exempted from paying energy taxes that everyone else is obliged to pay indirectly mean, when there is no need and it does not help the system. Why should others be involved in paying? Capacity is still twice as large in summer as needed. Instead, it will make it more difficult for the others and reduce the possibility of constructing wind turbines. It will make it more difficult to keep hydropower and nuclear power profitable. If you press in even more production when there is no demand, you will not be able to cope with the power balance even in winter. Why do the Liberals think it is important to subsidise production because there is no demand? Everyone is free to put solar cells on their roof. The Swedish Democrats have nothing against it. But we see no reason why taxpayers should be involved in subsidising it because there is no need based on the function of the power system for both industry and welfare Sweden. The reasoning about good delivery reliability and the balance of effects is even more remarkable if you are going to invest in something that you do not think will be crucial.
i-92919def8f4ff654-1101	Mr President, I would like to The balance of effects is one of the biggest challenges that we all need to look at. The Energy Commission will also take on it. We believe that all the forces I mentioned can play a role in a future energy system and that we have a sustainable system with our view of how nuclear power and hydropower will be handled in the future. Then renewables can also play an important role. It is a pity not to exploit the potential of solar energy in Sweden as well.
i-92919def8f4ff654-1104	Mr President, I would like to We can all be proud that Sweden is one of the countries in the world that currently has the largest share of renewable energy. We have proven that climate-smart options and solutions can be combined with ambitious economic growth policies. This does not mean that we should not aim for 100% renewable. They talk about the importance of society building on a circular economy, and that basically means 100% renewable in everything. We Christian Democrats have this in our values when we talk about the idea of stewardship, so this is nothing new to us. But the question is, what's the road there? We can see that with the economic situation that has led to low electricity prices, it is not directly profitable for any type of energy today, whether we are talking about nuclear power, wind power or anything else. This is, of course, a huge problem. How do we want renewable society? Then we must ensure that we have a well-being that works and where there are companies and a business community that trusts that there is electricity supply in this country. You should not have to think that this Sweden that you have worked in does not seem safe for our companies. Then they may think it's better to move elsewhere. That would be the worst thing that could happen for Swedish growth. We need all the jobs we can get, and we are highly dependent on export revenues to our common welfare. But it is a question of doing so as wisely as possible. We Christian Democrats are and have been in favour of the fact that, if it had been economically possible, we would have liked it to have come to new nuclear power stations in Sweden. New and safer nuclear reactors could be a prerequisite for Sweden's ability to maintain the competitiveness of the electricity-intensive industry. But as long as we cannot secure nuclear power economically, it is clear that today's electricity generation needs to find other solutions. That's exactly what we're working on in the Energy Commission. That's the mission we've been given. We will look at the future supply of electricity in the country. We simply need to find opportunities to put everything on the table, all the energy types side by side, to see how to come up with the best solutions, the best technology and eventually get some kind of economy in it. I would therefore like to point out that I am not at all so sure that there will be a surplus of electricity in the future, not as it seems right now. During the seminars and meetings that we have attended – all of them in this Assembly anyway – it has been said that there is a surplus of electricity generation in Sweden today, and that naturally affects electricity prices. Sure, we can agree on that, but for how long? What types of energy should we continue to use to ensure that we have a surplus? With today's tax and subsidy policy from the government, we can see that there will be no expansion of nuclear power. Nor will there be any continuation of the nuclear power that we had said would exist for a few more years. So it will be terminated prematurely. It affects jobs and, of course, electricity supply. I believe that we do not have enough renewable energy sources that could match nuclear energy. There is also a discussion on this with hydropower. We Christian Democrats believe that it would be possible to make more of the hydropower that we have. We would like an inquiry to be set up if this is not possible within the framework of the Energy Commission. Then we would particularly like to look at the hydropower to see what we can do with it, not to expand rivers and destroy nature – whatever the environmentalists would object – but simply do so in the smartest way possible so that we can use the resources that Sweden offers. My colleague from the Center, Rickard Nordin, mentioned this with small hydropower. Only a few weeks ago we had a seminar here in Parliament on this. Clearly, it is extremely distressing that you cannot have your own production in your waterworks. In some cases, it is also an activity that has existed for a couple of hundred years. How is it possible that this is so dangerous and so terrible? We must look at the possibilities for rural areas to continue to live, develop and produce their own electricity, for safety purposes, but above all in order to contribute to their own electricity supply in the environment in which they are located. Mr President, I would like to I would like to conclude by referring to the energy movement that the Christian Democrats have brought about. I am sorry that my fellow Member from the Moderates, Cecilie Tenfj word-toftby, will leave our committee, but we will certainly have a good replacement in due course.
i-2hzUDHkbT9XgDpztYMwn8c	Mr President, I would like to Today, therefore, we are debating the Committee on Economic Affairs' report 3 on 2015/16 which deals with the Government's proposals in the budget pro posal for Category 21 Energy, as well as 15 requests for exercise from the general period of exercise. I would now like to support the committee's proposal in the report and reject all the motions. Mr President, I would like to As has been mentioned earlier, energy policy is one of the foundations, an important cornerstone of modern society. This becomes particularly clear when and if we limit the conversation to the part of energy policy we are most often talking about in these contexts, namely electricity. In brackets, I will devote the bulk of my speech to discussing precisely electricity and related issues. In various ways this has been expressed over a long period of years, in a sometimes rather harsh and polarised climate of debate. I'm sure there's a lot of reasons for that. On the one hand, there are undoubtedly strong views on the substance of the matter and quite different convictions as to which way forward is the best. It is opinions and beliefs that are strengthened and confirmed by a wide range of experts, experts who often have diametrically different views on the subject. But also the fact that many of us in Sweden have experienced that we have had quite a lot of time to take a stand and plenty of time to decide the route. As a result, this area has been perceived as relatively harmless and perhaps particularly suited to political struggle and rhetoric. I hope that that time is now over and that we will have more constructive talks about future energy policy. We need it, and I was going to say a little bit about it at the end of the speech. Today's modern society is very clearly highly dependent on energy, not least electricity. The Sweden we live in today is more dependent on electricity than it has ever been. This is probably true for almost all parts of society. For large volumes of Swedish industry, a secure supply of electricity at a competitive price is a prerequisite for it to continue to be visible and compete on the world market. Similarly, public sector activities are largely more dependent on electricity than ever before. This is particularly true in order to cope with modern IT systems and communication systems and their functioning. But also as individuals, as consumers, we are more dependent on a secure supply of electricity during all hours of the day than we have been at any time before. All of this sets demands and poses challenges for the future. That is why it feels good that the government is raising the issue of energy policy in an offensive way, as is done in the budget proposal. Energy policy requires efforts and decisions in the short term, here and now, in the day-to-day political life and in the longer-term decision-making process. In the 2016 Budget Bill, the Government proposes a series of offensive efforts to develop policy in the near future, for 2016 but also for the period up to primarily 2019. Let me give you a few examples! We increase the grant to the Swedish Energy Agency to give them the opportunity to continue with the important research and development assignments they have. We increase efforts for energy efficiency and invest in local energy and climate advice. We are investing in energy research and spending over 1.3 billion on this in this budget. We provide support for the introduction of wind power. Not least, we are making a proper investment in solar cells that provide consumers, manufacturers and distributors with reasonable time conditions. Mr President, I would like to An important condition for all to have access to electricity is that it can be distributed from the place where it is produced to the place where it is to be consumed. In these contexts, electricity networks and their quality and capacity are crucial. Time does not allow any longer outlays on the electricity grids in today's debate, but I would nevertheless like to point out the extremely important and great effort that exists in this report and in the budget proposal and that is being made in the form of the Swedish power grid investment plan. SEK 3.4 billion for 2016 and just over SEK 11 1⁄2 billion for the period 2016 – 2018 give a clear and important signal of the extent of investment needs in this area. We have reason to return to the electricity grids and their importance in future debates. Mr President, I would like to Here in the Swedish Parliament there is, after all, a rather broad consensus that energy policy must be based on the cornerstones that several of the previous speakers have highlighted: security of supply, competitiveness and ecological sustainability. We Social Democrats also clearly see the need for Sweden to be able to have an energy system with 100% renewable energy in the long term. We see it as a prerequisite for the construction of a good and sustainable society. It is gratifying to hear that more parties share the view that the target is 100% renewable energy. For this to become a reality, energy policy requires, as far as possible, long-term rules of play. As many have mentioned in the debate here this evening, electricity prices are at present historically low, consumer-friendlyly low, at least in a short and medium-term perspective. It also means that more and more people are beginning to talk about the fact that perhaps we need to discuss a fourth cornerstone of energy policy, namely the willingness to invest or investment conditions. In contrast to what some have said, Sweden's energy policy is also characterised by an increasing international dependence. The conditions for shaping future policy in this area are becoming increasingly dependent on our environment and less and less national. With this in mind, the Government has appointed the Energy Commission. The Energy Commission's mandate under the Directive is to provide a basis for a broad agreement on energy policy with a particular focus on the conditions for electricity supply after 2025 – 2030. For this and for the longer term energy policy, we have reason to come back many times in this House. Until then, we have to work on energy issues with the current budget proposal as an excellent foundation. Once again, I call for the report to be approved and for all motions to be rejected.
i-92919def8f4ff654-1138	Mr President, I would like to One of the biggest challenges we have on the energy side is how to switch our transport sector to more renewable. The Center Party and the Alliance far surpassed the objectives set by the Riksdag, but since this government took office it has been quite good news. We are still waiting to hear about any tax exemption for biofuels. But above all, the government lowers the entire Swedish ethanol investment with its clumsy tax-elevator policy. There was a not so desired Christmas present already on 1 December from the government, and there will be another tax shock on 1 January. Today, ethanol and diesel cost roughly the same at the pump, and petrol is only a fifty - ear more expensive. But then ethanol also draws 30 percent more because of the lower energy content. Anyone can then calculate that the government's tax increases are a Jew's kiss. This is the end of the Swedish ethanol initiative. The volumes produced in Sweden will be exported to other countries instead. There will be no ethanol in the Swedish passenger car fleet. It will have done its thing. I find that sad, as the Swedish ethanol is one of the best fuels we have to drive our cars with. Why is the government acting in this way, Ingemar Nilsson? And what will be done to continue the transition in the transport sector now that ethanol is removed from the calculation?
i-92919def8f4ff654-1142	Mr President, I would like to I thank Rickard Nordin for the questions. It is quite clear that Rickard Nordin has a foot in the Environmental Objectives Committee and one foot in the Environment and Agriculture Committee, where many of these issues are discussed. I have great respect for that. But it is quite clear at Rickard Nordin that there is a certain difference between being in the majority and being in opposition. During the time when Rickard Nordin and his party were in the majority position in the Swedish parliament, they experienced the difficulty of dealing with these issues. On two occasions the then alliance government tried to introduce a system of obligations, but it had to back down all the way because it was not possible. Rickard Nordin knows very well that the main reason for the proposals made by the current government is EU rules and the EU's view on the issue of alternative fuels. We have a tax problem that is well-known, and instead of trying to make it a domestic spolemic, it would be better if we made joint efforts to influence it at European level. This is not an issue that we decide for ourselves, and Rickard Nordin knows it very well. My answer is that this is not primarily a question to be discussed in this House, but first and foremost an issue to influence at European level.
i-92919def8f4ff654-1145	Mr President, I would like to Ingemar Nilsson is right that this is largely due to the EU acquis, which should be changed. But not doing what you can in existing regulations is nothing but misconduct. Ingemar Nilsson talks about the EU's overcompensation rules. It is usually a pervasive theme to blame the EU when it is unable to deal with its own policies. The truth is, the ethanol isn't overcompensated. Look at the pump! That's 50 öre's difference. It should be 4 crowns if the ethanol is overcompensated. If something is overcompensated at present with government policy, it is fossil fuels. The error lies in the government's calculation methods. You look back to steer forward. It worked very well when we were in government with an increasing oil price. It even benefited renewables. There was a reason why we had those calculation methods. But now the price of oil is falling like a stone, and instead of changing its calculation methods, the government chooses to stick its head in the sand and throw ethanol overboard. Of course we are going to change at European level. There is an incredible amount that we should change at European level in terms of overcompensation rules, state aid rules, renewables directives and other major obstacles, not least to the obligation that Ingemar Nilsson mentioned. But not doing what you can within the regulatory framework that exists, when the industry also has solutions for how to do that the government has not taken on board, is nothing more than bad governance and poor environmental policy. The government should take this on board and change the calculation methods, because that is actually something you can control on your own.
i-92919def8f4ff654-1149	Mr President, I would like to I'm sure there are some things we can do at home, as Rickard Nordin says. But I think that we must start at the right end, and the right end is in this case to ensure that there are reasonable and equal conditions of competition for various alternative fuels. There are no conditions for this if we do not resolve it first and foremost at European level. I see, like Rickard Nordin, great opportunities for development, not least for the Swedish forest industry, in the production of alternative fuels. However, in order to be able to do so and to provide the industry with reasonable conditions, we need to know that there are long-term rules of the game, and this requires that we have a change in the EU's view of Swedish forestry and forestry policy. If you do not understand the circular Swedish forestry policy, we will never get acceptance to provide reasonable conditions for the alternative fuels to be developed using the forest as a raw material. That's the harsh truth. That is why we must start at European level and not start at the wrong end.
i-92919def8f4ff654-1151	Mr President, I would like to The year is 2011. Stefan Löfven is Chairman of IF Metall. The President of the Union, Mr Löfven, is committed to nuclear power. He calls it blue-eyed to consider that nuclear power could be shut down without consequences for the climate or that Sweden suffers from a shortage of electricity. The year is 2015. Promises lead a government with the Green Party and are in the process of contributing to the closure of nuclear power. Before that we saw a little wobbly and hesitated in the election debate, with red and green cards all over each other. Or was it green and red cards? No one knows, least of all the current Prime Minister of Sweden. It is very worrying that the Social Democrats are taking the wrong path for Sweden's future energy supply. We are now facing a situation where we have six reactors left of the twelve built in Sweden. Half of the Swedish nuclear power stock has thus been shut down for political reasons, by the Social Democrats as a concession to the Green Party. We know that electricity prices are historically low and are likely to remain so for at least a few years to come. We also know that the remaining nuclear power is booming under the current impact tax. Liberals are the only party in the Swedish parliament that advocates the complete abolition of the impact tax. We do this because we see signals from the power companies, and those signals are clear. If the power tax is not reduced or removed, more reactors will soon have to be shut down. My question to the Social Democrats and Ingemar Nilsson is simple: how many more reactors are you prepared to sacrifice before you will remove the power tax?
i-92919def8f4ff654-1157	Mr President, I would like to I thank Maria Weimer for the question. She began rhetorically by stating that the current Prime Minister Stefan Löfven was chairman of IF Metall 2011 and that he then had a view on the matter. Then she suggests that he as Prime Minister has another in 2015. I could travester it and say that the price of electricity was very high in 2011 and is very low in 2015. Normally it is the Liberals' parade to celebrate the market economy, but this shows what happens when the market works. The truth is that the supply of electricity is considerably greater than demand, not just from a Swedish perspective and in a Swedish context. The truth is that prices are historically low because demand has decreased for various reasons. Demand has fallen as a result of a financial crisis that has prevented a large part of European industry from recovering and from consuming at the same level. Demand has also declined due to energy efficiency improvements both in industry and on the consumer side. This means that the price of electricity is so extremely low that there is really no type of production that bears its own costs at the moment. The question is: What is the alternative? Is it that we should have cyclically based taxes? It is probably an option for the Liberals because the then alliance government raised the impact tax quite sharply a number of years ago. Whether it was for fiscal reasons or not does not tell the story. At least I don't know why. However, it is clear that what determines the competitiveness of nuclear energy, in this case, is the market price of electricity, and it is historically low. As a social democrat, I cannot see it as a failure, because we have been fairly agreed that we should have a liberalised electricity market in Sweden.
i-92919def8f4ff654-1164	Mr President, I would like to It is no surprise that the price of electricity is low. The government knew this when it chose to increase the tax; it was the conditions that existed. Despite this and despite the warnings we all received from the power companies last winter, it was still decided to increase the power tax. One alternative would have been to leave it at the level it was or to lower it. You like to talk about the market. Ingemar Nilsson talks about cyclical taxes. But it is a highly political decision to increase the power tax, and it has contributed to the closure of reactors. I think talking about the market is misleading in this context. What is interesting is that there is a dividing line between the Social Democrats and the Green Party. The Social Democrats do not recognise that it was a political expression of will to close the reactors, but from the Green Party we have received many different signals that it was a clear political line that they wanted to close as many reactors as possible. I have also received various arguments from the Minister for Energy for why they chose to increase the impact tax. On one occasion in the Committee on Economic Affairs we were told that it was a purely fiscal decision. Another time in the Energy Commission we were told that it was fair; hydropower had high taxes, and so nuclear power would also be taxed more. It is therefore unclear to us what the decision is based on and how it has been arrived at. I repeat the question I asked just now and to which I would like an answer: how many more reactors are you prepared to sacrifice before you will remove or reduce the power tax, Ingemar Nilsson?
i-92919def8f4ff654-1169	Mr President, I would like to We have confessed in the Social Democrats and agreed that we have a liberalised electricity market in Sweden. We did it ourselves in the mid-1990s. This is part of the consequence. When profitability is low, some forces will find it more difficult than others to survive in competition. We do not intend to phase out what is not liberalised today. There's no reason. We have no objective of reducing the number of nuclear reactors in terms of reducing production. I haven't heard anyone pronounce it. However, I believe – without knowing – that the Ministry of Finance's main reason for raising or adjusting a tax is usually fiscal in nature, i.e. you need revenue. There is no doubt that there was a considerable hole to fill when we took over government power, because of the tax cuts that the alliance government had carried out. The budget deficit was EUR 75 billion and a number of revenue reinforcements are needed in the state budget. The estimated tax revenue of the increase is, of course, a contribution to strengthening the state's finances, in order to carry out other important investments that we need to make.
i-92919def8f4ff654-1174	Mr President, I would like to I choose to follow up my colleague Maria Weimer's questions to Ingemar Nilsson. I'm going to put it another way and maybe we can get a better answer. Nuclear power accounts for about 40% of our electricity production. It is now planned to close four out of ten reactors by 2020. We can probably handle that. But there are warnings from the industry that further reactors are at risk of being shut down by 2020. We are facing a chaotic situation. We get an uncontrolled decommissioning of nuclear power, which would not benefit Swedish industry, Swedish competitiveness or Swedish households. In the long run, it would not benefit the transition to a renewable energy system, as the Social Democrats say they want. Tax revenues would be radically lower because industry is likely to move out, jobs disappear and we do not have enough electricity in the system today. Low electricity prices have been raised here, and Ingemar Nilsson says that we have a market-based system. We have a highly manipulated energy market today, with green electricity certificates and an extremely high tax burden on both water power and nuclear power. I therefore wonder: is Ingemar Nilsson, in order to avoid a chaotic decommissioning of Swedish nuclear power, willing to give nuclear power the conditions it needs to be able to produce electricity throughout its lifetime, so that we get controlled nuclear decommissioning? Are Ingemar Nilsson and the Social Democrats prepared to lower the impact tax on nuclear power in order to avoid chaos and get controlled decommissioning on the road to a 100% renewable system?
i-92919def8f4ff654-1181	Mr President, I would like to There are a little different proposals from different bourgeois parties in this regard. There is a fairly clear difference between at least three of the parties. I do not remember exactly, but I believe that Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby's party has proposed that parts of the impact tax should be abolished. We will not propose any change in that respect. I would like to remind you of what industry representatives have said and of the reactions that the increase in the impact tax has had on the electricity market. The effect was a price increase of about 1 øre when the impact of the electricity market on the electricity market was assessed up to 2020 – 1 øre! It does not determine the viability of nuclear power, but nuclear power has to cope with completely different merits. Adjusting the impact tax would not affect one thing in this case. If we were to reduce by as much as it increased, the profitability of current nuclear power would still be negative. Nuclear power has completely different cost problems. It must, of course, take care of the consequences of the increased security measures that will be required as a result of Fukushima. It is a greater concern in terms of costs according to the calculations that the industry itself shows. To think that a reduction, in whole or in part, of the impact tax would save nuclear power is a completely wrong way of reasoning. We do not intend to make any changes in this respect. Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby mentions a few other things. Green electricity certificates, as you describe it, appear to be some kind of manipulation of the market. It has been hailed by everyone in the past as the most market-oriented system for bringing new production into the market. How can it suddenly be something that manipulates the market? I don't really recognize the choice of words.
i-92919def8f4ff654-1188	Mr President, I would like to I take it that Ingemar Nilsson does not see the challenges facing the nuclear industry. Today we had a meeting with representatives of the energy industry in Sweden. They were very clear. They are, as Ingemar Nilsson said, facing security investments of around 1.5 billion, independent meltdown measures. One cent was the last raise. My question to Ingemar Nilsson, which I choose to repeat, is: If we are now faced with a chaotic, uncontrolled decommissioning of our nuclear reactors before 2020, where we are risking a 40% loss of electricity in the Swedish system, which cannot be compensated by the increase in the electricity certification system, then Ingemar Nilsson and the Social Democrats are willing and prepared to save Swedish competitiveness, save Swedish electricity supply and save Swedish tax revenues by reducing not by 1 øre but by reducing more or – as Maria Weimer from the Liberals said – removing the impact tax on nuclear power in order to have controlled decommissioning, in order for our nuclear reactors to be able to produce throughout their lifetime and in order to be able to convert to 100% renewable? Are the Social Democrats willing to reduce the impact tax on nuclear power, or are the Social Democrats prepared to sacrifice 40% of our electricity production and, together with that, sacrifice Swedish competitiveness, industry and the Swedish jobs?
i-92919def8f4ff654-1191	Mr President, I would like to It's a little bit of the wolf-come-congruent about that way of reasoning. If the effect tax was or was not to determine the Swedish energy policy and its future, I believe that Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby overestimates the importance of the impact tax – it is not that great. The interesting thing is that the industry, when I meet with representatives of it, says that the impact tax is a problem but that they have other concerns. What they keep coming back to is that unless low electricity prices change, unless conditions change in the market, then they have no chance of competing. The type of production that nuclear power constitutes will not be able to compete at all. Of course, capital-intensive activities that have invested over time have significant problems. You mentioned the tax on hydropower yourself. Yes, it's a pretty fiscal tax that was raised quite sharply during the time of the alliance government. I do not think that we can have a tax system that will constantly flow like a cork on what the economy looks like. But we are both sitting in the Energy Commission – and that is a good thing – and we have reason to come back to that discussion, because I think we need to see this as a whole and not now break out a single issue, that is, the impact tax on nuclear power, as the issue that is going to determine Swedish energy policy. That is not the case, and that will not be the case. You know very well, Cecilie. I look forward with satisfaction to the continued discussions within the framework of the Energy Commission. That is where we share the task of solving the long-term issues of Swedish energy policy. I also believe that we will succeed in this, when we have toneed down the debater a little to a more constructive discussion. I know you can contribute, and I think you will, too.
i-92919def8f4ff654-1196	Mr President, I would like to The final negotiations are currently under way at the climate summit in Paris. There, Sweden's Minister for Environment and Climate Change Åsa Romson has important positions to negotiate when it comes to climate adaptation and financing. The signals at the moment, during this debate, are very hopeful that a rather ambitious agreement is being reached. We are following developments with great interest. The climate threat is global, but all emissions occur locally somewhere in a country, region or municipality. Sweden has in the negotiations in Paris right now brought with it the biggest climate investment ever in a Swedish budget. That is SEK 4.5 billion for next year. The government states that the climate is the destiny of our time. I am proud that the Green Party, together with the Social Democrats and the Left Party, is presenting a budget with great energy investment. Much has happened in the past year to bring Sweden closer to a sustainable energy system. The Government's budget for Category 21, Energy, will be invested for next year SEK 2.8 billion and a total of SEK 10.8 billion for the period. The government has adopted the target of 100% renewable energy. As a direct result of that decision, Sweden rose in global ranking over countries' attractiveness for investments in renewable energy. Large investments are now being made in solar energy. The budget allocates SEK 1.4 billion during the term of office for PV investments. The grant will already be increased from SEK 50 million to SEK 225 million next year, after which there will be a total of SEK 390 million per year for solar investments. Many individuals, municipalities and companies have applied for funds from that money, and a long queue was created during the time of the alliance government. The county administrative boards now have applications for approximately SEK 600 million. All of them will now be paid out within two years. When solar energy starts to grow on a large scale, EU state aid rules arise, the question of how large a plant can be built without paying taxes. If no regulation is made, companies risk being liable for repayment. It is a risk that the Green Party does not want to expose them to. After hard work, we managed to raise the level from 144 kilowatts to 255 kilowatts. All production up to 255 kilowatts is therefore tax-free. One improvement that has been made compared to previous systems is that everyone is now exempt up to 255 kilowatts, even if one would sell 1 kilowatt or more above it. In the past, if you had a surplus more than your own production, you were taxed for the entire production. But there is still one important issue to be resolved. This is about those who own several facilities. It would be better if the tax were to apply per installation and not per legal person. The government now announces in the budget that it will look at how tax benefits can be gained for those who own several plants. The Government has recently commissioned the Swedish Energy Agency to develop a proposal for a strategy for solar energy. This is the first time that Sweden will have a strategy for solar energy. The aim is to increase the use of solar electricity. It is important now to take a concerted approach to create good conditions for the continued development of solar energy. Wind power has grown strongly for a long time and today supplies about 10 per cent of our electricity supply. Ocean-based wind power is a newer technology that is now a little more expensive than land-based wind power. We need both. Building offshore wind power can have many important functions. It can be built on a large scale and in southern Sweden it is connected to the core network where existing nuclear power is located. The offshore wind is more even, and offshore wind power can produce with higher power and help in terms of future power. It is very positive that the government has expressed ambitions for developing offshore wind power and that the Swedish Energy Agency has now been commissioned to develop a proposal for how Sweden could also support the new technology. It will now be a matter for all parties in Parliament who support the agency's proposal to invest in offshore wind power. I hope that we can get a turnout in Parliament and a parliamentary majority to invest in offshore wind power. Mr President, I would like to Another important issue in the budget is the investment in battery technology. The technical capacity to store energy is rapidly evolving, while costs are falling. In a smart and modern energy system, with a growing share of solar and wind power, battery technology can play an important role. Next year, the Government will allocate SEK 25 million and thereafter SEK 50 million per year to develop this technology. Now the technology has come so far that it is time to test it out in real life, in combination with other solutions for companies or households. Sweden has historically lacked strategic work on energy efficiency. This is also an issue where the government has given an important assignment to the Swedish Energy Agency to investigate how Sweden could also use so-called white certificates. It is a system for systematic work on energy efficiency that now exists in half of the EU Member States. The Authority proposes that such a system be introduced in Sweden. It is also said that it depends on the political objective. I hope that we will be able to get a parliamentary majority also to invest in white certificates in Sweden. With the Swedish Green Party in the government, a climate change climate change climate is now being introduced that is accelerating the transition to a sustainable society. By taking responsibility for our climate emissions, we also show leadership for other countries. Climate change helps municipalities and regions to finance important climate investments. It is SEK 600 million per year that is available from now on. The first payments have already been made, and there are major investments in biogas and charging infrastructure for electric vehicles. A review of opposition budgets is a rather sprawling reading with different priorities. But they have in common that it is about less money and reduced ambitions. The Center Party has more money next year, but overall during the period they also make a substantial cut. Mr President, I would like to Finally, a large majority of the Swedish people want 100% renewable energy. This was presented in a recent survey from Sifo. 68 per cent want Sweden to switch to using renewable energy as soon as possible. I am very pleased that in this House there are now five parties that are basing themselves on the ambition of 100% renewable energy. Sweden has great opportunities. Let's take care of them. Mr President, I would like to I call for the committee's proposal in the report to be approved in accordance with the budget proposal.
i-92919def8f4ff654-1214	Mr President, I would like to On the Green Party's website, under the heading of economics and taxes, you can read the following: The Green Party's principle is simple. Taxes should be increased on what pollutes the environment and lowered on what is good for the environment and creates new jobs. Yet I think the Green Party has missed something here. Taxes are being increased on what is good for the environment, and taxes are being increased on jobs and entrepreneurship. The green tax shift became a red tax shock. Only in terms of renewables in the government budget can we sum up half a billion in tax increases. Then we have not even talked about the tax on jobs and entrepreneurship. How crazy the government and the Green Party have reasoned becomes clear when a company or a major housing association that wants to put solar panels on its roof and reduce their need for purchased energy now will estimate for its use, even though they produce for their own use. What will be the next step for the Green Party and Lise Nordin? Is it a tax for the energy-efficient? That's what it looks like for the grid with solar panels. Or is it a bicycle tax for those who take their bike to work and thus do not pay petrol tax as if you had taken the car? No, the sun tax is and remains wrong. Environmental performance should be encouraged and not taxed. We are seeing a revolution in the electricity market right now. Small-scale can compete with large-scale, and it rocks energy giants. It is a development that clearly frightens this government as it now tries to tax renewable energy off to save old business models. Reports from lobby organisations that frighten the EU are used as arguments. The truth is, however, that there is no basis for the EU to have its views on this. The EU has not even examined Sweden in this area. Is the Green Party actually prepared to admit this mistake and withdraw the solar tax? And is the Green Party also prepared to honour its own principle of green tax exchange, a principle which we in the Center Party share and which we actually also implement in our budget, unlike what the Green Party does in its budget?
i-92919def8f4ff654-1221	Mr President, I would like to The Center Party sat for eight years in a government that greatly reduced the tax burden overall but did not make any improvements that increased the tax burden on what is bad for the environment. This government has finally achieved an increase in the CO2 tax which leads us to comply with the polluter pays principle. The talk about green tax shifting will not be very much worth if you are not also prepared to increase environmental taxes. When it comes to this and when this government has come forward with a proposal to increase the CO2 tax, the Center Party has unfortunately devoted its space and time to criticising this increase. We need more people who stand up for the polluter pays principle. It seems that the Center Party has some sort of conspiracy theory about EU state aid rules. It was in a report produced by the Alliance Government that the first time it was established – I think it was in 2013 – that the EU, with its current regulatory framework, has difficulties in approving a tax exemption when large-scale renewable plants are being built. I am happy to show Rickard Nordin the investigation where it was pointed out that Sweden needs to make some kind of adjustment in this context so that it does not conflict with the state aid rules, which in turn would make companies repayable. It is very easy to say in opposition that this should be fixed. But if you sit in the government, you have to take responsibility, and I do not want to put these companies at risk of being repayable. That is why an adjustment is now being made which I think is necessary and sensible as it has now been designed. That is the adjustment that I mentioned in my speech and which needs to be reviewed, namely how the owner of several plants can benefit from taxation. In this debate, the Center Party has expressed many ideas on how to promote small-scale solar electricity. But I cannot see that these proposals were implemented before we entered the government. Now there's a lot going on. There are some things left to work with, but in general we now have much better conditions for solar electricity in Sweden than we had before the election a year and a half ago.
i-92919def8f4ff654-1229	Mr President, I would like to This is not a conspiracy, Lise Nordin. It's simple logic and actually sometimes quite simple law. If, for example, the paragraphs of the Energy Tax Act were to be changed to a more principled wording, the economic impact would not be selective, which is one of the criteria for the state aid rules to go ahead. The economic impact would also be rather small if one looked at how it would be done. In fact, no single operator could benefit from the tax exemption. This can hardly be over-exploited either because under the same point there is a rather natural and reasonably low limit to what one can produce and consume. The State aid rules are carefully aligned with thresholds per beneficiary in order not to invoke similar requirements in the case of minor matters. Nor would the economic impact be beneficial to any particular party, which is the third requirement for the application of state aid rules, because all companies, institutions, authorities, certain private individuals and what I know who want to produce and consume on the same point could do so. All three of these arguments stand on their own feet, which proves that the exemption for solar electricity is not State aid. Moreover, an operator wishing to notify breaches of State aid rules must be able to demonstrate that the aid has already amounted to substantial amounts per beneficiary and demonstrate credible evidence of this. There is no such thing. There is therefore no reasonable opportunity for anyone to do so, at least in the next few years. Once there is a large-scale expansion, we will have to change our tax rules. But there we are not today, Lise Nordin. Therefore, there is also no conspiracy other than possibly with the heavy lobby organisations that have also lobbied very hard on the government and who are very concerned about the development of their business models that stand on their old legs. Once again, stop blaming the EU, because it has not been there and has done so. This has only been done by its own government, and then it has done the wrong thing. That's why it's time to redo and do the right thing.
i-92919def8f4ff654-1237	Mr President, I would like to I wonder which lobbies would have affected the government. I have attended many meetings with tax lawyers who have looked at this issue. It is very important, and that is why we need to work with it seriously and find wise solutions. I believe, as I said, that it was in 2013 that the Alliance Government received the investigation that pointed out that the EU and state aid rules do not seem to be compatible with the tax exemption that we have for large plants in Sweden. That is why we need to find a smart and long-term solution. I spend my time finding wise solutions instead of spreading ideas that there are lobby organisations that would influence this issue. The concrete change that the government has now announced to look at is how it can benefit those who own several plants, for example by moving the tax. It is therefore a question of how the tax is calculated. Today, it is calculated per legal person, which makes it difficult for the owner of many plants – a municipality or a company, rather than per plant. Here we are looking for smart solutions that benefit Sweden and enable us to expand more solar energy. More serious work and less populism are needed on this issue. Sweden has very good conditions for solar energy, and much happens. The government is clearly taking the solar energy issue very seriously with the greatest investment in investment aid for solar energy in history and with the agency now being given the task of taking a concerted approach. These issues are too important for us to stand here and argue about details. I hope that when the Energy Agency will present its proposal for a solar energy strategy in the spring, it will look at the whole. How do we create good conditions? There I welcome the Centre Party's commitment to solar energy and hope that in this work we can get a parliamentary majority and broad support to really invest in solar energy. I can see, Mr President, that so far solar energy has not been exploited. Now it's time to do it.
i-92919def8f4ff654-1243	Mr President, I would like to The climate summit is in full swing in P aris. It is probably one of the most important meetings, and I think we are all very hopeful about the results to be achieved. In Sweden today we have hydropower, which is extremely important in our electricity production and also extremely important for having climate-smart and sustainable electricity production. Today, hydropower production faces a wide range of regulatory and regulatory challenges. We have the Water Directive – or the Framework Water Directive, depending on what you call it – and we have a national strategy that has a somewhat unclear status. We have the environmental code, and we have the Waterworks investigation. We have now received another letter from the two Directors-General Erik Brandsma and Björn Risinger about how they want to deal with the challenges. We will of course have a hydropower business in Sweden that is also environmentally sustainable. The problem today, if we all agree here that the climate challenge is one of our greatest, is that we have an environmental code that does not take into account the climate impact. My question to Lise Nordin is quite simple. Will Lise Nordin and the Environmental Party work to ensure that the climate perspective is given a clear and strong position in the Swedish environmental code?
i-92919def8f4ff654-1246	Mr President, I would like to It was an important issue, but I would say that it is very far from a budget debate on energy. The question is not on our committee. I think it is important in principle that the climate issue should also be weighed against other environmental interests – of course. I note that few of our 16 national environmental objectives are achieved. Above all, I am concerned that different environmental objectives are being set against each other. My ambition is that Sweden should be able to reach 100 percent of renewable energy in a sustainable way, and that means all aspects. So I do not have that answer here and now, but I am happy to discuss the principles in which climate must of course be an important factor when we discuss hydropower and the issues that are now on the government's table on how to ensure that the values of hydroelectric power production can meet the demands of biodiversity. I think that the conflict that has existed historically is about to pass, and I am very happy about that. The Swedish Energy Agency and the Swedish Maritime and Water Authority have looked closely at this together with the power companies and society's various actors on the issue, and they have now landed in a proposal that was made publicly last week. There we look at how we can cope with environmental measures in hydropower with a maximum of one and a half terawatt hours in power generation. For those who do not usually work with terawatt hours in everyday life, it is about 1 per cent of Sweden's total electricity production. I therefore feel very hopeful that we can find a way forward in which we both allow hydropower to have a good chance of being the important basic power in our electricity generation and can make the environmental adjustments that the European Union, among other things, requires.
i-92919def8f4ff654-1251	Mr President, I would like to I was very concerned for a moment that Lise Nordin did not see the link between hydropower, climate issues and energy production, but she brought it in at the end. Hydropower is one of the most important electricity productions we have, and the state-of-the-art process now facing hydropower will be crucial for how it will develop in the future. I am also very surprised, I have to say, that Lise Nordin – the Green Party's energy spokesperson and a fighter for the climate – cannot clearly say that she will fight for the climate perspective to be written into a modern environmental code. That is very remarkable. Lise Nordin is talking about a conflict that is going away. I wonder who she has met with by the small hydropower producers who are currently facing a new permit process. That's not the picture that reality gives when we meet them. Perhaps it would be good if Lise Nordin took a trip to Essunga Municipality and Nossebro to meet the hydropower producer who sees that his entire life's work is falling apart. It also asks why the climate perspective is not in the Swedish Environmental Code. I asked Minister Åsa Romson a written question. She began the reply by rewriting all the investigations Lise Nordin refers to, and she concluded with: fish migration, the needs of the power system and the protection of cultural environmental interests. There was not a word about the importance of entering climate considerations into the Swedish environmental code. I think it is very remarkable, especially given that the climate conference is now under way and given the climate threat.
i-92919def8f4ff654-1255	Mr President, I would like to Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby asks me if I think climate should be written into the environmental code. When I say that it is not a question for this debate, I get the answer that I am not involved in the climate issue. I think we need some order in the debate. Of course, I say, hydropower, climate and electricity generation are closely linked, but the legal adjustments that may be discussed in the environmental code can be left to a different debate than this one. Cecilie Tenfjord-Toftby also mentions small hydropower. There we have a difficult challenge right now with many people who are having a tough time. The process the county administrative boards in Sweden are currently working on began long before this government took office, and it is a process that is very difficult. We need to see politically how we can solve this in a smarter way. As I mentioned earlier, the two authorities responsible for these issues proposed a concrete way forward last week. Among other things, they look at how to have a fund solution. One of the biggest challenges for those now building small-scale hydropower is the bureaucratic cost of law enforcement, and if they can get help with that test – for example through the fund solution – we have come a long way. However, let us not confuse small-scale and large-scale hydropower! Most of the power production we get from hydro power is from the larger plants. I would say that small-scale hydroelectric power has, above all, a value based on human geography and rural areas, but small-scale hydroelectric power is not the one that accounts for the vast majority of hydropower's 40% of our electricity production. We'll protect the hydroelectric power. The Energy Agency estimates that in the future, despite environmental measures, we will remain at about the same level of production as today. We also see that in the future Swedish hydro power will be demanded as regulatory power from our neighbouring countries. It is therefore a resource we must be very careful about, but let us have a serious discussion about how the 16 national environmental objectives can be met when we build a sustainable energy system! The environmental party's vision is 100% renewable.
i-92919def8f4ff654-1260	Mr President, I would like to Lise Nordin says that climate is the greatest challenge of our time. What we can see in the government budget for this area of expenditure is large subsidies aimed above all at solar power. It is a distortion of competition that eliminates a free and technology-neutral electricity market. It also creates displacement effects on the electricity market, and just as I said in a previous replica shift, we could already this year see that we had to regulate power stations where there is too much power during the summer half-year – the warm half-year – when solar power supplies most energy. This creates a concern in the fact that the profitability of wind power, nuclear power and hydroelectric power is further reduced, which worsens Sweden's situation. It impairs the security of supply and security of supply in Sweden. The Environmental Party has already more or less rejoiced over the closure of nuclear power plants in Sweden, which further worsens Sweden's power balance in the winter. It creates great concern to cope with the impact situation in a satisfactory manner. Instead, we make ourselves dependent on the fossil fuels of our neighbours. On the contrary, we look to increase CO2 emissions with the energy policy we want to pursue. I would like to ask whether it is more important for the Green Party to close down nuclear power plants than to reduce CO2 emissions. What contribution is it thought that solar power will make to the balance of power in our winter supply?
i-92919def8f4ff654-1264	Mr President, I would like to As an environmental party, I can hold two balls in the air at the same time, both a historically large investment in climate action and investments in the target of 100% renewable energy. I see that in the world renewable energy is the fastest being developed. It is also the cheapest one. Anyone with a climate commitment reasonably concludes that the best way to phase out fossil energy is to build renewable energy. It's faster and cheaper. That is my answer to how best we contribute to climate action with our energy policy. I have to say, Mr President, that I am very pleased that the Swedish Democrats are now expressing commitment to climate issues, because they have given quite different answers if they believe in a human climate impact or not. It would be very interesting to get a clear answer to how the Swedish Democrats view the climate issue, because all commitment is needed for those issues. We know today that Swedish nuclear power is getting old. Then we are faced with the path of what to build for something new. The Swedish Democrats tend to recommend that we build new nuclear power in Sweden, the fourth generation even, the most expensive technology and the one that today is quite untested in the world. It is a much more expensive choice than building renewable electricity. Nuclear power built around our neighbours has a cost of about SEK 1 per kilowatt hour. In Sweden we build wind power for 50 øre per kilowatt hour, half the cost. What makes the Swedish Democrats want to build nuclear power that is so much more expensive than if we invest in renewable electricity like solar and wind that together with hydropower can create a fully renewable and stable energy system?
i-92919def8f4ff654-1271	Mr President, I would like to Now the question remained unanswered as to what supplement solar power will have in winter, during the colder half-year, which is still the big challenge in the Swedish power system because in summer time we have no worries about managing our power balance. With regard to the point that the method of nuclear power with faster reactors is untested, it is a little interesting that the first nuclear reactor that has ever produced electricity every fourth generation of nuclear power in the 1950s, so it is fairly proven for a very long time. What has meant that it has not been invested in has been the cost of uranium and that it has been easy to license them with thermal reactors that have been expanded. After all, there is a great potential for efficient management of spent nuclear fuel. Instead of handing over the issue to thousands of generations ahead and allowing them to take responsibility, we have the opportunity to invest more in research to ensure that we can use the remainder of the energy in spent nuclear fuel and, if so, to reduce both the amount of waste and the time it needs to be disposed of. This responsibility, however, is clearly not prepared to be taken by the Green Party, but rather wants to shift it to future generations. As far as the conditions for expansion in Sweden are concerned, subsidies have broken the market as technology neutrality has not been achieved. There are always different drain pipes that target different subsidies against certain power types, which has created this asymmetric market where there are no market conditions for building any power stations. This creates a situation in which CO2 emissions from the Swedish power system will increase when we become dependent on fossil fuels that exist in our neighbouring countries. It will nevertheless be interesting what is most important, to close nuclear power or to reduce CO2 emissions.
i-92919def8f4ff654-1274	Mr President, I would like to I missed the question of sun. I didn't mean to. Of course I'll answer it. No, sun will not have its great contribution in winter. True, the new technology shows that solar energy is produced at most when it is cold. Solar energy usually beats record in Sweden on a cold winter day. It's very inspiring. But above all, sun will have its biggest contribution during the summer months. In Sweden we have hydropower production that works perfectly well as electric power. We have good opportunities, perhaps better than any other country, to store energy. With battery technology, we can store energy daily or weekly. With hydropower, we can store energy seasonally. It is a fantastic opportunity we have to choose both more sun and wind and hydropower. I wonder what the Swedish Democrats are counting on for the price of new nuclear power. It's one thing to have visions, and I respect that. However, when we start discussing the issues we have ahead of us in the near future, we should also respond to what price we are counting on. When the Green Party looks at 100 percent renewable energy, we land in that it is the most cost-effective, best for the environment and safest. If one expresses the vision of new forces, one should reasonably respond to what price one looks at it. With regard to the issue of re-use of waste, about the same number of researchers say that it is not technically possible to reuse nuclear waste in the so-called fourth generation nuclear power. Among other things, SKB with the responsibility of the State says that it is not a technically or economically viable road. My conclusion as an environmental party is that the nuclear waste produced and produced must take long-term responsibility for. We can't sweep that problem under the carpet. Then I think it would also be irresponsible for us to say that we believe that the waste issue might perhaps be resolved in the future if there are perhaps fourth generation nuclear power plants. As Mattias said, the fourth generation of nuclear power has been under discussion since the 1950s, but it has obviously not delivered. Then we need an analysis of why it has not arrived and what we should invest in instead.
i-92919def8f4ff654-1280	Mr President, I would like to The Green Party is usually a champion of renewable energy and solar energy. Right now we see dark clouds in front of the sun; we see the sun's treasure that obscures the sun's rays. In this context, I would like to highlight two issues for which I am concerned. The first is about the signal. We signal that we are taxing solar energy with that proposal – as if solar energy were something harmful. We signal: Be careful and think before installing too many solar panels! One thing that worries me about the solar tax proposal is that only the signals have already done damage. Although the proposal has already been amended, I believe that these signals have already become negative. The second is about the principle that self-production is something to be taxed. When this started coming up, all the red lights should have flashed in the Government Office. Mr President, I would like to I like to bake. I usually bake smudge cake, bread and louse buns like this in Christmastimes. It reminds me a little of the question of self-production and whether one should think of taxing something that is self-produced in the form of bread, for example, because the principle here is that one chooses taxation of self-production. And we must all agree on this principle, of course, is wrong. My question to Lise Nordin is: when will you tax your own production of Christmas candy?
i-92919def8f4ff654-1286	Mr President, I would like to Maria Weimer started by asking me about the signal readings. I believe that there are quite a few in this House, with the debate we have, who have a responsibility for the signals that have been sent to actors interested in solar energy. I believe that this debate is very distorted and that there are many who have a responsibility for the signals that have been sent. If you call the tax adjustment now being made because of the EU state aid rules for the introduction of taxes on renewable electricity, it sends very doubtful signals to the market that I would say are more or less lying. What this proposal is about and which I also discussed with Rickard Nordin just now is a minor tax adjustment for those who produce plants over 255 kilowatt hours and use so much electricity for their own use. According to the Ministry of Finance, approximately ten plants are affected at all in Sweden. Then we should be humbled that we want many more to be built in the future, and that is why we are now looking at the change. But in the question of signal, the question is who is responsible when there are about ten plants in Sweden that are affected by the tax change we are discussing, while at the same time making huge investments in solar energy. We've been talking about investment support here. Perhaps the most important signal is that we are now giving the agency a mission to develop Sweden's first solar strategy that can clearly give a goal and signal to the market about where we are going. The Green Party has for a long time been pushing for a goal in Sweden for self-production. We see a self-worth in that people who own their electricity generation gain more power over their electricity bill, become more aware of their energy use and hopefully become more positive and pressure on politicians when it comes to renewable energy policy – that they get more power simply. I see many self-values with a target for own electricity generation, and I hope that the Liberals also agree with a goal of their own production and solar energy.
i-92919def8f4ff654-1291	Mr President, I would like to The fact is that even the Minister for Energy has suggested that the solar tax proposal might not have been so good, so what we could agree on here is well to jointly try to stop it, simply to remove this tax. It does not sound like the Green Party and Lise Nordin are really so fond of having to defend this proposal, so it is better to do it again and do it right. Mr President, I would like to I would like to take this opportunity to raise another issue. Lise Nordin was talking about lying signals. Then I am interested in some of the wording that we heard in the debate earlier. Lise Nordin says our nuclear reactors are getting old. It is a rhetoric that has also been used by the Minister for Energy when talking about the ageing of nuclear power. Then I am very curious about what you really mean and how honest you are in those signals. Is nuclear energy really ageing? Do you know that nuclear power is younger than the Minister for Energy Baylan himself? The first nuclear power plant was built the same year that Baylan was born in 1972, and the others were built later and are therefore younger than the Minister for Energy himself. Nuclear power is likely to supply electricity longer than the energy minister Baylan continues in working life. We've got at least 30 years left of functioning nuclear reactors if they're not punished before then, of course. Is Baylan aging, too? Should he also be replaced? Stick to the truth about nuclear life!
i-92919def8f4ff654-1297	Mr President, I would like to It is clear that I, as an environmental party, want renewable energy to be as cheap as possible and that, by principle, I do not like any tax on renewable energy. That is absolutely clear, and I wish more people would support it. We must take responsibility for the regulations that exist in the EU and that forced us to make an adjustment. I want to make that effect as small as possible. The first piece of the puzzle was that after much work we managed to raise the level of those affected from 144 to 255 kilowatt hours. As I mentioned earlier in the debate, the Government intends to see how it can benefit those who own several plants by, among other things, shifting the tax. If we can solve this, I do not see any challenges left. The important signal is that it is solved and that there are good conditions for solar energy with all the investments made. As regards the fact that nuclear power is getting old, we know that the reactors we have in Sweden were built with a technical lifetime of 40 years. I note that four out of ten reactors have become 40 years old. You can discuss whether you can extend life expectancy, and I respect that discussion. But it is true that they were built to last 40 years, so everything that is longer than 40 years is in practice a technical life extension, if you like. I do not think it will be age to phase out Sweden's nuclear reactors. I think it will be cost. Now we have very low electricity prices, and a number of nuclear power plants are having difficulties with profitability. It is not because of the impact tax, because it is much smaller than the other economic tools available for nuclear power. Nuclear power has difficulty with profitability. I believe that nuclear power will continue to be phased out in the future because it is unprofitable. Mr President, I would like to At the moment, three of Sweden's nuclear reactors are standing still. This applies, among other things, to Forsmark 3, which may surprise me because it is the newest reactor, if I remember correctly. It is currently standing still due to technical problems. It is quite recurring if you follow the statistics that the Swedish nuclear reactors have technical problems.
i-92919def8f4ff654-1305	Mr President, I would like to What can I say that has not already been said in this debate, I thought as I approached the speaker's chair. Something that has not been mentioned is a referendum on nuclear power, so I can start with that. Energy is a resource that affects us all in one way or another. This report takes the line to point out the overall objective of energy policy. Many see it as a bit strange that decisions are made on energy-related issues while the Energy Commission is working to map out a sustainable and long-term plan, preferably with a broad consensus across party boundaries. But at the same time, hardly everything can stop. The budget proposal shows that the overall objective of energy policy is to secure the supply of electricity and other energy in the short and long term, with competitive conditions compared to neighbouring countries and the EU. For the Left Party, the long-term target for energy supply is 100 per cent renewable energy. As politicians in the forest country of Sweden, one should realise that if any country can fix this it is us. With our expanded rivers and our biomass – it may not have been mentioned – the whole, including the base power, will be able to work out. We shall also succeed in producing energy with a low impact on climate, the environment and public health. In addition, energy policy will contribute to the transition to an ecological and sustainable society. Add targets at EU level, where visions of becoming a world leader in renewable energy are mantras. Here we want to look at how a European Energy Union can make it easier to reach the target of reducing emissions by 80 to 95% by 2050. There is a flora of development if you look at energy, such as smart grids and the power of citizens to influence their costs, perhaps as microproducers. Today, there is not the same possibility for those who live in an apartment as there is for those who own their home. It is usually the case that those who are in the best position can influence their everyday lives. This is obviously true in this case as well. The government has promised to look at the possibility of share-owned schemes for micro-producers of renewable electricity and tax reductions for these. I can't help but draw a parallel to the ROT deduction when I think about how the system is built. Mr President, I would like to Transmission capacity is central to the electricity system. Here, Svenska Kraftnät invests in investments in several stations and lines. It welcomes the Left Party. However, as many of you know, these projects with new lines often drag on due to the Nimby effect. Here we have exercised that this must be resolved in such a way that the state process for such social benefits is given an acceptable proportion and is not drawn out for several years. If you grunt into figures and compare what was the outcome of the Alliance's budget for Category 21 Energy for 2014, it does not differ more than 46 million from what is the government's draft budget for 2016, i.e. the budget supported by the Left Party. The fact that there are differences in where funds are allocated and so on is clear, but in terms of the largest item of expenditure, Energy Research, the differences are almost non-existent. Enough about numbers and back to what I started with about the Energy Commission. I have been privileged to follow and learn for nine months about the challenges and opportunities of the energy sector. Having incorporated the facts into the knowledge-gathering phase, I note that we Members of the Commission have all received the same information. How we will then interpret different signals and where we paint problems and where we see opportunities will be interesting to summarize and work on. I conclude with the hope that we in the Commission will reach a broad political agreement on energy policy. I hope that in a few decades' time our children and grandchildren will be able to see that our wise decisions support a welfare country with a renewable energy sector without either black or brown atoms. Mr President, I would like to I support the committee's proposal and the budget negotiated by the Left Party with the government.
i-92919def8f4ff654-1320	Mr President, I would like to I and Birger Lahti have been in the same debates many times. Recently, it has been a lot about how we can increase the production of biogas. On every occasion, Birger Lahti has raised the problem that it is not profitable to take more biomass out of the forest. This applies not only to biogas but also, for example, to cogeneration. The Left Party seems to forget that, with the budget you support, where a kilometre tax is investigated, the yield of biomass will be reduced even further. Forest research tells us that as much as 10 percent would be unprofitable to pick out. It is hitting biofuels hard and renewables hard. It seems to be a pervasive theme for the budget that Birger Lahti supports to tax everything in sight and everything that moves. Increased environmental taxes usually mean raising taxes on what is bad for the environment, not on what is good for the environment. How does the Left Party intend to achieve the objective that both our parties are behind, that we should have a renewable energy system by 2040, if at the same time you tax renewable electricity and choose to come forward with proposals that threaten up to 10% of biomass in the forest? This is precisely the concern that Birger Lahti usually expresses in the debates in which we have both participated.
i-92919def8f4ff654-1324	Mr President, I would like to Thanks for the question, Rickard Nordin. I remember the discussions when we were talking about spraying in the forest. The industry said: If we are not allowed to spray, these industries will have to shut down, and this will be unprofitable. None of this happened. We're not spraying today. It's a little bit the same thing. I don't think we're going to run out of biofuels as a result of an investigation going on today about the road wear charge, if that's what you mean. It's a system where you put back money where it's needed most. You should know which problems can be solved by the road wear charge. It's a flora of hauliers who don't go around because of an unserious industry that you can't access. It could be a way to get to it with a GPS system so we can see which racers it is. There is a frightening statistic that we received yesterday from the Transport Workers' Federation. I'm going back to the biofuel. There are many solutions. We must first realise as a nation that we need to value our biofuels and our biomass higher. There are certainly solutions for transport and many other things that allow us to get it out. Ingemar Nilsson was told that the wolf is coming. I don't think that's going to happen, at least not because of the road wear charge.
i-92919def8f4ff654-1329	Mr President, I would like to Both the forest industry and Skogforsk say that it will threaten 10 percent of biomass. It particularly hits the parts of the country that Birger Lahti himself comes from. What I hear when we have discussed in panel debates is that the Left Party and Birger Lahti say that they are concerned that it is already not profitable to extract biomass from the forest. To then add a road wear charge, mileage tax, or call it what you want, of 4 billion that you talk about means 4 billion more to be paid. There are 4 billion more to be paid by those who are going to extract the biomass from the forest. It's about distance. We have an elongated country. You choose to tax distances. There are no other modes of transport in the forest. There will be truck traffic. I'm sure there are rogue actors and other things. But I do not think it will make it more profitable to extract biomass from the forest. This is a proposal that puts aside the footholds for rural livelihoods and for the renewable transition. This makes it much more difficult to achieve the objective we both support, a renewable energy system by 2040. How does Birger Lahti intend to get enough biomass to convert our energy system, get enough for cogeneration and get enough for biogas? What proposals does the Left Party have for this? It is clear that the proposals contained in the government budget, which it also supports, go in the opposite direction. According to Skogforsk, 10 percent of biomass is at risk. It is not something you waved away that it was worse in the past and that other things have been scandalous and problematic in the past. These are harsh facts that are on the table today that make it less profitable to collect biomass. We already have a lot of competition for fuels and we see that the fossil alternatives have also fallen in price.
i-92919def8f4ff654-1335	Mr President, I would like to Like I said, Rickard, there's an investigation going on. It's not finished. I do not know if you already have advance tips on how it will land, which ones will be affected by it and whether it applies to all roads. You seem to have the answer to that. I can guarantee that if it is the case that I have to take a position on something that does not benefit biomass, biofuels and the countryside, I will look at it carefully. I can promise you that. It seems that you already have an answer to how it will beat. You can calm down. There is no report that it will affect all roads in Sweden and all industries. There is no such proposal today. I will follow it closely. I hope it's not going as Rickard Nordin paints a horror scenario about.
i-92919def8f4ff654-1339	Mr President, I would like to The need to present an additional amending budget at all is a sign in itself that the situation has been out of control. The possibility of presenting an additional amending budget is available in order to be able to meet an unforeseen or exceptional event. It is not there to respond to the entirely probable, in fact logical, consequence of the policy pursued. The fact that an extraordinary amending budget is presented just the day after the vote on its own ordinary amending budget does not, of course, instill any direct confidence. There are those in this House who, in all seriousness, say that Sweden is a country that has taken responsibility in the situation we have experienced in recent months in response to the migrant crisis. Instead, let me say that Sweden is the individual European country that has taken the least responsibility and has created problems not only for ourselves but for our neighbours. At the same time, there is a country that has been reproached and called with the derogatory epithet, namely Hungary. It is, in fact, one of the very few countries that has taken responsibility precisely at this difficult time. It has proved to have had quite, quite right from the beginning, while we ourselves, a little fumbling and dizzying, slowly but surely, only now are beginning to implement measures to reduce volumes. To assert one's limit is not just a state's right. It is the absolute duty of a state to its citizens. Mr President, I would like to It is clear that government policy has put municipalities in a tight and economically difficult situation. Municipal welfare has deteriorated significantly as a result. The Swedish Democrats therefore want a temporary grant to be earmarked for the core business of welfare. We do not want to plough further tax billions into ineffective integration projects, tax-subsidised fake jobs for newly arrived immigrants, additional public services for illegal immigrants or ineffective municipal labour market policies. However, before this can happen, before we can sort out the economic situation in the local government sector, inflows must be stopped, or at least greatly reduced. All measures before that happens are ineffective. For this reason, Sweden will of course carry out direct expulsions, i.e. reject asylum seekers coming from another EU country. There is no reason whatsoever, whether moral or legal, for Sweden to examine asylum cases from Denmark or Germany. This powerful measure, which would really have an effect on volumes, has not yet been able to implement. The Swedish Democrats, as the only party, are opposed to the frivolousness with which to borrow money and pledge future generations. We therefore call for a substantial part, preferably all, of a specific allocation to the municipalities to be financed within the framework of the existing migration and integration budget. Anyone who can't seriously find a single unnecessary expense within this budget, that person at best lacks creative ability and, at worst, fully functioning thinking activities. The Swedish Democrats therefore want the government to return to Parliament with a new, revised and more thought-out draft supplementary amending budget. Before that happens, we will vote against. Mr President, I would like to I therefore support the Swedish Democrats' reservation 1.
i-92919def8f4ff654-1348	Mr President, I would like to The supplementary amending budget that we are dealing with here today is an absolutely necessary measure in an extraordinary situation. It's not unique either. On previous occasions, including in connection with the financial crisis, Parliament has dealt with proposals in a similar way. The proposal allocates an additional EUR 11 billion for 2015 which can also be used in 2016. The municipalities will receive 8.3 billion, and approximately 11⁄2 billion county councils. The allocation for migration is increased by SEK 921 million. The non-profit sector and the sports movement receive an increase of 105 million, and the public education bill is increased by 75 million. Given that all our reforms have so far been financed, that we have halved the general government deficit from 2% to 1%, that this is an acute situation during the current financial year and that work has begun in the Government Office to seek for the future expenditure reductions and cost reductions, operations are financed with loans. I support the committee's proposal in the report and reject the reservation. I am very pleased that in this House there is a very broad majority in favour of the Government's proposal. The proposal is the result of the settlement made by the government with the four bourgeois parties on 23 October on account of the resulting refugee situation. In the committee's discussion, the Left Party has also supported the report, which means that all parties in this House, except the Swedish Democrats, have recognised the need for additional contributions to municipalities and county councils, the sports movement, civil society and an increased appropriation for compensation and housing costs in this unique and, as has been said, strained situation. Seven of the eight parties in the Riksdag have thereby taken responsibility for what is happening in reality, in everyday life, here and now throughout Sweden. Every day the staff of municipalities, county councils and civil society, as well as thousands of volunteers, are making enormous efforts to cope with the reception of all the people who have come here to Sweden on the run from war and conflict. It is about 80 000 asylum seekers last year and perhaps up to 160 000 who are expected to come here this year. Mr President, I would like to It is to facilitate, among other things, the teachers, the social secretaries, the administrators of the Migration Agency, the health and social care staff, the SFI staff, the interpreters, the sports leaders, all the voluntary forces in association and the religious communities and the study associations' active instructors that this extraordinary amending budget has come into being. It is also about creating better opportunities to secure care, school and care for everyone in Sweden. Therefore, most of the amending budget's resources go to the municipalities and county councils. The funds are allocated according to how many asylum seekers and new arrivals have been received and how many of them are children. As a result, municipalities that have also so far taken a great deal of responsibility receive extra, much-needed support. Together with the decision that all municipalities now become responsible for taking part in the reception of refugees, this also means increased justice between Sweden's municipalities. Mr President, I would like to If the additions made to the municipalities by this supplementary amending budget and the resources provided by the decision on the 2016 budget are added together, there will be substantial contributions to the municipalities in the next year. This will facilitate both the reception of refugees and the completion of day-to-day activities. There will be, among other things, an increase in flat-rate compensation for the reception of refugees by 50 per cent, an increase in the school schedule for asylum seekers' children by 50 per cent, an increase in housing construction and efforts to raise knowledge in Sweden. I am, of course, aware that not all parties in this House agree on all these proposals in the 2016 budget. But – and this is important – all parties except one in this House, the Swedish Democrats, relate in their draft budgets for 2016 at least to reality, which is the only reasonable approach if you claim to lead Sweden. The Swedish Democrats' budget for 2016, on the other hand, is completely de facto and would, given that it became a reality, not only mean that these 11 billions disappeared. It would also be a manslaughter battle against welfare in Sweden. With SD's 2016 budget, municipalities would have their state subsidies reduced by nearly 90 billion over the next four years. How it would affect school, health care, and care can easily be seen. This would mean a breakdown of welfare in Sweden with increased injustices, increased divides and increased social unrest. In addition, gender equality would take several substantial steps back to the standards of the 1950s when women were likely to again have to take care of the children, the elderly and the sick rather than contributing working hours in the economy and tax revenues to the common through their own work. Mr President, I would like to Out there in reality, every councillor now has the opportunity to think about how to use the extra resources available to them. As an old county council politician, I know that they do. Skills development for teachers and social secretaries, extra support in classrooms and preschools, book and media purchases to school libraries, more homework help, an extra effort from student health, summer school for more, summer jobs for more young people or reinforced SFI – it is part of the point that the efforts may vary because the needs look so terribly different around our country. We therefore also stand up for municipal self-government and make sure to help municipalities with general state grants. Once again, I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-92919def8f4ff654-1359	Mr President, I would like to A budget that relates to reality, says Ingela Nylund Watz. Precisely – and the Swedish Democrats are the only party that relates directly to reality, already in 2016. What about the government budget? It is overplayed before it even takes effect because the government was not capable of prognosing. You weren't able to listen to what's happening in this community. The government's budget is therefore overplayed before it even takes effect. The expenditure ceiling will crack in 2016 with the budget on the table now. This amending budget does not help this. How many additional amending budgets will we see from this government? If Ingela Nylund Watz is unable to read a budget correctly, it is problematic. Nevertheless, the Swedish Democrats' budget is the only budget that relates precisely to reality because the government's budget is overplayed before it even comes into effect. It must be unique. Enough about this – in the follow-up motion that the Swedish Democrats have quite rightly brought about in connection with the proposal, there are two quite clear claims. I do not understand why it is perceived as so controversial. Firstly, we want the extra funding to be conditional and earmarked for what we consider to be the core business of welfare. I do not understand the problem at all. Secondly, we say that the government should at least try – a small attempt anyway – not to borrow money and push the problems on future generations. Try to find funding within the existing migration and integration budget! Again, isn't there a single expense there that is unnecessary?
i-92919def8f4ff654-1363	Mr President, I would like to It is interesting to hear the spokesperson of the Swedish Democrats trying to make it sound like the government is conducting an irresponsible economic policy. I will come back to this in a moment. In my speech, I said that all our reforms have so far been funded. We have halved the general government deficit from 2% to 1%. This is an emergency. Borrowing is reasonable at such a time during a current financial year, and work has started in the Government Office to find both savings and cost reductions. Mr President, I would like to The really interesting thing in the debate, however, is how credible the Swedish Democrats are in their economic policy at this point. It is good that the Swedish Democrats say that you have order in your budget. That is why I have a few simple questions, and they are about the funding of welfare. How will the reception of new arrivals and welfare be improved when the SD says no to the draft amending budget? In addition, the Swedish Democrats claim in their 2016 budget that in principle all refugees in Sweden are disappearing, and therefore no additional resources need be allocated, giving 90 billion less to the municipalities. I think it's time for Oscar Sjöstedt to take responsibility and describe what the process should look like if from New Year we should not have any refugees and asylum seekers in Sweden and therefore can give municipalities and county councils much less general state subsidies. If Oscar Sjöstedt can do so, I think this debate is going to have an interesting turn.
i-92919def8f4ff654-1368	Mr President, I would like to It is my firm opinion that the government is pursuing an irresponsible economic policy. That view is shared by quite a few voters in this country, and they become more. You can't just say that this situation is acute and very specific. After all, this urgent and special situation has been created with conscious political decisions. Other countries do not have this situation; Sweden has this situation. In other countries, things look completely different. You can't just make up that this happened and you didn't really understand how it happened. After all, a policy has been deliberately pursued that leads inexorably to such a situation. To then stand and argue that you can borrow any amount of money, because the situation is a little special right now is irresponsible. If you borrow money, someone will pay it back, and it will be the generations to come. I don't like that very much. We say that perhaps we should not spend so much money on the reception of new arrivals, and you mean that there will be problems for the new arrivals. Oh, please. Maybe there shouldn't be so many new arrivals. Sweden is extreme in this context. We stand out throughout the Western world and, above all, in the EU in terms of per capita reception. Sweden is the most extreme country in this context. Perhaps we should not have so many new arrivals at all, and that is why we do not need to spend so much money on the so-called integration of the new arrivals. Do not try to suggest that this is a situation that has only arisen out of thin air. Conscious political decisions have led Sweden down this road where we are now. There's nothing strange about that. Causality is called it. If you do A happens B, and therefore I firmly believe that the government is pursuing an irresponsible economic policy. As I said, that view is shared by several others.
i-92919def8f4ff654-1373	Mr President, I would like to There are two things you can say about this. One is that the Swedish Democrats, who in their budget motion for 2016 solves all financial problems for welfare by saying that we will not have any refugees in Sweden at all from next year, not so far in this debate have explained how that process should be done. There are only a few weeks left until the turn of the year, Oscar Sjöstedt. If you can explain how this process should be conducted, perhaps we can have a slightly more interesting debate about the Swedish Democrats' budget options. To just write and say so without being able to assign a path so that Sweden will not have any refugees and asylum seekers from 1 January 2016 is, with permission, only talk and fog curtains. The second point is that we can see that Oscar Sjöstedt believes he is a Member of Parliament in a country other than Sweden. In Sweden we handle the reality we have here. Here the employees of the municipalities go on their knees, the Migration Agency has a lot to do and the non-profit sector struggles and toils every day to solve the situation that has arisen in Sweden with a lot of asylum seekers. If the Swedish Democrats do not want to see this reality, but have Hungary as some sort of example of how we should conduct politics in Sweden, I understand that they do not have much sense to say. The only message that the Swedish democrats really have in this situation is: we are not looking at it, because we are creating a policy based on how you look at the situation in another country. It's a pretty dishonest way of doing politics. Sweden does not need that kind of ostrich mentality. We need responsible parliamentary parties who see reality as it is. Unfortunately, the Swedish democrats do not want to do so, but they deliberately close their eyes to it.
i-92919def8f4ff654-1377	Mr President, I would like to Migration issues are undoubtedly some of the most important issues at the moment. It was pretty obvious when you heard the last line shift. I hardly need to remind you of all the alarm reports from the municipalities and the responsible authorities. These are reports showing that the reception system is already under pressure to the breaking point or, in some cases, has already broken. In several places in our country, the situation is acute. In recent months, I have visited several of the Finnish Immigration Service's units and also social services and asylum accommodations in several locations. I have met with administrators, representatives of social authorities and other actors. The picture you get is alarming. Some officials have just said that they have reached the limit of what they can do, or even that the border has been crossed a long time ago. In many places, a large proportion of the staff are on sick leave from exhaustion. There is every reason to point out, as Mrs Ingela Nylund did here, all the employees of municipalities and authorities and all the voluntary forces who are doing a fantastic job in a very difficult situation. Mr President, I would like to We in this House represent eight different parties. Each has the need and will to speak for its own political proposals. At the same time, history shows that in times of severe stress, parties assume their responsibilities and work together for the good of the country. This was the case during the 1990s crisis, so it was during the financial crisis and so it is even today when Sweden is going to try to deal with a record number of asylum seekers. We have already seen results in the form of a first migration agreement between the government and the alliance parties. Discussions on further measures are ongoing. The Moderates are prepared to stand up and take responsibility when it is necessary to deal with serious situations in our country. Today, we have to work in several ways at the same time. Firstly, we need to change the Swedish migration policy in the long term so that Sweden harmonises its regulations with the rest of the EU. In a situation where the EU has a common external border, all countries within this border must reasonably have a common approach to asylum trials, conditions for new arrivals and, not least, the application of the EU's common acquis. There is also a need for some kind of permanent redistribution mechanism within the EU for the distribution of asylum seekers when individual countries need relief. We simply need to create long-term sustainable asylum rules throughout the European Union. Secondly, Sweden must be better at integration. If we are to continue to be a country with a fundamentally positive view of transparency, acceptance of immigration and the right to asylum, we must also be much better at getting new arrivals on their own. This work requires reforms of the housing market, the labour market and education systems and, not least, a review of remuneration systems, social benefits and tax rules to create clear driving forces for the individual. Thirdly, we have to deal with today's emergency situation. The crisis in the reception of asylum is deeper than most people seem to realize, not least for our municipalities. In addition to the political discussion on measures to influence the number of asylum seekers coming to Sweden, our municipalities must at the same time be given a reasonable opportunity to deal with the reception of those who have already come here. Mr President, I would like to Normally, the government presents an autumn budget for the coming year and follows it up with a spring change budget in the spring after. However, the government may add additional amending budgets if there are special reasons. The addition of an extraordinary amending budget by a government is very unusual but not entirely unique. This happened, for example, most recently during the financial crisis, when the Alliance government added an additional amending budget to strengthen the local government sector in a very serious situation. Now the parliament has the government's additional amending budget for 2015 on its table. The efforts are based on the migration agreement made recently by the Alliance and the Government. It is, of course, a strength in a serious situation that there is broad political support in the Riksdag for politics. I will make it clear that this obviously does not support the government's budget otherwise, because there we have diametrically different views on many issues. The Moderates have had a great influence on the outcome of the migration negotiations, and we are all behind the amending budget. The most important change is extra support of 8.3 billion to municipalities and 1.5 billion to county councils to deal with the increasing number of asylum seekers and new arrivals. In addition to this, the Migration Agency will receive a little less than a billion extra, and civil society will receive 200 million extra to strengthen integration and efforts during the asylum period. In total, the amending budget amounts to an extra 11 billion to deal with migration. The money is already paid out this year but is intended to be used in both 2015 and 2016. The additions to the municipalities are considerable. When it comes to the municipalities in my own constituency, for example, the City of Borås receives more than 80 million, and smaller municipalities such as Ulricehamn, Svenljunga or Mark who have received many new arrivals in recent years receive in the order of 25 to 30 million. Money, of course, does not solve all the urgent practical problems, but at least it solves the economics of our municipalities and county councils. One can of course, like Oscar Sjöstedt, have critical views on the fact that the state finances this extra effort by increasing public debt. However, the urgency of the situation and the fact that the addition is decided so late in the year make it difficult to do otherwise. It is fortunate that after eight years with the Alliance, Sweden has reduced its public debt in relation to bnp to one of the lowest in the EU. This makes it possible to increase debt slightly with no major impact on the national economy. But in the long run Sweden must of course have a migration policy that is economically sustainable without the need for loan financing. You should constantly work to curb cost increases, seek savings opportunities and, not least, succeed better in getting new arrivals into their own livelihoods faster. In order to maintain confidence in Swedish economic policy in the future, it is important that the government respects the fiscal framework in general and is not tempted to deviate from principles such as surplus targets, expenditure ceilings and that new reforms should be financed crown by crown. Unfortunately, there have recently been worrying signals from the Minister for Finance that these principles are no longer as obvious to the government as they were supposed to be in the past. Mr President, I would like to The Moderates are therefore behind the supplementary amending budget. Nevertheless, I would like to raise two issues relating to this. Support for municipalities is important and essential. On the other hand, there may be some concern that the distribution of money between municipalities may be perceived as a bit arbitrary. The distribution is based on known facts about the number of asylum seekers received in the municipality in relation to the municipality's population. In addition, municipalities receive different amounts for adults and children received. The distribution is therefore calculated on the basis of known figures, but the situation is constantly changing. The money is also intended to cover costs for next year as well. It is impossible to know today what the distribution of new arrivals will be in one year's time, not least now that legislation is changing so that all municipalities are forced to accept new arrivals. Another problem is that some municipalities that have a formal responsibility for, for example, unaccompanied children and young people place them in a dwelling located in another municipality. In this case, the municipality of residence where the accommodation is located is responsible for the children's schooling, while the municipality responsible receives the entire state grant. The money should, of course, follow the children, but unfortunately not all municipalities handle it that way. During the presentation in the Committee on Finance, Minister for Finance Magdalena Andersson said that these problems have been highlighted and that they will be followed. However, she could not answer how it should be done in practical terms. I believe that we all recognise these problems and share the view that it is important that financial aid really ends up with the municipalities that have the actual cost. I assume that the government will come back to this. Mr President, I would like to I would like to conclude by calling for the proposal to be approved in the committee's report.
i-92919def8f4ff654-1401	Mr President, I would like to Tonight we are debating an extraordinary amending budget for state expenditure for 2015. The reason for this is that more resources are needed to receive in the best way all refugees who have sought protection in Sweden, especially during the autumn. The support that we will decide on will go to both municipalities and county councils but also to non-profit organisations. It is good that municipalities and non-profit organisations receive support for the costs they have had during the autumn and that they will receive later. But the commitment of the state must be in the short and long term. I therefore hope that the government will come back in future budgets to how this support can be secured in a little longer than a year. What is positive in this budget is the distribution key that exists to distribute the 9.8 billion SEK between Sweden's 290 municipalities and 21 county councils. It is not based on the size of the municipality, but on the needs that exist. It is based on the responsibility of each municipality for the reception of refugees. Therefore, the municipalities that have received more refugees also receive more money. As a result, Norberg municipality receives over SEK 6 000 per inhabitant, while Vellinge does not need more than SEK 58 per inhabitant. The differences between the importance of this money in each municipality are great. For municipalities such as Norberg, Ljusnarsberg and Filipstad, tomorrow's decision will have a decisive impact on the municipality's budget. They are municipalities that have stood up when other municipalities have failed. But there is also a political dimension that becomes clear when you look at the municipalities. Municipalities that have red governance have taken responsibility, while the municipalities that have blue governance in many ways have slipped away. Therefore, we in the Riksdag have finally concluded that mandatory legislation is needed for all municipalities to take responsibility. It is time that Vaxholm, Danderyd, Vellinge and Öckerö also assume their responsibilities. Support for the non-profit sector is also an important part of the budget. It goes partly to the sports movement, partly to the public education movement and partly to all organisations that have been in place around society to ensure that the reception is as good as possible. I think those resources will feel like a little extra rye in the back for everyone who has worked hard during the fall. I would therefore like to support the proposal in the report and the proposal. Mr President, I would like to In the debate, some have argued that Sweden is doing badly, that the increase in migration would lead to a kind of welfare collapse. I would therefore like to read from SCB's latest report on national accounts in Sweden:
i-92919def8f4ff654-1419	Households are also doing quite well. Their disposable income grew by 4.3 per cent and households' financial savings grew by 2 billion. Financial savings of public administration for 2014 have been revised up to SEK 2.3 billion, mainly due to an increase in income taxes. The first two quarters of this year have been revised up to 2.2 billion and 5.5 billion respectively, which is mainly explained by revised value added and income taxes. Sweden is not doing badly. If, on the other hand, SD's draft budget, with substantial cuts of SEK 90 billion in the public sector, had been approved, it would have gone very badly for Sweden's municipalities. It is they who create the welfare of our society every day. I'm proud to represent the Left Party. We do not support any agreement on migration. We are a party that stands up for the right of asylum every day while we negotiate and press the government for more and better reforms so that the economy in Sweden continues to grow and so that everyone who lives here, both those who came recently and those who have lived here a little longer, gets a welfare that you can trust.
i-92919def8f4ff654-1423	Mr President, I would like to This is a little outside the debate on the supplementary budget. But I was so happy when Håkan Svenneling mentioned all the positive effects of the Alliance's budget that has governed politics in Sweden in 2014. That's nice to hear. In fact, we have also governed the policy in 2015. We will see if the positive effects continue for a further time. I have observed that both Magdalena Andersson, party secretary Jämtin Jämtin and other representatives on the government side of the latest has taken credit for the fact that Sweden is doing well, that unemployment is falling, that more people are coming to work, that public finances are strengthened and that growth is increasing. I would like to remind you once again of the budget that governs Sweden today. It is the Alliance's budget that does. It is the policy of the Alliance that is still moving on. It is our reforms that are still working on the labour market and are strengthening businesses and business. This government's reforms have done little harm or benefit. The fact is that this government has not significantly affected politics at all in the last year. On the other hand, there are risks in the future. It is now that you are launching what you call your reforms. I call it risks for entrepreneurship and the labour market, not least for exclusion, for example, through the decisions we made today on the health insurance system. That is where the risks are, but so far we have not seen any, and that is a positive thing.
i-92919def8f4ff654-1428	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by clarifying that it was about SCB's report for 2015 and partly for 2014. Political decisions have been taken, so now we have an alliance budget with a spring change budget and an autumn change budget that the government and the Left Party have negotiated and decided on. What budget is currently running is a little difficult to paint, given that there are seven parties involved in the current economic policy. But from the turn of the year it will in any case be in order, and then the signals sent by the government and the Left Party throughout 2015. Then you will see which budget governs Sweden. I am not as worried as Jan Ericson, but rather I am more positively cautious about what will happen in Sweden. The risks that Jan Ericson paints are rather those that we have seen have had very negative effects on people under the rule of the Alliance. My own father is currently in the health insurance system. He has not passed 450 days, where the precipice goes today, but he has been heading in that direction. I can clearly see what it would have meant for him as a human being if we had not abolished the precipice today. Then he who is beginning to grow into the years, but still has some work capacity, had received the little financial support that he is receiving today from the system completely broken down. He would be forced into work without being declared healthy. These are the effects of the risks Jan Ericson is talking about. Now we have one possible. A lot of new arrivals are coming. We can see that the dependency ratio will fall for everyone of working age compared to what it would otherwise have done. We need to invest in Sweden. We need to invest, and I intend to ensure that the Left Party pushes on the government to continue to make more green bets and red bets for better welfare.
i-92919def8f4ff654-1433	Mr President, I would like to I can once again note that the figures that Håkan Svenneling read out for the third quarter have obviously not been affected by the government's autumn budget. But we can discuss it in a year's time, and we'll see where we land. As far as the so-called insurance reform is concerned, I was part of the S ocial insurance investigation. It concluded that the time limit could be removed if the system of other follow-up and rehabilitation was first reviewed. All parties agreed, including the Left Party. Nevertheless, the government abolishes the deadline before putting the other systems in place. That's what makes this so dangerous. There are several major challenges affecting public finances. The health insurance system is one of the challenges. Migration costs, which are increasing sharply, are different. If you do not take responsibility for these parts, there is a great risk that they will eat on other parts of the budget, and it hits welfare directly. That's what's so dangerous. I would like to remind you that it is worrying to see that the Minister for Finance is starting to falter with regard to both the surplus target and the expenditure ceilings as well as the krona-for-krona principle for new reforms. If you start to careless about these things, the state finances are in trouble.
i-92919def8f4ff654-1437	Mr President, I would like to I do not think the Minister of Finance is sloppy in the way Jan Ericson describes. We have a finance minister who sees the situation in which we are in, and thereby she cooperates with the parties who are willing to cooperate and take responsibility – at the moment it is only the Left Party, except the government parties. It is clear that we are in a situation where the population of Sweden has increased very strongly for a very short time. Then there is only one thing you can do: you need to make even more of what we need from before. Investment in housing is needed. Therefore, we present the largest investment in housing construction in 20 years. Under the alliance government they investigated, removed and changed so that the construction went down sharply. We need to reverse that trick and get in a position where more is being built. Then we get more people to work while investing for the future. We also need to invest in infrastructure and expand the rail system that does not work well, so that more people can get to work on the construction of rail and so that more people can make use of rail. It's very important. We need to build a well-being that can be trusted so that you don't get sick. There I am happy about the investment we see in young people's mental illness. It is very worrying that young women in particular are more likely to be on sick leave than in the past. That's not good. If you have a long time left in working life, you have to be healthy and keep your whole working life. Therefore, we should not have a system that punishes those who are ill, but we should have a system that prevents young people's mental illness and ensures that all people in our society are well. These issues lie more in other budget debates. Linked to the extra budget, we should be glad that we have the courage to invest in meeting the migration that we are now seeing.
i-92919def8f4ff654-1443	Mr President, I would like to Indeed, Bnp does not say anything about a country's economic well-being. With this logic, Bangladesh would be a more prosperous country economically than Sweden. One must, of course, put bnp in relation to something, that is why we use the term bnp per capita. It's not a perfect term either. There are a lot of problems with it. But at least it says something about economic development and economic well-being. They say we have more people in work, but in relation to what? Is it in relation to how much population growth we've had? Does this mean that employment has increased with one person while we have had a population increase of one million people? It's a pretty bad development. We must, of course, put it in relation to something. That is why such terms as unemployment are used to measure the total labour force. The number of hours worked has increased, in relation to what? These are basic concepts on which we should actually be able to agree throughout the political spectrum. You have to put things in relation to each other. Otherwise, they say nothing and are completely meaningless. Once again, there was a claim that the Swedish Democrats would make cuts in welfare. We are cutting down on the costs that are borne by the other parties, including the Left Party. It concerns the costs of immigration which have been very high in this country. The Left Party chooses to call immigration policy costs for welfare costs in order to try to package the concept a little more attractive. I can see that you do. But, of course, taxpayers should tire of financing the whole party at some point. But you're still not doing it right. Instead, speak plainly! These are the costs of immigration to which we say no and to which your party agrees. There we want to make savings and instead use the money for welfare. But speak plainly!
i-92919def8f4ff654-1449	Mr President, I would like to I read out a lot of different measures to describe Sweden's positive development. It is clear that you can look at different dimensions, and when it comes to bnp per capita it was one of Sweden's leaders who rightly said that it was also a positive step. For Sweden, it has been doing so for quite a long time. Oscar Sjöstedt felt that he lacked the measure of unemployment. Indeed, unemployment is also falling, at the latest by 0.4%. I think it's safe to say that most of it points in a positive direction. But in order to do that, you have to have a policy that dares to deliver, invest and invest resources. We do this with the extra budget that Oscar Sjöstedt wants us to just throw in the trash. That's the wrong way to go. I don't think your reasoning holds, Oscar. You say it's a cut in immigration, but the cost item is called state subsidies to the municipalities. In this state grant, the state is involved in financing the welfare delivered by municipalities and county councils. It is, among other things, health care, care for the elderly, preschool that the money primarily goes to. Then you say it's connected to immigration. I think you're very wrong there. I don't think we can wake up one day in Sweden and see that you've taken away all the people you don't like. That's not how political reality works. I think the Swedish Democrats are a very strange party. I sat earlier today next to one of Oscar Sjöstedt's party colleagues at a seminar on border barriers. They were concerned that it is difficult to travel in the Nordic countries now that border barriers and customs are being built up. They wanted to see increased cooperation in the Nordic countries. But at the same time you are very clear that you want to throw out everyone who has a religion that is not called Christianity. This means that it really is only about pure racism from the Swedish Democrats. It is not a question of wanting to pursue any real economic policy.
i-92919def8f4ff654-1456	Mr President, I would like to There's something called causality, too. To begin with, we have had a weak development of bnp– even of bnp per capita; I'm glad we may be a little in agreement, but possibly not in full agreement, that things should be put in relation to something. As an economist, I think it is important. But there's a causality in the whole thing, too. Bnp per capita has increased marginally. We have had a weak development of bnp per capita in this country. I certainly do not blame the Left Party for that. We have had that for eight years with the Alliance Government too, so it is certainly not the Left Party's fault. I'm not saying that. But how can one then argue – as Håkan Svenneling did in his speech – that this is due to the rather strong immigration that we have had? At least we agree that we have a high level of immigration. Håkan Svenneling seems to think that these two things must depend on each other. But just because you find a correlation at a certain end does not mean that there is a causal connection at the same time. That's two completely different things. You have to keep those concepts separate. I also believe that we can agree that the employment rate is very low, especially among newly arrived immigrants, but also among foreign born people who have been in Sweden for quite some time. Sweden has the largest employment gap among comparable OECD countries. It's a huge problem. And, after all, when they come into employment, they generally have lower incomes than natives. That's also a problem. These are facts that cannot be argued against. How on earth, then, could these two things together – that we have strong immigration and that people as immigrants either do not find themselves in employment at all or have slightly lower incomes than natives – explain an increase in GDP per capita? It doesn't make any sense. That equation doesn't add up. Håkan Svenneling will be happy to comment on this a little.
i-92919def8f4ff654-1461	Mr President, I would like to I was very clear, Oscar, that it is not the great immigration that makes us have a positive bnp development or a positive development in Sweden as a whole. What I'm saying is that the Swedish economy is doing well and that we are not on the verge of any welfare collapse, which is one of the strong expressions that the Swedish democrats have used. Sweden is actually doing well. We have a well-being that works. It smells good of gingerbread in a lot of places I visit, it works pretty well in preschool and so on. But we definitely have a challenge, and we must take it seriously. That is why we are seven parties saying yes to this extra budget and one party saying no. You in the Swedish Democrats, like Ingela Nylund Watz, want to put your head in the sand and be like an ostrich. I think that is the wrong way to go. But I know that it is based on a racist policy and that you do not like people who come from other countries. What Sweden needs is to strengthen the economic development we now have through investments and investments. Then I think we can grow into a stronger Sweden where employment continues to increase, where we get more in the labour force, where the number of people employed is increasing and where we get down unemployment. Then I think we'll also have a good community to live in. Then we can create a well-being that can be trusted, so that you can feel safe in childcare, feel that care for the elderly is safe and so on. I believe that this is a better society than the society that Oscar Sjöstedt is trying to create, where we should be concerned and suspicious of other people and be afraid that the refugee home in our municipality will start to burn.
