i-8801aeda13ef4503-3	Madam President, I would like Ladies and gentlemen! Jabar Amin and Amineh Kakabaveh have asked questions in two interpellations about the political situation and the development of violence in Turkey. I choose to respond to the interpellations in a context. I am very concerned about developments in Turkey and have, on a number of occasions, clearly distanced myself from the escalation of violence between the government and the PKK. I have condemned attacks on party premises and on the media. I am concerned about the situation of journalists in the country. Sweden supports the clear statements made by the EU on developments in Turkey. Sweden and the EU strongly urge the parties to cease their arms and resume the peace process. In August, I received HDP leader Selahattin Demirtaş in Stockholm, and I conduct ongoing talks with representatives of the Turkish Government and the opposition, including the HDP leader, on the situation in the country and in the region. Sweden regards a renewed Kurdish peace process as of crucial importance for Turkey's continued democratisation, with central bearing on the country's EU approach. Through our active political support for further Turkish reforms and the country's EU process, including bilateral reform support aimed at strengthening democracy, the rule of law and human rights, we want to promote democratic development that also contributes to progress in the peace process and strengthened human rights. A renewed peace process could also contribute to greater stability across Turkey's borders, not least in Syria and Iraq. I would like to point out that Turkey has taken decisive responsibility for the large flows of refugees from these neighbouring countries. The parliamentary elections of 7 June were a sign of strength for Turkish democracy and demonstrated the dynamism of Turkish society. It is a crucial responsibility of all democratic forces in Turkey to curb threats and violence that may hamper a free and transparent electoral movement and the conduct of fair elections throughout the country on 1 November. We expect the recommendations made by international election observers to ensure the conditions for free and open political debate and peaceful expression of opinion in Turkey to be respected. Sweden contributes with election observers within the framework of international election observation missions, while supporting local election observation initiatives.
i-8801aeda13ef4503-9	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by thanking the Foreign Minister for his reply. I would like to draw attention to some positive and important elements of the answer. Among other things, the Minister for Foreign Affairs said that Sweden regards a renewed Kurdish peace process as of crucial importance for Turkey's continued democratisation, with central bearings on the country's EU approach. It is very positive that the government realises that this is important and that the democratisation of Turkey cannot happen without resolving the Kurdish issue. I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for this. In addition, I fully share the assessment and opinion of the Foreign Minister when she says that a re-launched peace process could also contribute to greater stability across Turkey's borders, not least in Syria and Iraq. Of course, a Turkey in constant war and in constant internal conflict will have bearings not only on Iraq and Syria but also on Iran. It is a destabilising factor if we have a situation in which Turkey is in constant conflict with the minorities in its own country. Madam President, I would like Having said that, I would like to return to the main issue in my interpellation, namely what the government and the Foreign Minister intend to do to criticise – and not just in general terms – the Turkish Government for all the abuses that have been committed in the last five six months. It is about military siege of Kurdish cities, where the military shoots at children and women. This is about a wave of illegal arrests. This is a violation of the territory of other countries. It's about bombing villages in Iraqi Kurdistan. This is about direct and indirect support for the terrorist organisation Isis. It is about independent newspapers being attacked while the government is passively watching. It is about fomenting attacks and attacks on the modern and multicultural party HDP, so that their offices in different cities are attacked. It's about inciting and inciting the Kurds. One makes the state either directly by the state itself deciding on the example of siege of cities or indirectly by the state watching when different offices and newspapers are attacked. In this respect, I believe that the Turkish Government is also criticised for what it has done and for what it is doing. What the Turkish Government has been guilty of recently is, in my opinion, more or less state terrorism – it is besieged militaryly whole cities and shoots at people. I think it is appropriate that the Foreign Minister not only criticises attacks and attacks on newspapers in general terms, but also criticises the Turkish Government. There must be law and order, and human rights and international law must be respected.
i-8801aeda13ef4503-16	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank you, Minister Margot, for your commitment, for the work you do and also for the answer. I agree with the previous speaker that there are positive things in the answer. It is a good thing that Sweden is in various ways trying to support democratic development in Turkey and greater respect for human rights. But one should not have too much hope in Erdo中an, who directs his attack on his own people and the PKK instead of pointing it at the very greatest danger, which is Isis. The bombings against the PKK strike blindly and hit the civilian population. The bombs are not actually aimed at the PKK, but at the Kurdish people. That is how it is perceived by the Kurdish people, and that is how it is perceived in the Middle East and Turkey. That is why Sweden's role is very important. I myself have asked a lot of concrete questions. I expect the Foreign Minister to respond if she believes that there is a plan in the government, the EU and the UN to stop the violence and that it has shaken the world, the region, Sweden and all the people. In recent attacks, 128 people have so far been murdered. Most are Kurds, workers' activists, young girls and young women. DB P has succeeded in bringing together women, which is a threat to Erdo and the Islamic State. He is simply involved in political Islam. He himself is against women's rights. Two years ago, he removed the Minister for Gender Equality and set up a family minister. All of this is because the Kurds and the Socialists have managed to bring 38 women into Parliament. It poses a threat to today's AKP system in Turkey, which is political Islam. It is very important to highlight the situation of women. Our government has the foreign policy dimension, which is very important. It is important to mention that Kurdish female peshmerga has managed far better than Turkey and NATO to stop Isis in many areas and not least in Kobane. All this irritated Erdo a lot. In addition, he lost at the general elections on 7 June. The outburst of anger was directed directly at the Kurds. The Kurds had not voted for him, but for alternative parties which they feel promote peace, solidarity and justice. I wonder whether Sweden and the Foreign Minister have a concrete plan for how to stop the violence, get the parties to sit at the negotiating table and how to ensure that the elections in two weeks' time will be conducted in a democratic manner and at the back of all people, especially the Kurds who are in greatest danger. Three attacks have been made on Kurds and socialists. In all cases, the Turkish regime and government have stopped investigations and media transparency. We were last told last night that it even applies to the 128 who have been murdered. One wonders who is behind this and whether it is not the regime's own or someone else who has properly planned it if the perpetrators are protected.
i-8801aeda13ef4503-25	Madam President, I would like I thank the interpellants for their comments. What is Sweden doing, and what can the Swedish Government do on this issue? Our main platform is European cooperation. In EU cooperation there is now a track that has to do with Turkey's status as a future EU country and a candidate country for EU membership. It's an important road. It's already mapped out. Here are a number of criteria that you work with. This leads to a process in which we have to meet regularly and talk about very specific reform requirements for Turkey. The second is what you do in the UN community. That is to ensure that it is constantly discussed. It ensures that the issue is also discussed and discussed in the UN context. Then that is what we do through all our bilateral and other political and diplomatic contacts. It's through statements and contacts. As you know, and as I said in my reply, I met Demirta ş at the end of August. It was an important signal to say that we recognise the election outcome with such a strong success for the Kurdish people's party HDP. We met at the Ministry for Foreign Affairs during his visit to Stockholm. It was a very strong and important meeting to congratulate him and HDP on the election success when the party first entered Parliament. The result of the elections was a sign of democratic strength. Now there was a broader representation of both ethnicity and gender than ever before. Of course, we were also talking about the very dramatic developments in Turkey. We'll follow it closely. As a country, we have close and extensive relations with Turkey. We have bilateral partnerships, strategic reform support and, of course, as a country, we have expressed support for Turkey's membership negotiations. There are also many people in this country who have family and friends there. We talked about the escalation of violence in the country and that the cease-fire between the PKK and Turkey had been broken – the breast-feeding message I had given to my Turkish Foreign Minister colleague when we had spoken earlier in the day. Of course, I called on both parties to continue to support peace and to contribute to the resumption of the peace process. After the meeting we had a rather well attended and, I would say, appreciated press conference together. Since then, a lot has happened, unfortunately for the worse. It is an escalating and complicated conflict in Syria at the risk of it spreading across the border to Turkey. Here Turkey has a very important role to play in combating ISIL. But of course it is also vulnerable to terrorist attacks. We have seen developments in the country with newspaper editorials and HDP's party premises being attacked and burned down. What we can hope is that one will gather in the country after seeing such a terrorist act that we experienced only a short time ago and that one says: When such a terrible thing happens, we need to get together. How do we contribute to peaceful development in the country? We continue to call on Turkey's leadership and government and all other parties, including HDP, to contribute to this. That's the most important thing we can do. We do it via the EU, the UN and bilaterally.
i-8801aeda13ef4503-36	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the clarification and presentation. This is particularly true of the importance of the Foreign Minister receiving the HDP leader and declaring to the outside world that it is an important part of our relations with Turkey but also an important part of Turkey's development. It is important that there are democratic forces working for reconciliation and peace. Unfortunately, the Turkish State has done much over a hundred years of abuse and repression against various minorities that it deserves criticism in this House. Only four five years ago it decided that what happened to the Armenians should be seen as a genocide committed by the Turkish state. There are also other minorities that have been affected during the hundred years that the modern Turkish state has existed. The actions of the Turkish State and the actions of the various Turkish governments in different epochs and even during this government deserve criticism when it exercises repression against its minorities. For almost three decades now, as a result of the abuse and repression of the Turkish state, a liberation organisation has been established which is fighting for the rights of the Kurds in northern Kurdistan, the so-called Turkish Kurdistan. It is a consequence of the chauvinist policy that Turkey has had towards the Kurds. It is important for the outside world to understand that peace in Turkey is not possible without negotiations with the PKK. The PKK represents a vast majority of the Kurds in Turkish Kurdistan and is therefore an important party. Unfortunately, the outside world has declared and seen the PKK as a terrorist organisation in the same way the outside world saw the PLO and ANC as terrorist organisations. The leaders of the latter two became Nobel laureates. One wonders when the imprisoned Öcalan will receive the Nobel Prize. I think it is important to realise that we must work on this and that Turkey must enter into dialogue with the PKK as well. That is why my supplementary question to the Foreign Minister is: can the Foreign Minister play or take an intermediate role between the Turkish State and the PKK to ensure that the peace negotiations that are now suspended can be resumed? Can Sweden play such a role? Norway played such an important role in secret two three years ago. Now the question is: Can we in Sweden contribute with an intermediate role? I think it would be a major contribution to the peace process if we managed to do so.
i-8801aeda13ef4503-43	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the initiative to invite Selahattin Demirta ş and HDP to Sweden and to the Ministry for Foreign Affairs. It means a lot. It is also important to emphasise what we have now discussed: count on the Kurds! A peace process in the Middle East without resolving the issues of the Palestinians and the Kurds is totally democraticly impossible. We need to talk about minorities. There are also many other minorities such as Assyrians, Syrians, Armenians and all these in these countries. But the largest ethnic groups are the Palestinians and the Kurds. This is important for the development of democracy. Democracy is retreating everywhere, not least throughout the Middle East and especially in those countries where the Kurds and minorities are located and where Islam is a political dimension. It is used against the people, against democracy, against minorities and against women's rights. It is therefore important that we play an active role here in the promotion of democracy and full human rights and freedoms for all people, but above all in the case of the Kurds, minorities and women. This is what has led to the various conflicts that have led to civil war. Now it is a regional war because Erdo中an has simply taken the right to attack Iraq – unfortunately with the support of President Masoud Barzani, who has himself banned his own President and ordered four ministers in a military coup d'état. These are the regional powers that support each other when they need and then can also oppose each other. This has been the case for the Kurds; the Kurds have been a pawn for all regimes in the region. But when you need support, you suddenly ally a clan leader with Erdo中an, who is also the sultan and who wants to appoint for this. This game is much bigger. That is why it is important to have knowledge as well as support talks and peace talks. I hope that the Foreign Minister will speak soon and perhaps call Turkey's ambassador to ensure that violence does not spread to Sweden. We have witnessed hundreds of Turkish nationalists burning premises and protesting. So it is not just one, two or three people. That is why I think it is important that we now play a clear role. In two weeks there will be elections, and also in Sweden over 30 000 people will vote. The peace talks are important, and they will take place both here in Sweden and in Turkey. They must be carried within Sweden but also within the EU and the UN. The EU's position is not always Sweden's position. Only Germany thinks like Sweden: Turkey is not a stable country. The others think so. NATO and the United States need the base there, and that's why everyone's around Erdo But when you need it, you criticize. I hope that Sweden both condemns and criticises the massacres and also ensures that the forthcoming elections will be a democratic election and that the Kurdish solution is a priority on the agenda.
i-8801aeda13ef4503-50	Madam President, I would like This is an incredibly important and interesting discussion with many issues on the agenda. I would like to start by saying that after eight years of opposition, we Social Democrats want to show that Sweden is once again a vote to be counted on in the Middle East – a progressive voice for peace and freedom. That is why I am proud of the work of the government and the Foreign Minister in the region and for these issues. It's necessary. A progressive and important voice is needed in the Middle East in view of what is happening – what is happening in Jerusalem, what is happening in Erbil, what is happening in Ankara and what is happening in the rest of the Middle East. Good powers are needed. Important progressive forces are also needed. We see that there is a difference between the foreign policy that is taking place now and the one that took place over eight years. The differences are clear. We are engaged in constructive dialogue and diplomacy, and I am pleased and proud of that. It is about being well thought out, and it is about having good solutions. That is what constructive diplomacy is all about. Then we shall also look at the relationships that we have with good progressive forces in the region. From my point of view, there are two things. One is to continue to make demands in Turkey's context on respect for human rights, on the rights of ethnic minorities and on the resumption of a peace process. The second is to maintain a good dialogue with Turkey and the progressive forces that I mentioned that want change. We see that there is a huge strength and a huge force in the country that has gathered around HDP and wants a change. Therefore, it is important that we continue to support these forces and support them. We see that the situation in Turkey has been violent since the June elections. That has also been brought forward by previous speakers. When HDP entered Parliament for the first time after the elections, they faced enormous opposition. Party premises have been vandalized, and the headquarters in Ankara was the subject of an attack not long ago. Threats and harassment occur every day against democracy fighters, peace lovers and progressive forces in the country. We Social Democrats take the situation seriously and we believe that political parties are a prerequisite for democracy. If their activities cannot be protected, democracy is under threat. That is why their work must be secured. We have declared that we see HDP as our sister party. A delegation of social democrats and representatives from Olof Palme's international centre went to Ankara and Diyarbakir. We met with representatives of HDP and also from our second sister party CHP and from the government party AKP. Our message was clear in view of what has been said before: the peace process must be resumed. The Kurdish question must be resolved by democratic means. Weapons must be out of the way in order for us to take a few steps forward. Violations of human rights must stop. Free and fair elections must be guaranteed on 1 November. We have said this to the parties we met: we Social Democrats can play an important role, and we would like to do so. We sent this to the parties to the conflict.
i-8801aeda13ef4503-60	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank you for the comments that have been made here. No one should doubt Sweden's position. We stand up for peace, democracy and human rights. I have met appreciation and respect for Sweden's very clear voice both from the Turkish Government, from HDP and others and here in Sweden. It is of course important, and it would be nice to have a mission that gave us a role to play in all this, but it can only happen if the parties want it and invite us to that kind of task. However, I believe that we must be able to keep several thoughts in mind at the same time and that we must understand that Turkey obviously wants recognition for what we do when it comes to receiving refugees. Almost 2 million refugees are now present in Turkey, and it is important to say that, of course, they need support from the outside world in order to be able to live up to that role, just as other countries in the region do. It's a huge strain, and they need to know that we know that. They also need to know that we are saying that they are right, like all other countries, to defend themselves against terrorism when they have so many terrorist threats, not least from ISIL. It is a task that should unite the country so that they can say: we do not want this type of indiscriminate killing of the civilian population here or anywhere else. We must help to combat terrorism wherever it occurs. It's very important. At the same time, it must also be said that Turkey now needs to take a strong stance on recent acts of violence against politically committed citizens, against newspapers and party premises – everything that has contributed to polarisation and a spiral of violence in Turkey. Everyone must contribute, come together and say: now we shall have a democratic election, we must calm the situation and we must return to peace negotiations. I agree with Mr Amineh that, with regard to the position of minorities, whether it be the Palestinians or the Kurds, it will be crucial for the whole region how this goes. I have often said before that what is happening in Jerusalem and Palestine is like the pumping heart of the whole Middle East, and the same is true of the situation of the Kurds. The Turkish Government has a great responsibility, like the rest of us, to push to ensure that the country is driven in a democratic direction. One would like the President to have the courage to go back to the role played in the early 2000s when he actually sat down for proper peace negotiations and that they could be constructive again. We need to lay down weapons now to pave the way for peace talks and for a renewed Kurdish peace process. It is absolutely crucial for Turkey's future development. I thank you for the debate and for the comments that will be included in our continued contacts with both the Kurdish party and the opposition and, of course, also with the Turkish Government. They will be a strategic partner for the EU in the future, because migration flows are so strong there. We need to talk to Turkey, and we need to work together. Then reform efforts must be made.
i-8801aeda13ef4503-67	Madam President, I would like There is no doubt that there is a big difference between the foreign policy of the present and that of the previous government. We need to be clear about that. It is about the recognition of Palestine. This is about our view of Western Sahara. It is about what the Minister said a moment ago that a solution and democratic development are not possible in Turkey without a solution to the Kurdish question. These are important positions, and they distinguish our government from the alliance government. I am pleased with the focus on foreign policy, in which we protect human rights. What I mean is that we can do more, we can push and we can observe when states, governments, ministers and presidents violate human rights. I am pleased that the Minister is opening up for a mediating role. The Minister said that when the parties want it to be honoured if we get such a role. I hope that the Turkish Government and also the PKK will hear this, and I hope that we in Sweden can play that role, because we all, not only the Kurds, but also all the other minorities in Turkey, the Middle East and the whole world, benefit from a peace process. If we do not have peace there, we have a world full of anxiety, and then we have not only problems there but in other parts of the world too. I am pleased with the reply and clarification given by the Minister for Foreign Affairs here at the end.
i-8801aeda13ef4503-70	Madam President, I would like Thank you once again, Minister for Foreign Affairs Margot Wallström, for your words and for opening your arms and wanting the parties to turn to Sweden and to you. I hope that Sweden is not waiting for them to knock on our door without us going to them, because that is necessary. Sometimes it is also possible to force the parties when necessary. Massacre is happening and Erdo himself keeps the whole world in check when he says he fights terrorism. Terrorist acts are taking place more than ever, and more massacres are taking place than ever before. They've bombed the Kurds more than 316 times. The PKK also does things, and I disapprove of anything that affects civilians. Of course it is Turkey that is responsible, and that is why Turkey must also be forced to the negotiating table. In fact, it was a one-sided ceasefire, that is, only on the part of one party, and not on the part of both parties. I would therefore like to stress that our role, the role of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Sweden, is important in order to achieve a concrete peace plan and to force the parties to do so. I also hope, because there is no country in the world that has so many imprisoned journalists and human rights activists as Turkey, that Sweden particularly supports freedom of expression in Turkey. It's extremely important. If there was no freedom of expression and media freedom, we would not be told about the misery that exists there and the conflict that is going on.
i-8801aeda13ef4503-73	Madam President, I would like In order to achieve a future peaceful Middle East, I believe that the status of two communities needs to be improved and changed. One is Palestinians, and the other is Kurds. There are Kurds scattered in many different countries in the Middle East, and we are seeing what is happening in Palestine right now. So these are two important parts. I believe that the government has taken many major steps in terms of its view of the status and situation of these two communities. A unilateral ceasefire has been mentioned, and I think it is important. It is important for the elections to take place. It is important that the region has some peace and quiet until 1 November. I can also emphasise that Sweden has long been a friend of Turkey. This has been the case regardless of the government we have had, because in the longer term we would like to see Turkish membership of the European Union. We Social Democrats have said that we are in favour of Turkish membership. The question for us is not whether it will happen but when. We are, of course, aware that the country must protect its minorities, guarantee freedom of expression and stop violating human rights. It is also important when we discuss the Copenhagen criteria. There are clear demands for membership. We also believe that it is in the interests of both Sweden and Turkey that the Kurdish question be resolved peacefully. Sweden and the EU must continue to have good relations with Turkey, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs also expressed. I believe that we need to include Turkey rather than exclude or isolate it in terms of a peaceful solution to the conflict. Turkey is also an important future partner in relations with and developments throughout the Middle East. In that work, we are ready to help with what we can.
i-8801aeda13ef4503-79	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Members for their comments. I think, of course, that it is difficult to force someone to the negotiating table. It is always better if the parties want to come to a negotiating table. Regardless, we can only wish or offer a role. Through political dialogue and reform support, which we provide both bilaterally and through the EU, we support Swedish processes and actors in Turkey. It is also very important to have an open dialogue, which we have, not least through my colleague, of course, and the dialogue organised through the European Union. We are also talking about situations of freedom and rights in Turkey and the democratic future of the country. Right now, this is a rather difficult situation to assess. The election on 1 November will be very important for the further development of the country, both economically and politically. Despite the uncertainty, the key to the success of both the reforms and the peace process is that we continue the dialogue, by sometimes pushing but also by recognising what is progress and important contribution to the global situation, not least the migration and refugee situation. There we will continue to regard Turkey as a very central country to maintain open contact with. Thank you for the discussion and the debate.
i-8801aeda13ef4503-85	Madam President, I would like Stig Henriksson has asked me if I knew about the scholarships offered to the 37 Thai officers in the JAS Gripen affair with Thailand and if I can explain why this has been kept secret. Stig Henriksson has also asked how I believe that credibility should be regained when it comes to previous statements on counter-purchases and what more fundamental conclusions I draw from the event. In 2008, the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration signed an agreement with the Thai Air Force to sell an integrated air defence system for Gripen. In 2010, a further agreement was concluded on the sale of six Gripen aircraft, among others. The agreements also included courses in Sweden. The two agreements are covered by both commercial confidentiality and foreign secrecy. The training courses in question are included in the supply contracts and in the final purchase price. It is therefore not a question of counter-purchase. It is a term used to describe the situation when an export order is accompanied by commitments from the seller to purchase a certain quantity of goods from the country of destination or to make any kind of investment in the country. I would like to point out that the decisions on the sales were taken by the previous government. I take up my duties as Minister of Defence on 3 October 2014 and have therefore not been involved in any preparation or decision on these matters. The government takes these issues very seriously. I note that there are clear rules on what applies in relation to defence industrial transactions. I assume that these rules will be complied with.
i-8801aeda13ef4503-89	Madam President, I would like I must thank the Secretary of Defense for his answer. The background to the question is that what is now a military dictatorship, Thailand, has been allowed to buy JAS aircraft from Sweden. After many tours, JAS won the procurement, largely because the United States did not consider itself able to export fighter aircraft to a military dictatorship. A WikiLeaks document from the American Embassy in Bangkok has been leaked. It is clear precisely from this that the United States withdrew from military junta's aircraft procurement because American law in principle does not allow arms sales to dictatorships. JAS won a little on the walkover. It is certainly true, as the Minister for Defence points out, that the decisions on sales were made by the previous government in 2007, despite protests by the Left Party and the Green Party. But just as true is that it was Fredrik Reinfeldt's representative at the Prime Minister's post, Göran Persson, who together with royal houses, lobbyists and others had raked the manegen through vigorous sales activities. The marketing authorisation was already given in 2004. The problem was that the democratically elected President Thaksin Shinawatra explicitly wanted American planes. It was only after the arrival of the military junta that the JAS window was opened. Well, Swedish authorities have argued that no counter-purchases have been linked to the transaction. Technically, that is quite correct, as the Secretary of Defense himself said. But a few weeks ago something unknown was revealed so far: Sweden, for example, has offered a total of 37 Thai officers scholarships to study at Swedish universities and colleges. The Thai Armed Forces had to decide for themselves which people would be allowed to study in Sweden, and they wanted the training places. Technically, it's not a counter-purchase. It was never the thousands of tons of chicken or the same amount of rice that was discussed with Shinawatra. But why should this variant not be reported when the questions about offsets were asked? The Minister of Defence mentions that the agreements also included courses in Sweden. I understand that this is not normally about that kind of university education for a military junta hand-picked officer. It is usually about the training of pilots and technicians in connection with aircraft business, which is discussed openly in, for example, the Brazilian JAS business. This is something completely different. The natural follow-up questions are then about the Brazilian affair. It explicitly states that there are no counter-purchases, only technology transfer. It is funny enough to mention in the same breath what you are doing instead of counter-buying. But is this true? What guarantees are there that this type of arrangement or others are not included in the agreements? I have also asked the Minister for Defence a question about regaining credibility when these things are revealed. How does the minister view it?
i-8801aeda13ef4503-100	Madam President, I would like Some basic things – so that we are clear about what it is all about – are that the agreement has been signed with Thailand. The deal is about the sale of air defence systems with 12 Gripen C/D, Eireye management system and sea target robots. The deal is also about training in a number of areas and annual support and maintenance contracts. The agreements are classified and subject to both commercial confidentiality and foreign secrecy. The matter is also handled by the ISP, which is the authority we have that takes a position on export applications of this kind. They are responsible for day-to-day decision-making in individual cases relating to the export of armaments. This has been handled so to speak, according to the book. The King and the royal couple's participation is about a visit in 2005, and it was an initiative by the royal couple to show their gratitude to the Thai people, the Thai government and the Thai royal house for their efforts in connection with the 2004 tsunami disaster. They also met rescue personnel, volunteers and embassy staff. It has been stated that they participated in a state visit, but this was not a state visit. The formal state visit took place in 2003. There was also a business delegation at the time. Credibility and trust are issues that, of course, are very much governed by what one views these issues. The requirement that can be made is to comply with the regulations laid down by the Government and the Riksdag and that the control bodies that we have act in their full scope. That's the basic part. Then I can see that there has been a police report concerning, among other things, suspicions of irregularities in connection with the affair. This is something that the law enforcement authorities now have to deal with, so I am not going to comment on or engage in a discussion on, as it is today a police matter.
i-8801aeda13ef4503-105	Madam President, I would like I'd still like to remind you of the story. On September 19, 2006, tanks rolled into Bangkok. A military junta had taken power — martial law, curfew, repealed constitution, and a deposed government. Then Sweden will act, not against the dictatorship, but for the opportunity that now opened up to sell JAS aircraft. Urgent bulletins from the Swedish Embassy came only a few months after, in November 2006, that there was now an opportunity to sell fighter planes from Sweden. It was the military junta that was going to buy airplanes, and it was a whole new location. The letter also showed that the military junta had decided to increase the defence budget by 34% in 2007, so there was room for purchasing aircraft. You still have to see everything in a wider context, and for me this context does not feel very good. Let's get back to this with university education. It is perhaps as the Minister says that there are no counter-purchases, but that he himself was into maybe it is a bribery. It is not only that there is a police report from Swedish peace. Both the National Unit against corruption and the Institute against bribery believe that if there is a close link between the scholarship holders and the military junta, it may be a matter of bribery. There has been a police report, so now it remains to be seen how it all unfolds. There is no reason for any of us to comment on this further, but there are many problems with this type of business. And it would not be the first time that problems arise. However, when Chief Prosecutor Christer van den Kwast closes the pre-investigation into suspected bribery in June 2009, he notes that the defence industry group BAE Systems had made large hidden payments that could be linked to JAS campaigns in the Czech Republic, Hungary and South Africa. So now we have exported to Brazil, a country that is plagued by corruption and where enormous processes are currently taking place that have also thrown their shadows at the President who is shortly visiting Sweden. Does the Secretary of Defense feel confident that the Brazilian affair, which by magic has become completely spotless?
i-8801aeda13ef4503-113	Madam President, I would like Of course, you can ask speculative questions about most of the things about different types of business and get the feeling that it is not right. What I have to relate to is whether the regulations and systems established by the government and parliament have been followed. As long as I cannot say that it has not been done, I have no reason to enter into discussions where I speculate or believe anything about either one or the other. It is the regulations that apply, and that is the only approach that I have. When it came to education, Stig Henriksson had a wording that I had to correct. He said something about the minister being into bribery. I have not been into anything at all, but I have just noted that there has been a police report. For this reason, I cannot enter into this kind of discussion. The law enforcement bodies will have to do that, and the whole thing will have its course. Much of history is something that I have not been involved in at all in the performance of my duties, either in preparation or in decision-making. So I'm not going to get into that discussion either. I simply note that it is the regulations that must always be respected and complied with. Until it cannot be said that different regulations have been broken, I have no reason to doubt that this has been done properly. But we'll see what comes out of the investigation in connection with the police report. After that, we will have to consider how to view things.
i-8801aeda13ef4503-117	Madam President, I would like I would like to say straight away that I did not put any words in the Minister's mouth, but it was my way of saying that it was perhaps not counter-purchase but bribery. Maybe that word game would fit right here. The most important question I asked was about something that we have not touched on so far, namely: What – if any – more fundamental conclusions can be drawn from the event? Given what happened in the JAS campaigns in the Czech Republic, Hungary, South Africa, Thailand, how safe can you be with this kind of business? Is there a sufficient regulatory framework? In the case of Brazil, Swedish companies are also involved in the so-called Petrobras scandal. Prosecutor Carlos Fernando dos Santo Lima believes that he has evidence that Skanska's employees have personally paid bribes to Petrobra's managers, he claims. Skanska led some of the corporate consortia that had contracts with Petrobras. According to Ekot, one of the chiefs of state Petrobra in police questioning has admitted that he has received millions of SEK in bribes from Skanska's representative in Brazil. Well, Skanska has nothing to do with airplane business. On the other hand, the Brazilian aircraft manufacturer Embraer has recently signed a contract with Saab's strategic partner regarding the production of new Gripen and international sales. This Saab partner is now being investigated for billion-dollar nuts. Aircraft manufacturer Embraer is investigated by US authorities for bribery in Argentina, in the Dominican Republic and now also internally in Brazil. In the light of the affairs that have been done and the culture in Brazil that is difficult to deal with, there is good reason to consider how safe one can be with the current regulatory framework. Of course, it is good not to speculate, but one might consider taking any initiative to further ensure that it works according to plan.
i-8801aeda13ef4503-122	Madam President, I would like I have previously explained my view on this. There is a regulatory framework and bodies that review the guidelines established by the Government and the Riksdag in relation to this type of business. There must be a comprehensive basis and careful analysis, so such a deal does not happen lightly. As long as I do not have clear indications of mismanagement, I will not engage in a speculative view of one or the other or discuss foreign examples that are not really related to the subject matter. I note that there is a police report. If bribery is committed, there is legislation for it. In that case, it shall be applied in full. We'll see what the investigation finds out. Then we will have to consider the possible conclusions to be drawn. However, as a minister, I cannot go into such matters when other judicial bodies have taken over the proceedings.
i-8801aeda13ef4503-125	Madam President, I would like Anette Åkesson has asked me whether the level of Swedish households' indebtedness is, in my opinion, a problem or not, and how Swedish households' indebtedness should be compared to the situation in other countries. Since the mid-1990s, household debt has grown faster than their income, which is reflected in a rising debt ratio. The debt-to-GDP ratio, calculated as total household liabilities relative to their disposable income, stood at 173 per cent at the end of 2014. However, the calculation of the total debt-to-GDP ratio also includes households that are completely debt-free, thus reducing the total ratio. According to an analysis by the Riksbank, the average debt ratio for households with mortgages was good 310 per cent in Sweden in 2014. Internationally, large increases in household debt have tended to precede deeper and more prolonged economic downturns. The annual growth rate of household debt in Sweden was 7 per cent in August this year. International studies have shown that relatively high-indebted households reduce their consumption to a greater extent than other households in the event of economic disruption. With a larger proportion of relatively high-indebted households in the Swedish economy, the Swedish economy becomes more vulnerable to economic disruptions, such as a fall in housing prices. Households' interest rate sensitivity also increases with rising debts. When interest rates are normalised, households will need to reduce either their consumption or saving. High and increasing indebtedness thus presents risks, particularly for macroeconomic stability. It is therefore important that households with high indebtedness amortise their loans. The forthcoming amortisation requirement aims to strengthen amortisation behaviour, especially among highly indebted households. With an amortisation requirement, the risk of household indebtedness having a negative impact on macroeconomic and financial stability is reduced. Swedish households' indebtedness measured as a proportion of disposable income or measured as a proportion of GDP is relatively high compared to other countries. However, it may be misleading to compare levels of debt between different countries, as there are major structural differences. It is more interesting to see how debt develops. What distinguishes Sweden and Norway in particular in an international comparison is that indebtedness and house prices have continued to increase at a relatively rapid rate since the financial crisis. What also distinguishes Sweden in an international comparison is that Swedish households amortise at a low rate. In Finland, all households amortise at the request of creditors. Denmark, where grace was allowed in the 21st century, has today limited the grace period. The financial crisis affected the mortgage and housing markets of many European countries. In Denmark and the Netherlands, for example, house prices fell by around 25 per cent, and households became much more cautious about taking mortgages, which led to a reduction in the debt ratio. In Sweden, the financial crisis only led to a temporary slowdown in house prices and debt growth. The government monitors the development of household indebtedness both in respect of mortgages and other forms of indebtedness. At the same time, it is important to emphasise that we should proceed cautiously and not take too many or too large steps that are in themselves at risk of triggering uncertainty and concern. Now it is the amortisation requirement that we are working on.
i-8801aeda13ef4503-134	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for Finance for his answer. I am grateful for the opportunity to discuss these questions, as I am interested in a slightly clearer answer. Just comparing us with other Nordic countries is not so relevant, partly because they have a high share of property, partly because our welfare systems are relatively similar. The question was whether the problem of high indebtedness was partly the impact of welfare systems. Most agree that the high level of indebtedness is linked to the fact that Swedes more than those in most other countries own their housing. This is something that the state promotes through various political decisions. Furthermore, Swedes borrow mainly from their own residents, not for consumption or speculation. Generally speaking, Swedes handle their mortgages. Even during the 90s crisis with extreme interest rates, mortgages were paid and consumption was reduced. This is in itself a problem, because especially in times of relatively weak exports, we are dependent on a strong domestic market for growth. At the same time, crises are not caused by household behaviour; on the contrary, households are affected by crises caused by others, be they banks or commercial real estate companies. Increasing debts follow the price development of the housing market, and the price development of the housing market is partly due to government and parliament decisions. At the same time, household assets grow with debt. The debt ratio, as the Minister for the Financial Market said, is the total debt of households relative to their disposable income, i.e. household income after tax. It would then reasonably be important for Swedish households to pay very high taxes. In this way, the debt ratio rises with the help of Per Bolund, although neither loans nor net income would increase as the S-MP government now increases taxes. I think we all agree that we use tax revenue to make a lot of sense. Social security, health care, school and childcare are among the major items. This is what people in other countries, who are more renting their homes and do not have mortgages, have to pay off their remaining relatively higher disposable income. Taking account of Swedish social security assets, EU statistics show that Sweden does not stand out significantly. As politicians, we depend on having a good basis for decision-making. I have respect for the Riksbank, which has the task of safeguarding financial stability. It is important that all problems are taken seriously and that deviations are followed up. It is also important that measures are put in place where there are risks and where there would be major consequences if something went wrong, i.e. against financial institutions. However, I would like to know how the situation really is in Sweden regarding households before decisions are made that further raise thresholds to enter the housing market. Given that Swedes own their homes to a greater extent, that we manage our loans, that, unfortunately, the price development of housing is increasing steadily, largely because of political failures, that we have high taxes and therefore relatively lower disposable income and that we have welfare systems that largely catch us up, I would like to ask: Is really, on the basis of these findings, the Swedish households' indebtedness then a problem?
i-8801aeda13ef4503-142	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Anette Åkesson, both for the interpellation and for the opportunity to discuss these important issues! It is true, as Anette Åkesson says, that there are structural factors that have caused household debt and house prices to increase. A large proportion of owned housing is an example of this, but there are other factors as well. What is usually highlighted in analyses is, for example, a reduction in taxes on housing, property taxes, but also other measures have contributed to increasing the costs of housing and thus indebtedness. Not least, it is about the functioning of the housing market. I am pleased that there is a consensus that more steps need to be taken to increase construction. This in itself can reduce the poor matching when many more people want housing than there is housing available. Especially the big cities. Here the government has come up with a very ambitious programme to increase housing construction, not least in the part where there is a high demand for rental apartments among our young people, which also contributes to the absence of an increase in indebtedness. It is quite obvious to those who follow the situation in the housing market that there is a problem here. The regulations that have been in force up to now have not been sufficient for the construction of small rental apartments to start. I believe that an active housing policy will be needed to reduce the long-term risks as well. It is absolutely true that Anette Åkesson points out that we need a good basis for decision-making in order to be able to analyse the situation and think about what further measures may need to be taken. There I am pleased that we have competent authorities that provide us with analyses and data. To be honest, the authorities do not always agree with each other in all details but can come up with different views. It's about this whole complex issue. We see that the debate is lively, and people on the same basis of decision, with the same facts, can come to different conclusions. That is why it is important that we have a broad debate and that many different points of view can be made. When I have discussions with the responsible authorities, I note that they are getting a broader consensus that the risks of household indebtedness need to be taken seriously. That is not something we can turn a blind eye to. That is not something that we can hope will not have an effect. With increasing indebtedness, risks in the financial system increase. Of course, that is something that we take very seriously. One example of this communication is that the three responsible authorities, the Riksbank, the Swedish National Debt Office and the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority, jointly invited us in a debate article in politics, in a broad sense, to take action. At the time, it was above all a question of the amortisation requirement. I am pleased that we have jointly, in joint discussions and with broad support, managed to arrive at the conclusion that we believe that Finansinspektionen should have a mandate to implement an amortisation requirement precisely to reduce the long-term risks and come back to a healthy amortisation culture where it is as obvious to pay back on loans as it is to take out loans in order to be able to finance, for example, a home. So, from the government's side, we are constantly striving to have talks, to try to discuss ourselves up to an analysis of the situation, to try to find as broad a consensus as possible and, if possible, to find common positions as to what tools we should have and what measures should be taken. It is a tradition, one might call it, in Swedish politics that when it comes to the functioning of the financial market and financial risks, one tries to find broad solutions that as many as possible in the Swedish parliament can support. That attitude will continue with both me and the government.
i-8801aeda13ef4503-150	Madam President, I would like It was a nice answer in many ways. Everyone is served by the broad consensus on these important issues. It's about basic conditions for other things that happen in Sweden, and for many actors it's important issues. The risks must be taken seriously. The main reasons for household indebtedness depend on what affects the housing market. Since it has been built too little in Sweden in recent decades, supply has not grown with demand. This contributes significantly to raising house prices. But urbanisation, interest rates and tax levels also affect house prices and thus household loans. Factors that directly affect households are the availability of credit, the cyclical situation, the interest rebates, the development of income and taxes, such as property tax, on which the Minister for the Financial Market was concerned. We have a political opportunity to influence on the one hand things relating to the housing market, on the other hand things that affect households' decisions to borrow in other ways. The fact that the economy is going well and inflation is low is not a bad thing. Furthermore, the Alliance strengthened the resilience of the financial system by significantly increasing the requirements for large banks' ability to bear their own losses, and Finansinspektionen's resources for supervision, regulation and more have more than doubled. In addition, the Alliance carried out a number of reforms aimed at speeding up housing construction, including modernised planning regulations, improved construction conditions and simplified rules for lettings to make better use of the existing stock. The effects have now begun to be felt, but more remains to be done. In the autumn, the Moderates propose further concrete measures to accelerate the pace of housing construction and to have a more mobile housing market, such as review of appeal proceedings and the role of the County Administrative Board in the construction process, reduction of noise regulations, review of land restrictions, presumption rents and subletting, to name but a few. But just as interesting is what the government intends to do. Housing is not the main theme of this debate, but the debt itself. I do not feel that I am getting a clear answer to whether the government believes that the level of Swedish household indebtedness under our specific Swedish conditions is a problem or not, although I understand that one sees the high risks. My supplementary questions are therefore:
i-8801aeda13ef4503-156	What is the opinion of the Financial Market Committee on the proposals for measures put forward by the RIKS bank? Are they reasonable and directed in the right direction, and what are the risks that they contribute to making it even more difficult for particularly young and foreign born to enter the housing market? It is important to hear what the Minister for Financial Markets thinks. What can the Swedish people's friend do – that the government is on R iksbanken's line or that they, for example, reintroduce property tax, as has been suggested by several actors? Or is it a reduction in interest rebates, which is also often debated?
i-8801aeda13ef4503-158	Madam President, I would like As Anette Åkesson says, this is a big and complex issue that we have to deal with, and there are many aspects that need to be taken into account when deciding on measures. It is always very difficult in politics to weigh short-term effects, which come from all the measures taken at political level. Measures related to the financial sector and household indebtedness can affect, for example, consumption, entry into the housing market – as Anette Åkesson also mentions – as well as the distribution between different groups. The effects are of course very important to consider. But they must also be balanced against the longer-term effects of doing nothing. Are we building up financial risks? If we increase the risk of financial turmoil or, at worst, a financial crisis, it can have far more dramatic effects than the much smaller impact of the measures in the short term. This balance is a difficulty that we all have in politics. We must take this issue very seriously, of course. As regards, for example, the amortisation requirement, we also did such a job, in which we tried to analyse the effects this could have on the entry of different groups into the housing market. We carried out analyses of the effects of an amortisation requirement on the level proposed by Finansinspektionen, for example, on consumption. It was estimated that the effects are still very limited and probably negligible in the long term. But we have to do that kind of analysis all the time. We also need to see what issues might reduce the financial risks in the system. The fact that debt is among the factors that increase risks, we are probably quite agreed on in politics and among assessors. Then there are household assets, which are also larger than they have been in the past. To what extent, then, do they reduce the risks? It is also an assessment that we must make. We know that debts are fixed over time – you can of course pay them off, but they will not change by new financial conditions – while the assets are much more variable. Much of the assets of Swedish households, for example, are in the value of homes, and if we then get a rapid fall in housing prices, the value of the assets decreases while the loans remain. It can also be as we have seen in other countries, that is, if we get a housing price fall, the economic cycle and the economy as a whole will be affected, which can also affect stock exchange rates. This may cause other financial assets to fall in value at the same time. In Anette Åkesson's question, another question is also implicated, namely: If we now have a welfare system, will it affect the analysis? Are the risks less? It is an interesting question that I think we, and perhaps the academy in particular, can deepen and conduct research on. We can also look at examples in our environment and in ourselves. We had a financial crisis here in Sweden in the 1990s. Even then we had a welfare system and a security system. We had stabilising effects in the economy. Recently, Denmark has gone through a rather severe financial turmoil with 25% cases on the housing market. In just a year and a half they had one case in bnp by 8 percentage points. Denmark, too, is a welfare country, so it is clear that this in itself was not a complete protection against financial unrest in the economy. These are analyses that I think we should take with us. I very much value our welfare system, but I do not believe that we should see it as a guarantee that financial unrest cannot arise in our economies too. We must probably try to prepare ourselves and take steps to avoid financial risks as far as possible.
i-8801aeda13ef4503-167	Madam President, I would like I fully agree that we must avoid financial unrest and crises. There's no discussion about that. It has a lot of negative effects. However, for example, the 90s crisis was not caused by Swedish households, but it was by commercial actors that contributed to it. Rather, households suffered the consequences. Of course, the fact that households are heavily leveraged has several disadvantages. It increases the vulnerability of future interest rate increases or recessions, and individual households are given less room for manoeuvre. Today, households have low housing costs due to the interest rate situation. They keep the consumption going, which keeps the country's economy going. But it's a connection that applies in general. Given specific Swedish conditions such as a high share of ownership of our own home, that mortgages are managed and that we have high taxes and extended welfare systems, it is important that we have decision-making bases that are adapted for us before we possibly go further with proposals that would risk hitting both the economy and those who already have difficulties entering the market. I thank the Minister for Finance. I hope, however, that – with the help of academia or other actors – we will soon get some clearer information about how the government stands at the level of Swedish households' indebtedness based on our concrete conditions, and that further political proposals will be made, preferably inspired by moderate movements, which will enable housing construction to increase more.
i-8801aeda13ef4503-170	Madam President, I would like Again: Thank you for an interesting discussion and an interesting conversation! I think these are very important issues that deserve to be debated and discussed widely. I think these are issues that we really need to address when we do the further analyses. I hope that the interest I see from the opposition in terms of financial risks and household indebtedness is also reflected in a desire for us to sit down together and try to find solutions forward. I noticed that interest in the amortisation requirement, and I am very pleased about that. I think it gives a great strength to the Swedish economy. It gives a great strength to all of us who act on the housing market when we know that it is the conditions that will apply over time and that will not change depending on election results and the like. From the government's side, we have chosen not to, while we are in the process of introducing the amortisation requirement, come up with new measures and say: This is what we are going to do, and we are not going to do this. What we have said is that we want to continue to hold talks with the opposition. We invite you to further discussions and to analyse developments in the housing market. It is also a question of discussing what types of measures are included in the discussion. What brings the various parties to find solutions and to reduce the risks of financial unrest in the future? There, of course, we, the parties that are part of the government, want to contribute our views and positions. But I think it is a pretty good condition for finding common positions not to lock the positions too much but to come in with a listening attitude. It is both my position and that of the government that we want to hear the analyses, hold talks and try to find as broad agreements and as broad a way forward as possible, where we have a large part of the Swedish parliament behind the measures.
i-38wAr2P9r8TNRSpbXbiJJX	I would like to welcome the Minister. Questions are answered today by Minister for Finance Magdalena Andersson, Minister Ibrahim Baylan, Minister Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht, Minister Anders Ygeman and Minister for Culture and Democracy Alice Bah Kuhnke. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson answers both general policy questions and questions within his own area of responsibility.
i-8801aeda13ef4503-177	Mr President, I would like to My question is addressed to Minister of Culture and Democracy Alice Bah Kuhnke. It cannot have escaped anyone that Swedish film policy is rocking. As early as May, the Minister for Culture promised to tear up Swedish film policy as we know it today, and the budget bill made this promise a reality. We welcome the government's desire to review and modernise film policy, but we regret the way it has happened. It is an unskillable process in which the government has begun at the very wrong end. The model agreement that has served us since the 1960s has been terminated without any investigation of the consequences or of what alternatives should exist instead. We know nothing about which film policy objectives should apply, we know nothing about how the support should be distributed, we know nothing about which parties are supposed to contribute and we do not know how the government views the long-term prospects of the film. In May, the Minister for Culture of DN Debate promised a film policy bill before the end of the year. So my questions are: Will there be a bill? When's it coming? What will it include?
i-8801aeda13ef4503-181	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mr Lavesson for the question. Swedish film is important. Swedish film needs the best conditions to continue to be important but also to be able to develop. The film agreement that the Government terminated on 31 December 2016 is a halting film agreement. It has been limping for many years. The many different representatives of the industry who have not sat around the table and who are not one of those who have left the table have called for a change in the conditions for the Swedish film. My hope is that we will be able to come to Parliament with a bill on the future of Swedish cinema in order for it to be a discussion conducted in Parliament's Chamber. But since it does not involve legislative changes, it does not have to be a bill. It may well be a letter. The goal, however, is to discuss the Swedish film, because it is worth it.
i-8801aeda13ef4503-186	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for Culture for his answer, but it is a little surprising. The government has thrown Filmsverige into an uncertain situation, and you have no control over what the consequences will be and no idea what will come instead. We are told that there will be some new form of film policy, but it is unclear what it will be. Whatever the case, this means one of the largest paradigm shifts in Swedish film policy. Furthermore, it is now unclear whether this should be subject to parliamentary scrutiny or how it should do so. It doesn't make any sense. Mr President, I would like to Parliament is not a rounding mark. Film policy and film policy objectives, as well as film funding and long-term prospects, are of course something that the Riksdag will both debate and make decisions about. You don't do that with a letter. The Moderates and the Alliance assume that the government will stick to its previous commitment and what the Minister of Culture announced in May and will come back with a bill, and I would like to know when it will come. Otherwise, we will look at what tools we have at our disposal to ensure that the government comes with a bill.
i-8801aeda13ef4503-191	Mr President, I would like to I look forward to further discussions. I really hope it will be a bill, because it is Swedish film worth. I am also pleased that the Member of Parliament's party, the former Minister of Culture, initiated the long process of dismissal of the film agreement. It is a process that has been going on for one and a half years, involving representatives of all actors in the film industry. It is a well-thought-out and well-thought-out process. The remaining discussions and the decisions we are to come up with will remain. It's part of the process. I sincerely hope that the Moderates and the other parties in the opposition are part of this discussion so that we do the best for Swedish film in the long term.
i-8801aeda13ef4503-195	Mr President, I would like to Never before has Sweden had such a massive asylum pressure as today. This pressure will not only mean huge changes for society at large, but it will also cost Swedish taxpayers several billions of dollars. The only thing the one-question government cares about is continuing to finance a eroded and derailed migration policy. One might wonder how much it will cost exactly, and the fact is that these are enormous amounts of money that one can only dream of. The government's planned tax increases are not enough.
i-8801aeda13ef4503-199	Mr President, I would like to The budget bill submitted by the Government to the Riksdag contains large and extensive welfare efforts. It is about improving the school so that the children can get better support. It is about improving the care of the elderly so that our elderly will have a safer everyday life. It is a question of reducing taxes on pensioners, especially those who have a little lower pensions. We also invest in job creation measures, such as more people getting access to education, infrastructure and housing construction. It is correct, as Markus Wiechel says, that we have a refugee situation in Europe. 60 million people are on the run in the world. Some of them go to Europe and Sweden. It will of course affect public finances in the near future, even if it can be deducted from aid. At the same time, it should be borne in mind that in the longer term, more people who work also involve higher tax revenues.
i-8801aeda13ef4503-201	Mr President, I would like to I'm tired of hypocrisy, lies and broken promises. I am also tired of irresponsible politicians who let Swedish welfare go to death because they continue to defend a failed migration policy and an illusion of a blessing. While talking about doing a good deed, it is in fact Swedish prosperity that enables generous aid. The government is clear about its priorities. Swedish welfare is being slaughtered, and it is obvious that it is largely our sick, our students, our pensioners and our entrepreneurs who have to pay the bill. The Prime Minister spoke of empathy in yesterday's party leader debate. How, then, can the Minister of Finance conscientiously defend this kind of priority?
i-8801aeda13ef4503-204	Mr President, I would like to I find it easy to defend the priority that we should reduce taxes on pensioners, especially those who have really low pensions. It is not a priority that the Swedish Democrats made, because they stopped this tax cut last autumn. Otherwise, pensioners would already have had lower taxes. I am pleased that we can now come forward with this proposal despite the fact that the Swedish Democrats have done everything they could to stop it – about breaking promises. I can also easily defend the fact that we spend more money on the school so that the school will be better for all children. We spend more money on preschool so that preschool will get better. We'll spend more money in the out-of-homes so Fritis can get better. We also spend more money on care for the elderly so that the care for the elderly will be better. We are making a wide range of welfare efforts in the budget. Calling the extra resources we put in the budget for slaughter is as close to a lie as you can get.
i-8801aeda13ef4503-211	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister for Rural Affairs Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht. Today, figures were presented indicating that the number of dairy entrepreneurs and dairy cows has decreased since summer 2014. It has hardly escaped anyone that it is a tough situation for our milk producers, nor the Minister for Rural Development. At the beginning of September, a crisis meeting was held in Brussels when agriculture ministers discussed the situation of dairy farmers. The result of the meeting was that targeted support measures would be taken, and Sweden received 76 million. The Minister for Rural Development said that this money would start to be paid out in October. We are now in October, but I am aware that there are no dairy farmers who have benefited from this money yet. When will this money start to be paid out, the Minister for Rural Development?
i-8801aeda13ef4503-215	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. The money will be delivered from the EU to Sweden during the month of October. The Swedish Board of Agriculture does not have time to pay them out during October, but it will be in November. This is a serious crisis for dairy farmers. It is not only these efforts that have been made for them, but when the government's entry we sat early in a high-level meeting with the whole industry to find solutions in both the short and long term. The crisis has its origins in global overproduction. The highest prices were in February 2014. When the crisis came, the then government did nothing, but we were put in a tough situation. It had not even been ensured that there was a rural programme in place.
i-8801aeda13ef4503-219	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. I understand that there is a government decision saying that the money will start to be paid out in November. It is positive if that is the case. The Commission provided the opportunity to step up with national money corresponding to the amount allocated by the Commission, i.e. 76 million. I'm interested in knowing how to deal with that issue. It is good that you have mentioned a number of measures, but many measures that have been presented may not have really reached all the way. The credit guarantees presented do not even the industry want. You have recently sent down a proposal for restructuring of assisted areas to Brussels, which means that many Norrland companies will have a significant deterioration. They've had to wait for the money. How do you plan to work in the future, and will the government step up with the 76 million?
i-8801aeda13ef4503-225	Mr President, I would like to I can tell you in this House that we are going to co-finance. In the very near future, we will provide more detailed information on this matter. Kristina Yngwe spoke of national aid to Norrland, where a framework was negotiated when we joined the EU in 1995. The framework has only been fully used for a couple of three years in the 1990s. Then it has not been fully exploited. But for the first time since the 1990s, the government has allocated money so that the framework can be used to the full. We know that the farmers who are up there are particularly crowded.
i-8801aeda13ef4503-229	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask a question to Minister of Energy Ibrahim Baylan. In order to create a long-term energy policy, the government has invited to cross-block talks in a special Energy Commission. The issue of electricity supply is crucial both for industry and for individual households, not least in terms of ensuring sufficient power to meet the need for electricity during all hours of the day. Yesterday we were told that the nuclear reactors in Oskarshamn will be phased out. Overall, it appears that four reactors will be phased out by 2020.
i-8801aeda13ef4503-233	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mrs Westerén for her question. It's urgent. It is not surprising that we have received the information about the reactors both yesterday and today. They were announced already in the spring. The whole energy policy approach that exists today and is adopted by the Riksdag is based on this. In 2009, the then government reached an agreement, which subsequently led to a parliamentary decision in 2010. The starting point was that the 70's and 80's reactors we have in Sweden will need to be decommissioned. The then government believed that they would be replaced by new reactors. The decommissioning has begun, but not new reactors. What do the four reactors mean? According to all independent experts and authorities, we will continue to have a surplus of electricity in Sweden. This will mean that we can support ourselves – our industries and households – with electricity but also continue to be exporters. In the long term, of course, there is a challenge as the remaining six reactors age.
i-8801aeda13ef4503-239	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for Energy for his answer. One development we have been able to see in the Swedish energy market is the increased share of renewable energy. From a sustainability point of view, of course, this is positive, but it is challenging in terms of secure electricity supply 24 hours a day. How does the Minister for Energy view the future of renewable energy in the framework of our energy system?
i-8801aeda13ef4503-242	Mr President, I would like to This is precisely what has led the government to set up an Energy Commission that includes all eight parliamentary parties. Even if, according to all forecasts, we manage the four reactors in the sense that we will continue to have an electricity surplus, we are today without a solution for the remaining six reactors, which, according to the owners, will be phased out by the 2040s. The Energy Commission has begun its work, and we are precisely in the phase of increasing our knowledge. What, then, is the solution in the future? Sweden has good conditions for a number of things. We already have bioenergy as the largest renewable energy source in Sweden; it can be developed. The second largest source is hydropower; it can be developed. We are a country where there is a lot of wind; it is also possible to develop. We are also very good at energy efficiency. We should be aware that the use of electricity has not increased in Sweden since the 80s despite the fact that we have become more people and our industry produces much more than before.
i-8801aeda13ef4503-247	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for the Minister for Finance. The number of new cases of illness, not least mental illness among women, is increasing. It's troubling. In addition, sick periods are longer among the newly ill. In this situation, the government chooses to propose to abolish the lower time limit in health insurance, despite strong criticism from the government's own authorities, not least the Swedish Social Insurance Agency. The pressure on the Social Insurance Agency's handler will thus already be even greater, as more people remain longer in insurance. The Government proposes an extra 1 billion during the planning period to strengthen Försäkringskassan's management. However, these funds are already needed today. The draft budget and the budgetary implications of this for the state show that the cases of illness will increase and fewer will go to work. My question, therefore, is: from what should funds be taken to the increased costs that will arise when the time limit is removed?
i-8801aeda13ef4503-253	Mr President, I would like to I thank Lotta Finstorp for the question. She raises an issue where there is a deep ideological conflict between the Moderates and the Social Democrats. We Social Democrats think it is unreasonable in a modern Sweden that the first thing that happens after the first shock has occurred when you have received a serious disease statement is that you should start worrying about whether you will be able to make a living and keep your health insurance. I don't think it makes sense for us to have it that way in Sweden in 2015. On the other hand, the Moderates think so. There is a profound ideological difference here. We think it is good to remove the more distant parentheses. We believe that it is better for people who get serious illnesses to concentrate on getting healthy rather than worrying about their livelihoods. That is why we are making this change, and we have financed it in the budget.
i-8801aeda13ef4503-257	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, but I do not think I got an answer to my question. As early as 2006, the Swedish GovernmentPersson own investigator proposed to have specific time limits in health insurance. The reform is out of it. Rehabilitation and work placement are important prerequisites for getting people back to work. The introduction of work is now abolished and seen as a saving in the budget, but those who are on sick leave get a much more difficult and longer way back to work. I hope that the answer will be no to the question I am about to ask: is the abolition of the longer deadline part of reaching the government's goal of having the EU's lowest unemployment rate by 2020, that is to say, that people should continue to be hidden in long sick leave, as before 2008?
i-8801aeda13ef4503-261	Mr President, I would like to The answer is no. That is why we have formulated the unemployment target in such a way. We want to achieve this by increasing employment and increasing the number of hours worked. This excludes what Lotta Finstorp is trying to indicate. We do not propose to delete the time limit. However, I think it is important to be safe if you get a serious diagnosis. It goes without saying that there should be time limits in health insurance and that you should be able to get the support needed to get back to work. Like Lotta Finstorp, I am very concerned about mental illness among young people. Unlike Lotta Finstorp, however, I want to bet against mental ill health among young people. That is why we have a special initiative in the budget proposal that is now on Parliament's table. I think it would be very good for young people if it went through.
i-8801aeda13ef4503-264	Mr President, I would like to My question is to the Minister for Finance. The Left Party, the Green Party, the Center Party and now the People's Party are all parties that are willing to do something about the growing risks of a housing bubble and the government's running costs and are therefore prepared to discuss a reduction in interest rebates. But the Social Democrats, driven by Moderates, resist. However, the expertise is clear. Last week, the Conjuncture Institute's long-standing Director General Mats Dillén warned of a housing bubble. Two weeks ago, the International Monetary Fund warned and proposed a halving of interest rebates in the six to ten years term. In today's newspaper, President of the Council of Finance Ministers John Hassler calls the downsizing of the interest-rate rebates 'no-brainer', i.e. that there is nothing to think about.
i-8801aeda13ef4503-268	Mr President, I would like to Håkan Svenneling raises a very important and serious issue. We have seen for a long time that house prices in Sweden have risen and household indebtedness has increased. This is a serious situation in which we need to act. This government has done so, for example, because in this budget bill we have the biggest housing policy initiative in 20 years, which has been put on the table of Parliament. It is an effort to build more housing, more cheap rentals, so that young people and students have the opportunity to move where jobs and housing are. This is an important step in bringing down household indebtedness – actually bringing up housing construction. Another way is to introduce amortisation requirements. Here the government has had constructive talks with the Left Party and the bourgeois parties and will come forward with such a proposal. But, of course, we must continue to monitor developments and see if we need to come up with further measures.
i-8801aeda13ef4503-272	Mr President, I would like to I share the view of the Minister of Finance on the housing package. This is a very important initiative that we are getting in Sweden now. The Minister of Finance is raising the forthcoming demand for repayments. However, as Governor Stefan Ingves stated in a debate article, the proposal for amortisation requirements is not sufficient to have a greater impact on household indebtedness. Interest rebates are also deeply problematic from a distribution point of view, as 80 per cent of the contributions go to society's 20 per cent richest. This is due, among other things, to the lack of a ceiling on how much deduction you can make. The lack of ceilings also leads to an imbalance between city and country. Eighty per cent of those who deduct more than 100 000 SEK are according to the parliamentary investigation service in the cities. In addition, interest rebates are unevenly distributed across the country, where rural areas are losers and the residential areas of big cities are winners. A report from RUT shows that the average deduction in large cities is twice as high as in rural municipalities.
i-8801aeda13ef4503-277	Mr President, I would like to Håkan Svenneling is certainly right that it is clear that there is no distribution policy accuracy in the interest rebates, to put it mildly. It is the households with higher incomes that have also bought the larger and more expensive houses and thus have the higher interest rebates. As Håkan Svenneling says, there is an imbalance between the city and the countryside. Then we should also say that in the cities you have to spend more of your income on buying the houses, because they are more expensive to buy in the big cities, so that's why the interest rebates are higher. We will continue to follow developments, and we would like to continue to discuss the matter with other parties in the Riksdag. Is it the case that developments continue, of course, we cannot rule out that we will have to take further action on the part of the government? If the situation becomes urgent, no measures can be ruled out.
i-8801aeda13ef4503-281	Mr President, I would like to My question is addressed to Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson. Having a job to go to is about security and the opportunity to get a place in society. Today, two groups in particular do not enter the labour market. It is young people without education and new arrivals who have a low level of education. Right now we are seeing an increased refugee storm to Sweden, not least with people from war Syria fleeing to Sweden. Unfortunately, the government chooses a little unilaterally to show the image that in that group it would only be highly educated people, while the vast majority of the refugees who come now are in fact in low education, which of course requires the government to act to create pathways into the labour market for that group. Independent experts say that the way in is about simpler jobs, models with lower entry wages to start with to be able to enter and get an entry job into the labour market. It's better to have a job to go to than to go unemployed. My question to the Minister for Finance is: why is it better to have a social benefit than to have a simple job to go to?
i-8801aeda13ef4503-286	Mr President, I would like to Mats Persson raises an urgent issue. I think it is important that we see the people who now move to Sweden as individuals, in the same way as we see everyone else who lives in Sweden as individuals. Of course, people should receive support in the labour market based on the needs and support they need, regardless of where in the world they were born. That is precisely the policy of the government. Mats Persson addresses the need for education by pointing out that it is mainly people with lower education who find it difficult to get into the labour market. It has been very clear after the crisis that unemployment is falling back into groups that have training but have continued to increase in groups that do not have training. That is why the government is making a major new boost in knowledge in the budget and is increasing the number of jobs and places of education through labour market policy and education policy by 80 000 at the end of its term of office, so it is a massive effort to get more people into work that way. Further efforts may then be needed.
i-8801aeda13ef4503-288	Mr President, I would like to No one questions the importance of education and training. But what is needed now is labour market reforms that enable people to get a simple job, an entry job into the labour market. There, the government closes down with clinical precision all the ways in by raising the RUT deduction and by not making the reforms needed to create apprenticeships in the labour market for people. The question that many people ask is: If you do not currently have an education and are not motivated to attend an education, what job should you take on the Swedish labour market? What the government is doing now in its budget is closing the road and making the way to the first job longer by reducing RUT deductions, increasing taxes on labour and simply doing everything you can to counteract the development that we still want to see, with there being more ways in, more entry jobs, more simple jobs. I repeat my question to the Minister for Finance: why is it better for people to go on welfare benefits than to enter the labour market with a simple job?
i-8801aeda13ef4503-292	Mr President, I would like to I think Mats Persson needs to learn a little more about the change that we are making at the RUT deduction before he concludes that it will close the door for many people in the labour market. What we're doing is lowering the ceiling for how much you have to pull off. Those who pull off the roof are 2 percent of RUT buyers. Of them, 1 per cent are estimated to be able to transfer the deduction to the other person in the household, so in fact 1 per cent of RUT buyers are affected. They have an average income of SEK 960 000 a year, i.e. almost millions of dollars. My assessment is that many of them will be able to continue to purchase RUT services even after this subsidy from the state is gone. Indeed, the fact that it would have a major impact on the ability of immigrants to enter the labour market is nonsense. On the other hand, we need to pursue an active policy for people to enter. I do not share the People's Party's policy of having very low wages in Sweden. I think it's important that you can have a salary that you can live on. But of course we will have to work with more doors in and more ways in. So does the government, including in the fast track that we have proposed in the budget.
i-8801aeda13ef4503-296	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask a question to the Minister for Rural Affairs Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht. The demand for organic food has increased a lot in Sweden in recent years. Last year consumption went up by 38 per cent, and only the first half of this year has gone up by 50 per cent. You can really talk about an ecoboom in Sweden. Unfortunately, however, we do not see the same increase on the production side. However, the Danish eco-farmers are increasingly focusing on the Swedish market. There is no harm in that, but it is clear that there are now great opportunities to increase Swedish organic production.
i-8801aeda13ef4503-299	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. It is quite right that we have a huge increase in demand for organic food in our country. It is not something that is happening only in Sweden, but it is also international pressure on these issues, not least if you move west to the USA, where you talk about hysteria around this. Modern man connects more and more food with health. Food is health. It is important that primary production and the food industry can hook their arm with what consumers are asking for. Today we have large imports of organic products. We have contributed 200 million to the rural development programme to stimulate more organic production. I will return to my next speech.
i-8801aeda13ef4503-304	Mr President, I would like to Of course, I think it is great that the government strengthened support for organic farming in the rural programme by 200 million compared to the programme developed by the bourgeois government. It was very good and necessary. However, given the ecoboom that we are now seeing in Sweden, we are beginning to worry that this money will run out by 2020. I believe that this support for eco-producers is very important. It is important both for those who are thinking of changing, because it involves a cost to reset, and for those who are eco-producers today so that they can produce more. I would therefore like to ask the Minister the following: is it possible, in the current programming period, i.e. before 2020, to allocate more money under the rural development programme to organic production in Sweden?
i-8801aeda13ef4503-307	Mr President, I would like to It's absolutely possible. With regard to the programme established and approved by the Commission, it is possible to make two to three major changes during the programming period. It is also possible to make minor changes during the programming period. We are now making a minor change that is just starting to take stock of what Stina Bergström is asking about. The point is that when a farmer changes to be approved for organic farming, there are different time limits for changing land and certain animals. These links, if we continue in this way, mean that the organic farmer will lose year two in the conversion period. This is a minor adjustment being made now. However, I am convinced that, in the future, we need to review this, because it is not good for us to import this type of product when we have all the conditions in this country to increase this production in view of our climate.
i-8801aeda13ef4503-310	Mr President, I would like to Sweden's dairy farmers still have a very difficult and vulnerable situation. Each week, five dairy businesses end up in business. The consequences of this will be enormous. The government has put forward various proposals, such as a reduction in the tax on diesel by 29 cents per litre. It gives the dairy farmer 1 øre per litre of milk in improved profitability. Furthermore, the government has spoken of a credit guarantee to which banks say no.
i-8801aeda13ef4503-313	Mr President, I would like to It is a difficult situation for farmers today, and above all for dairy farmers. It is true, as Magnus Oscarsson says, that five ends every week. According to the forecast, 260 will end in 2015. There's too many of them. Nevertheless, I would like to inform you that during the eight years of the alliance government, an average of 300 farmers ended each year. So there is reason to slow this down. In fact, the Alliance government raised the diesel tax on two occasions. That was much more than the diesel tax increase that is now being made. At the same time, the alliance government lowered the diesel tax reduction from 2:38 to 90 cents. This government takes this seriously and increases the diesel tax reduction to farmers from 90 cents to 1:70. We will shortly be providing information on credit guarantees and co-financing. However, we have said that we will co-finance the 76 million.
i-8801aeda13ef4503-317	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply. Just a few weeks ago in Stockholm there were lots of dairy farmers from all over the country. We and the Minister also listened to their demands and appeals: do something now that can make a difference! During many of my visits around Sweden, to dairy entrepreneurs in Ödeshög and milk entrepreneurs in Vindeln, the message has been the same: you politicians must facilitate the extra costs that you politicians have set. These additional costs are only available here in Sweden. Let us compete on the same terms as farmers in the rest of the EU. My question to the Minister is: Will Sweden's dairy farmers be allowed to compete on the same terms as European farmers?
i-8801aeda13ef4503-321	Mr President, I would like to The production of Swedish farmers, both dairy farmers and meat farmers, is of a very high standard. I can say that we in Sweden are world champions of environmental thinking in agriculture. We're world champions of animal welfare. We are also the best in the EU in terms of antibiotic use. We use very little antibiotics. We have very high quality products. We'll keep on having that. We should not compete in a low-cost market, but should compete with high-quality products. Food is health, and more and more people are discovering it. What else do we do? We're spending 300 million on the diesel tax reduction. We are investing in exports to bring these products to new markets. We have added a food Attaché in Beijing. We have also invested 300 million in the rural development programme in innovation and development. We come up with plenty of action.
i-8801aeda13ef4503-323	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for the Minister for Finance. One might wonder if the Minister of Finance has noticed that there is a housing shortage in the whole kingdom but especially in cities such as Gothenburg and Stockholm. When it comes to student apartments, it may take several years for a student to get an apartment. Now that Akademiska Hus has a new mission to be able to invest, manage and produce new student apartments, they choose to do so to some extent. But on 19 October this year there will be an extraordinary general meeting in Akademiska Hus. Then the state will receive a dividend of 6.5 billion. Some 8 000 new student housing could have been built for this money. These 6.5 billion will go into the Treasury. Then my question to the Minister for Finance is: how is it that in the current lack of student apartments they have not chosen to build student apartments for this money? Since it has not been done, I wonder what the money will be used for. Will they be used for increased subsidies?
i-8801aeda13ef4503-326	Mr President, I would like to After eight years of alliance government, there is a huge housing shortage in large parts of the country. It is clear that the construction of housing was very neglected during the time of the alliance government, under the leadership of Erik Andersson's party. It's unfortunate. Therefore, the government is now turning the housing policy around and comes with the biggest housing policy effort in 20 years and with special support precisely for building small rental apartments that young people and students, but of course also others, should be able to live in. I think it is a very good proposal, and I hope that we can get support from Erik Andersson for this proposal. However, Akademiska Hus is overcapitalized. This money goes into the state this year and improves public financial savings and is used to pay off on public debt this year, but it will not be able to be used in the future.
i-8801aeda13ef4503-329	Mr President, I would like to I had almost felt that the Minister of Finance would complain about the previous government. It's not uncommon for that to happen. But now it is not we who are in government, but you, Magdalena Andersson, who are doing so. That's why you're the one to answer. The Minister of Finance says Akademiska Hus is overcapitalized. But the thing is, in order to distribute this money, they have taken out a loan in order for the state to receive 6.5 billion. Does the Minister of Finance think that it is a responsible economic policy that they should take out loans in order to give this money to the state, money that can go to the daily expenses? I haven't been told what the money's for. We believe that they would have been used to increase the construction of student apartments. The Minister of Finance is talking about smaller apartments. The advantage of a student apartment is that a student can really live in one. In the case of other smaller apartments, which the Minister of Finance referred to, one must usually have a job in order to have access to a contract for such an apartment.
i-8801aeda13ef4503-333	Mr President, I would like to In fact, we have the same principles as the previous government when it comes to how we view state companies. There are requirements for capitalisation and capitalisation of the companies. If they have a higher degree of capitalisation, they will sooner or later make a dividend to the State. That is how the previous government worked, and so does this government. Since then, the housing shortage has not arisen in the year that we have been in government power, but it is actually a housing shortage that has been built up not least during the eight years that Erik Andersson's party sat in the government when housing construction was far too small. Therefore, it is so good that the government is now making the biggest housing policy effort in 20 years to be able to build apartments and of course also student apartments.
i-8801aeda13ef4503-337	Mr President, I would like to The other day the conference Sweden was organized together, where the Prime Minister hosted. The purpose of the day was to highlight new arrivals' path to establishment in Sweden from different perspectives. One of the conference's speakers was Ingrid Lomfors, Director of the Living History Forum. Lomfors argued that the idea that there would be a unified domestic culture dating back to ancient times is not based on facts. The statement met with severe criticism, and despite a poodle afterwards, the question arises as to how the Minister for Culture sees this view being expressed. On the one hand, it conflicts with the Minister's own previous statements, and on the other it creates intolerance and makes it difficult to understand what people need to be integrated into when they come to Sweden.
i-8801aeda13ef4503-339	Mr President, I would like to I thank the honourable Member for the question. It is extremely important that we in Sweden have a broad and great understanding of our culture and cultural heritage, the great anchoring of people's movement and that we do not set up frameworks. It is a legacy that is constantly evolving. I naturally expect us to have this understanding here in the Chamber of the Swedish Parliament when we develop Swedish cultural policy, and I also expect it from Heads of Government and the people who drive the issues forward. I am not at all familiar with this case and did not hear the statement, but it is an expectation I have.
i-8801aeda13ef4503-341	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for Culture for his answer, and I note that we both understand that there is a Swedish culture and that it naturally develops. At the same time, several questions remain. It is, of course, serious that an authority responsible for promoting tolerance and bridge building expresses intolerance towards Sweden's country and peoples, conceals obvious thresholds and detracts from those born abroad who have managed to embrace Swedish culture. How will the Minister ensure that this type of statement, which destroys rather than helps integration and which creates discord and clashes with other activities – activities that have the task of promoting, protecting and demonstrating Swedish culture, domestic and foreign – can be prevented in the future?
i-8801aeda13ef4503-343	Mr President, I would like to I have no reason to doubt any of the Heads of State I have a responsibility for or how those authorities are conducted. The Living History Forum is a fantastic authority with a large and important mission, and it is obvious to me that those who lead the agency have an understanding of what their mission is. We have government dialogues in which we follow up the responsibilities and work of the Heads of State and Government, and they will follow their natural course. At present, I have no reason to doubt anything or anyone.
i-8801aeda13ef4503-345	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Home Affairs Anders Ygeman. In the wake of the refugees coming to our country, we have seen that it represents a hard effort for our authorities. I know that the authorities need support – I am thinking mainly of the Migration Agency and MSB, but can also be done at county boards and municipalities – and I also know that the current approach is to the defence and MSB NGOs, who have training to cope with some of the tasks that need to be done. That is very good, and I would like to remind you of the war in Lebanon in 2006. The Ministry for Foreign Affairs then needed help in manning phones and also in receiving people at Arlanda. There were Swedes there, and we got a quick response so that they could come back to Sweden. We could do the same in this with our NGOs, and I know that the members who are there want to help. The Minister could look at how people could get off their regular jobs more quickly?
i-8801aeda13ef4503-348	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is facing its greatest humanitarian effort since the Second World War. Around our country we welcome people who have fled from war and oppression. They have fled from Asad's oil cask bombings, from the vile executions of Isil and from the oppression that is taking place there. We, of course, on the part of the government, will take every possible measure for those people who wish to participate voluntarily in the reception. I am deeply impressed by all the voluntary efforts that have been made so far. We are now doing weekly reconciliations within the framework of the Swedish Agency for Civil Protection and Preparedness in terms of what the volunteer situation looks like, what the state of government looks like and what cooperation should look like. The Swedish Civil Contingencies Agency has also been commissioned by the Government to coordinate work between NGOs, authorities, state and municipalities.
i-8801aeda13ef4503-350	Mr President, I would like to It feels good to hear that the minister is so familiar with the problem. I know that, for example, the Migration Agency and MSB are asking for people from NGOs who can come and help. Perhaps I am thinking primarily of the Swedish Armed Forces, the Red Cross, the League of Civil Defense and the Swedish Lotta Corps. They have special training courses that could be needed. You get a question, and within 24 hours you should then be in place in the municipality or in the authority asking for help. So it goes very quickly, and you have a regular job that you may not be able to let go. There is then no possibility of standing up, since the employer probably believes that you need to be in your place of work. If it were a rescue operation, the rescue leader could point and say, "I want you in place here and now." However, that is not possible at this stage, and yet I think that we would need some form of legal support for the group of people who are willing to stand up and also have the education.
i-8801aeda13ef4503-352	Mr President, I would like to Within the framework of the work carried out in the Government Office and within the Swedish Agency for Civil Protection and Preparedness, we will have to review whether there is any reason to change laws. Right now, we're not in that position. People are also needed at work, and we should be happy that so many people in Sweden have a job. Today we received the unemployment statistics, which show that youth unemployment has fallen. It is gratifying, and it shows that the government's policy is starting to produce results in reality. As far as NGOs are concerned, I will also add that the Red Cross has been given an extra SEK 10 million just to pass on to other organisations involved in volunteering related to the reception of refugees.
i-8801aeda13ef4503-355	Mr President, I would like to Despite the fact that we have an EU-wide and extremely strict process for testing and authorising GMOs, the European Commission has put forward a proposal to enable Member States to prevent or even prohibit the trade in and use of genetically modified food and feed on their territory. Whatever one's view of GMOs, Mr President, this is a proposal that every friend of the EU's internal market has to say no to. Opening up to individual countries on uncertain grounds to prevent trade in goods that have already been authorised at EU level is a threat to the EU's internal market. Although the proposal has already been discussed here in Parliament and at ministerial level in the EU, the Government has not taken a position on the proposal. Therefore, Mr President, I would like to ask the Minister for Rural Affairs, Mr Bucht, why the government does not put its foot down and say no to this proposal, which is clearly contrary to the principle of the European internal market.
i-8801aeda13ef4503-358	Mr President, I would like to The issue is under consideration at European level, and I was told that the Agriculture Committee in Parliament had a vote on it the day before yesterday. The proposal was voted against. However, there is a problem in this, and it is precisely that it sets up obstacles to the movement of goods across borders. On the EU side, looking at the legal aspects – is this really feasible, and are there conflicts with the WTO rules we have approved? The issue is therefore not sufficiently highlighted for Sweden to be able to take a position on it yet.
i-8801aeda13ef4503-360	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply, but I think it is deeply unfortunate and strange that the government cannot take a position on this proposal right now. It is quite clear that the proposal is contrary to the principles of the EU's internal market. The single market with the free movement of goods, services, persons and capital is the cornerstone of EU cooperation. It is therefore remarkable and startling that the government should remain passive rather than react sharply to the proposal put forward by the Commission. I note, like the Minister, that the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection in the European Parliament voted the day before yesterday to call on the Commission to reject the proposal. And I note that the Minister's party colleague, Jytte Guteland, among others, is in favour of this very thing. My question is this: does the Minister think that Jytte Guteland and the rest of the Committee on the Environment are wrong when they think that the Commission's proposal should be rejected and that it jeopardises the EU's principles for the internal market?
i-8801aeda13ef4503-364	Mr President, I would like to This issue has been before the Council of Ministers on one occasion. There we have said that we want to wait for what the EU's Legal Secretariat says, if the proposal is contrary to the EU's principles of the internal market and WTO rules. The issue will certainly come up again at a Council of Ministers. We are also following the way in which this matter is dealt with in Parliament. It will be taken up in Parliament sometime this autumn.
i-8801aeda13ef4503-366	Mr President, I would like to My question to Rural Minister Bucht is about education and skills in the green industries. A few days ago, in the debate on TV's Agenda, we heard the Prime Minister talk about the many simple jobs that would exist in the green industries, in agriculture and forestry. For me it is a very doubtful description of reality. The demands for training in technology, economics and biology are constantly increasing in the industry. Increasing demands are being placed on the skills of those who work there. Research, education and innovation are important issues for the future, not least in an industry such as green industries. I simply wonder whether the Minister for Rural Development agrees that there are many simple jobs in the particular green industries and how he sees the need for training and skills in the industry for the future.
i-8801aeda13ef4503-369	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. Education and competence are crucial in all industries for us to succeed, that we have well-trained people, good skills and also research. But it doesn't say that every job requires it. There are, of course, also simpler jobs in these sectors. Not least in the industry that the Prime Minister talked about, the forest, one can with easier education do many jobs, like clearing jobs, under management. Under the Swedish government Persson, major efforts were made for green jobs in Swedish forests, such as nature conservation, but also grubbing-up assignments. It was people who received an undergraduate education and who were able to do a very good job for Swedish forestry and nature conservation. There are both in this sector.
i-8801aeda13ef4503-372	Mr President, I would like to I am well aware of grubbing-up work both in management streets and in forestry and know that there too is a lot of know-how and competence. The fact that I ask the question depends on the signals that are easily sent that it is still in agriculture and forestry that the simple jobs exist. In fact, I meet many active entrepreneurs in the industries today who are experiencing major difficulties in recruiting and, above all, recruiting staff with skills and know-how. That is why I think this is an important issue to highlight. I would like to hear a little more about how the Minister sees the possibility of further developing the skills and know-how of those looking for a job and getting enough people to apply for jobs in the industry, because that may be needed if we are to get the good development that we surely all want in the green industries.
i-8801aeda13ef4503-375	Mr President, I would like to That is absolutely correct. In agriculture, I find it very difficult to find properly trained staff. There's a shortage of keepers and a shortage of engineers. I also encounter a lack of mechanics in forestry. Everyone in these industries is just saying that the problem is that the agricultural upper secondary schools do not get enough students. The number of students fell drastically when the previous government removed the requirement to move on to higher education. This government intends to change. We need to get more people to go to basic education in the agricultural upper secondary schools and then more of them to go on in education. I've been following very closely the nature conservation high school closest to me, in Kalix. 97% of all those who go there go straight to work.
i-8801aeda13ef4503-379	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister of Interior Anders Ygeman. Over time, the professional role of the police has become increasingly complex, and the demands on the police are increasing. A variety of skills are needed to cope with police work today. One of the reasons is the increase in cybercrime that is taking place. In its current form, the basic training for a police officer is about five semesters, four in studies and one in the VFU, so-called operational training.
i-8801aeda13ef4503-383	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. The issue itself captures the basis for police training to become a higher education course, as it is in all our neighbouring countries, namely by changing society and making crime more and more of IT components. This means that police training must also be changed so that the police officers who finish their training in a few years' time do so with the skills needed to cope with the crime they will face. It also provides an opportunity for police education to take advantage of the entire academic world and hopefully also get in place police research in Sweden, so that the work within the police can more benefit from all the knowledge that exists in the police organization, turn it into research and work results and in that way solve more crimes.
i-8801aeda13ef4503-384	Mr President, I would like to Technology has not only made the police profession more complex, but also led to an increased demand for police research – police research that is relevant to the police work itself. It goes very hand in hand with the business. In English it is called Crime's Science, to seek ways to prevent crime and not just investigate crime. It is a research conducted at Uppsala University, among others. How does the Minister of the Interior see that the conversion to higher education can affect police research itself?
i-8801aeda13ef4503-386	Mr President, I would like to First only a statement, even though that word has now become a little burdened: We have no research in Sweden with police work as a major subject, which they have in several other countries. Police research conducted in Sweden is conducted in other major subjects. It can be criminology, sociology, psychology and even business administration. The idea of converting police training into a higher education course and getting police research in place is to be able to research based on the police's professional role and take advantage of all the knowledge of the individual police officers and increase the professional skills and pride in the police profession. I hope that with the new police training on the ground we will also receive a police research with police work as a major subject, as in some of our neighbouring countries, and thus in the long term strengthen Swedish police.
i-8801aeda13ef4503-388	Mr President, I would like to My question is addressed to the Minister for Culture and Democracy. Early in this term of office, the Minister decided to hire the organisation Justice Mediation as a recruitment agency for the appointment of company and government boards and more. This has been debated by the Minister and I in the past. Then we did it from a more theoretical point of view on diversity, breadth and competence, because the decision was then very fresh. I would now like to raise the issue from a more concrete perspective. The Justice Service has now come up with its list of candidates, and through the media we have been able to access it. My question to the Minister for Democracy is whether she still stands firm, now with the facts in her hand, that the order from the Justice Service provides more diversity, breadth and depth in recruitment to important government posts.
i-8801aeda13ef4503-391	Mr President, I would like to Merit and skill should be the guiding principle when recruiting to the state, and this remains the guiding principle. But competition has not been large enough. When we've been looking for the best for all the posts we're going to set up, we've been looking in a too tight circle. It's the same name that comes up over and over again. After I took part of this and saw it black and white, my ambition was to broaden it. In Sweden, around our businesses and in society at large, there are a lot of skills that never come up. Then how do we get them? Well, we turn to a number of actors who work to develop skills and people with more experience and more perspectives. Justice mediation is one of those actors. When we make the assessment of who is the right person for a task, we need to have as broad a basis as possible. It was a very successful collaboration.
i-8801aeda13ef4503-394	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its answer. In my opinion, the definition of the concept of "diversity" in the field of justice can be seen as very narrow. Diversity, according to them, deals only with such things as skin color, origin, ethnicity and gender. But is justice really to judge people by this type of inborn qualities? It's enough to take a look at their lists. For example, the vast majority who are recommended have a strong political list. It's very one-sided. Is this controversial for a lobby organisation? No, not at all. But for a recruitment agency, that is quite obvious. My question remains. Does the Minister think that Justice Mediation is an unpolitical association that does not market political opinions or work for an agenda other than diversity? Most businesses are better off because there are people with different perspectives. We are in complete agreement on this.
i-8801aeda13ef4503-398	Mr President, I would like to When the government appoints a post, it is extremely important that we get the absolute best in that post. To find the absolute best, the government can use various tools, such as recruitment agencies. We'll keep doing that. But I saw that I needed more – more perspectives, more voices and other experiences. At that time, one of the actors I hired was the Justice Service. The lists they have drawn up are helpful. If you read them, you can see that there are enormous skills. But that doesn't mean I'm just looking at their lists. There were only about 300 names. I need a lot more. I need thousands of names. I will appoint 400 posts during my term of office, so I really need a broad basis to find the best. I'm gonna turn every stone around. There will be no cream files left, but there will be a hundred percent competition here.
i-8801aeda13ef4503-400	That concludes today's Question Time. I thank the ministers and the participating Members.
