i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1	Mr President, I would like to Sometimes you think a little about what to say in debates like this. I thought a little extra about the breakfast meeting that some of us have been to where Malin Sundin, who has written the book Spilled Milk, told in an incredibly touching way. I received the book yesterday and began to read, and I fully understand that it will be a difficult reading. What was a little extra interesting was that I found a few words by Erik Axel Karlfeldt in the book. Erik Axel comes from the municipality in which I live. As you know, he is a Nobel Prize winner. At the age of 21, 1918, he wrote this: But he who stops the speed of the plant and puts the soil back on the ground commits a sin of a grosser nature than he who kills men Those are very thoughtful words. This is perhaps what we are doing to some extent; arable land that many have worked incredibly hard to keep open is becoming a forest. I think there is every reason in the world to do everything in our power to reverse this development. It was appropriate to have this very breakfast meeting before this debate, and I would like to thank Staffan Danielsson, who made sure that the meeting took place. The report concerns agricultural, rural and food sectors. It is a budget report. I will first make it clear that we, on the moderate side, support paragraphs 1, 3, 4 and 5 of the report. We are not taking part in the decision in relation to paragraph 2, where we have a specific opinion. Our draft budget has fallen, which is why we will not be taking part in the decision. So what do we have to do? If you first look at agriculture, we must realise that agriculture is a business. There is then the EU's entry into a global market, and we must ensure that we have competitive rules for this type of entrepreneurship, just like for any other entrepreneurship. Politics like to call it added value – different decisions that are nothing but costs for Swedish agricultural production. Malin calls it special costs. I think we need to realise this, because we know that the consumer often looks at the price tag and does not always want to pay for the special costs. If we tighten it, we will continue to move food production beyond our borders. We certainly should not do that when we have such a climate-smart and good agriculture. We have seen to it that the problems are increasing, not just through rules. The Rovvilts problem has been created for many animal owners, and it creates high costs. Last week we had a debate on this particular part. I believe that this too is something that needs to be considered and resolved. Already the sheep owners outside Gnesta would have to invest in fences for SEK 2 million. If we do that equation around all the owners of animals, it will be incredible sums that are imposed on a Swedish agriculture that already has competition problems today. If we do the right thing and realize that we are in a global market, we must think again. In the report, among others, we Moderates have shown that the refund of diesel tax on agriculture and forestry is important. We are spending more than half a billion on this over a three-year period. Comparatively, this is hard hit because many competitor countries have significantly lower costs. It does not get any better if the government increases diesel and petrol taxes. It compensates and recognises that this is harmful to agriculture, but it does not compensate for the milk car, all feed transport and other things. It's the truckers who handle it, so there's going to be an increase in costs. We have pointed out the grazing requirement, where we Moderates believe that there must be a change. Hopefully, there will be an increased freedom, and perhaps we can link grazing requirements to environmental support. We Moderates think it's important that we have grazing mules out there to have open fields and pastures, especially. Many take this for granted, but the animals are there for a reason. There is a viable agriculture, and there must in the long term be profitable agriculture. Mr President, I would like to I will conclude by saying that I believe that the forest is important for rural residents. It is important that we see the forest as a production forest. We can increase the production of forests and at the same time secure the demands to think about the environment. The forest is something that creates many jobs, and it is a major contributor to a better climate. It is about the green atoms, and it is much better that we use the carbon atoms that are already above the surface of the earth than to try to bring them down cost-wise.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-12	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Ulf Berg – it was exemplary shortly and within the speaking time! I'm not sure I can do it as exemplary later today. I would like to refer to Ulf Berg's speech and the Moderates' proposal on the reductions in diesel taxation and the links with the situation of dairy farmers. When did the Moderates first pay attention to the situation of the dairy farmers? And didn't the Moderates in government raise the diesel tax twice? Did you not also reduce the right to deduct farmers as many times?
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-14	Mr President, I would like to I'm not gonna defend this. I think it was unfortunate that, mainly for environmental reasons, the refund of diesel tax was reduced. It is a bit difficult to replace the tractor, and here you have to have a process so that we get other fuels. In fact, in big cities, it is often possible to avoid using the car. You can think about that when you take your morning walks in Stockholm with all the cars that are here. It is in the cities there are alternatives and you have to think about what you can do. There are good reasons for continuing to work on various biofuels, and I think that we need to have a common fight against Brussels where, for some strange reason, we do not think that biofuels should be promoted. It is, of course, substantial steps in the right direction in terms of climate that it can provide, and, as I said in my speech, it is better if oil and coal are allowed to stay in the ground instead of we, with expensive processes, trying to bring down the coal that has come up. So there is much to do here. I'll be very clear. I think this was wrong with the Alliance. I have been involved in making that decision, and I am trying to do everything possible to ensure that we now understand that agriculture since EU entry is, on the one hand, a business and, on the other hand, a competitive market. Then we must always decide that if this is a special cost for Swedish agriculture that does not have competitors, we must also consider how it can be compensated.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-17	Mr President, I would like to I hope that it is the policy of the whole Alliance that we are actually serious about the green exchange of taxes. On Monday, when we debated Category 20 in the budget, virtually all bourgeois parties highlighted the need for a green tax shift and investment in renewable fuels. We need a broad political settlement here in the Swedish Parliament so that the important initiatives that industry is waiting for can become a reality. The industry wants to get started, and it is not only Preem who wants to produce renewable fuels, but everyone wants to take part in the new fuel. There is a little bit about being first and able to invest, but then politics must also be clear so that you know that there will be no changes in a change of government. I am grateful if Ulf Berg stands for the fact that it is the entire Moderates and the entire Alliance that is serious about this important issue.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-19	Mr President, I would like to As long as Johan Hultberg holds on these issues, Isak From need not be in the least worried. I have a number of times begun to wonder whether the fuel industry itself should take the lead in ensuring that we get this climate change. I understand that in some cases it is up to 50% HVO in diesel, and it does not come from fossil fuel. A lot is happening, you want to increase your additives and you do it for various reasons. In some cases, you go first. Not everyone likes this nasty market, but I believe it. Several financial institutions are starting to move money away from companies that are engaged in coal-based activities in different ways. I believe that when capital invests in new and much better and climate-smarter activities, this transformation can go much faster than we think and that we politicians can help it. At the same time, we must ensure, once again, that biofuels and the like can benefit. Then I think you have to be honest and say that, regardless of the government, it is good from a fiscal point of view to put a little tax on fuel, because the money must in one way or another enter the treasury. Now it is so bad, I understand, that the Minister of Finance even abandons the crown for the crown. The tax burden will not decrease, at least not under the red-green government.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-23	Mr President, I would like to I heard Ulf Berg talking about the huge costs for farmers who need to protect their tambodity. For example, it may be a question of fenced sheep's pastures and so on. That's absolutely true, because it's a huge cost. That is precisely why we are increasing that allocation by about 25% in this budget. It is envelope 1:7 on compensation for wild game injuries that should be precisely for these preventive measures, such as imprisonment and compensation. That's a good bet, isn't it, Ulf Berg? It has been quite a long time since this appropriation was raised, but now we are actually doing so. I would also like to ask Ulf Berg another question, because he talked about forests and the important role that forests can play in both the production of timber and biomass and for biodiversity. There we are also making important efforts with this budget. 1:2 is the allocation which involves efforts for forestry and which we are raising significantly. It rejects the Moderates with SEK 100 million. The idea with this increase in funding is that we will get more money for biotop protection and conservation agreements so that you can protect more forest. Why do the Moderates reject the important venture?
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-27	Mr President, I would like to Increases in compensation for game damage of 20 million sound like a lot of money. But if we look at my example of the sheep owners outside Gnesta, we can see that a tenth of the money in the increased grant would go to just fence that property. Then will surely realize both Jens Holm and others that that money is not enough if the County Administrative Board in Stockholm's injunctions would be a standard for the rest of the county administrative boards, i.e. you would send out injunctions and demand closure. Otherwise you will be able to have trouble with the Swedish Government. I firmly believe that the legislation needs to be clarified here so that it is enough to keep its animals inside the fence, and then the state has to be responsible for the animals it has. As far as forests are concerned, we on the moderate side are convinced that it is possible to have both high environmental standards and production. After all, it is not two communicating vessels, that is to say, you increase production you reduce on the environmental side, but you can actually improve and do the right things. We set aside a lot of land. I learned a couple of weeks ago that we set aside a lot of land in Norrland, but that when it comes to disposed of forest in relation to red-listed species, it is in southern Sweden that we should do it and not in the north. We are convinced that you can begin to manage these reserved reserves and the like before you set aside even more. So that is our reason. We believe that this can be done in completely different and cheaper ways.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-32	Mr President, I would like to But it is certainly a good thing, Ulf Berg, that we increase the funding for the prevention measures, for compensation for game damage and for example for the fence in? It won't be much cheaper if we don't make this extra investment of about 25% in this appropriation. I hope that we can at least agree that the increase that we are doing now and that you did not do in your previous budget is a good thing. I can agree with Ulf Berg that there needs to be much more land and forest in southern Sweden, really. That is why we debated the appropriations for nature conservation in the second category of expenditure, category 20, yesterday. We make the biggest investment in at least 20 years in nature conservation in Sweden. We make huge investments in maintenance and care, which Ulf Berg mentioned is a great need for. But those bets dismiss the Moderates. We are also making huge efforts to create more nature reserves and more national parks. And we would like to do so in the middle and above all in the south of Sweden where there is a great need for it. But that too rejects the Moderates. Why does Ulf Berg say one thing here, which sounds pretty good, when the Moderates put forward in practice a draft budget that draws in a completely different direction? This also applies to the allocation 1:2 for forestry operations. It's about biotop protection and nature conservation agreements. It is a form of voluntary cooperation with forest owners in order to protect more forest. We'll spend more money on it. You reject it, Ulf Berg. You want to cut down by 100 million kroner. Ulf Berg, how can we get better conservation, better protection with less money, as you propose?
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-38	Mr President, I would like to Jens Holm forgets that government policy risks leading to large parts of Sweden becoming a pasture wall. Jens Holm forgets that a large part of the funding comes from 4 billion in increased petrol and diesel taxes. In particular, those living in rural areas and entrepreneurs living in the hinterland of Norrland, who have to transport their goods down to markets, will have to pay. We Moderates believe in funding heads for heads. It is easy for you, Jens Holm, to show all the increases and bets you make, but it is also easy to forget to show where you take the money from. I would like to remind you very much of the EUR 4 billion that is expected to be collected as a result of the increase in taxes on petrol and diesel. As I said, it will hit the countryside hard. Urbanisation is often due not only to people moving to Stockholm. They also move into urban areas and the like because it is too expensive to drive the children to not only school but also hockey practices, football practices and all that it is. So that's no wonder. However, I believe that much can be done to reverse the trend and not just reverse the trend. According to the Swedish Board of Agriculture's statistics, 3 million people live in rural areas, i.e. outside cities and large cities. There are many who are affected. And a rural area near a big city may not have as great a problem as those far from the city. So there is much to do. All you have to do is make sure it gets better soil. Because there are very creative and energetic people living in rural areas. They can do this on their own.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-43	Mr President, I would like to Today, as I said, we are debating Category 23 on agriculture, rural areas and food. First of all, I would like to support the Swedish Democrats' reservation No 1, the payment of direct payments. As far as the budget allocation is concerned, of course, we are behind our own budget exercise, but since we have a significantly higher budget allocation than both the government and the rest of the Alliance, we can only present a specific opinion under Category 23. Mr President, I would like to Even if I knew the earth would end tomorrow, I would still plant an apple tree today. That's what Martin Luther said a certain number of centuries ago. It is about agriculture being long-term. Decisions are made even if the results are not to be seen. Just like when we plant apple trees at home in our gardens or when the farmer sows his field and so on, we don't know what the result will be. But we have a hope. The Swedish Democrats are the whole of Sweden's party. North and south, rural and city – the whole country is important to us. Many can or do not want to live and work in our major cities. And a very large part of Sweden's area consists of rural areas. It is a fantastic landscape filled with deep forests, rushing streams, lush pastures, rolling fields, high mountains and deep valleys. That these parts of Sweden continue to live stands and falls with those who live and work there. Areella industries, rural areas and food are part of the core of our Swedish-friendly policy. As regards agriculture and food production in general, the Swedish Democrats have the declared ambition that Swedish food production should survive and develop. In our view, something else would be highly unreasonable. As value-creating activities, agriculture generates jobs not primarily in the industry but also for transport companies, subcontractors and not least in the Swedish food industry. We in the Swedish Democrats believe that it is a fundamentally sound idea that we preserve the knowledge and tradition of producing our own food. It is not just an economic issue. It is also about our environment, our animal welfare, our cultural heritage and our cultural geography. Mr President, I would like to In Sweden we have a relatively well-functioning system, where large areas of forest are voluntarily set aside for protection. In Sweden, we want to protect and develop this system in harmony with the interests of forest owners. We shall preserve the cultural values of the forest, and certain areas shall be protected from felling for various reasons. But the starting point should in principle always be that the value of the forest should be taken into account. This approach is important, not least for rural areas where both tourism and the forest industry generate jobs. We in the Swedish Democrats basically agree with the need to protect protected biotopes and to protect significant areas from felling. At the same time, we look with great concern at the Government's ambitions to exempt huge areas of productive forest land, up to 11⁄2 million hectares at a cost of perhaps 100 billion. Forests are a national matter. But we should also remember that Swedish forestry is world-class from an environmental perspective. Mr President, I would like to A viable agriculture is a prerequisite for a diverse cultural landscape and much of our biodiversity. Open and vibrant landscapes cannot be legislated. They only exist if it is profitable to carry out forestry, agriculture and to keep animals. Nor can Swedish milk production be said to be a special interest. We've had a milk crisis. It's still going on. For each dairy farm that closes down its activities, five to six jobs may be lost. Swedish dairy farmers have been under pressure for a long time. The price of milk was already low when, as a result of Russia's suspension of imports in summer 2014, it fell to catastrophicly low levels for producers. The price of agricultural products is natural in itself, but the factors are much greater in this case. Swedish farmers compete in an international market. However, they compete with their national specific costs and with their national specific rules. We in the Swedish Democrats have raised the issue. We are pleased that more parties in the Riksdag have done so. There must now, above all, be concrete political proposals. That is something we put forward in our budget motion. Among other things, we put forward proposals for a grazing allowance. We want to introduce a grazing premium of SEK 1 000 per dairy cow per year. For the individual trader, this would be an economic relief, and it is an important measure for valuing our Swedish milk production. The bait gives the cows better health and the possibility of natural behavior. Pesting animals also contribute to the maintenance of other values, such as open landscapes and biodiversity. It is in harmony with our ambitions regarding animal welfare that cows should graze outdoors during the summer. But we cannot turn a blind eye to the fact that it is a competitive disadvantage for the farmers, with the labour and costs involved. That's why we choose to bet that money. Mr President, I would like to Tax on fuel is an important source of revenue for the state. But through so-called'return of CO2 tax' we have, net, a lower tax on agriculture and forestry. The government proposed in its budget to increase the reimbursement of the CO2 tax to 1.70. At the same time, they chose to increase the tax. But it is still pleasing. We want to sink further. Our ambition is to reduce the tax to the Danish level. That is why in our budget we propose a reduction of 2.06 SEK and an additional 0.69 SEK the following year in order to reach the level that prevails in Denmark. Swedish farmers compete in the same market as Danish farmers. We therefore believe that it is very reasonable for the level of taxation to be the same. This is a relatively cheap reform, but definitely a relief for individual farmers. In the end, we will also benefit from more farms becoming economically viable and able to survive in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to Finally, let me quote from the book Spilled milk written by Malin Sundin and an anonymous farmer. I, like Ulf Berg, had the honour of attending the lecture this morning. The book raises many questions that deeply affect me. In the end, it says: The farmer creates the countryside, in collaboration with the mule and hoof. Without farmers no farmland. Without farmers no nature and cultural district. Without farmers no countryside. It's all connected. Without farmers no Sweden. Merry Christmas!
i-P2aQs6gUjJ6McUNi1KxQ8A	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Anders Forsberg, for your speech! When you hear Anders Forsberg in the speaker's chair and when you read in the report you can easily think that the Swedish Democrats have a very high ambition for rural areas and the real industries. But when you know the conditions, it doesn't get credible. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats have actually voted for the Moderate framework here in the Swedish Parliament. This means that the Swedish Democrats do not have this money and funding. In fact, the Swedish Democrats' proposal lacks 1.8 billion. Where will Anders Forsberg get that money? In order to gain any credibility for its policies, it must be connected. Then you cannot say that you should invest in the important parts and then you do not have that money. Next time, you vote for something completely different. Now the Swedish Democrats have supported the framework distribution of Moderates.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-63	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question. We are trying to finance our budget. In Category 23, we are spending 1.5 billion and we are taking this from the EUR 1.7 billion of the environment in particular. We are voting primarily on our own budget. Otherwise, however, we have promised our constituents to vote for the budget that is least harmful to Sweden. In this case, the Moderates had very few, but still less, expenditure items for migration. That is quite interesting given that Isak From represents the budget in this case. It has been forced to make an additional amendment and then to table another amending budget. I believe that we will see a number of amending budgets in the coming years before the costs of migration have been controlled. But, like I said, I don't have a problem with this. Most people probably also understand what the issue is.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-67	Mr President, I would like to Anders Forsberg says that the Swedish Democrats have no problem voting on one thing one day and voting in the opposite direction on the other day. It's not credible. The Swedish democrats clearly show that they are in favour of the policy that has been pursued over eight years, where tax cuts were the only available tool to overcome one and the other. Anders Forsberg also brings migration in. It is one of the major factors for the future in order to have a living countryside and for there to be people who live there and use the fields, who take the jobs that are now lacking in the forest industry. You advertise for staff, but you can't find any skilled people. Where are the educational efforts that disappear because the Swedish Democrats support the Moderates' budget. Is that money going to disappear in an empty hole?
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-70	Mr President, I would like to If you are in a position of government and cannot present a budget that holds together, I think you have more problems with credibility than with our credibility if we choose to vote in favour of a budget that we hoped the rest of the Alliance would vote in favour of the budget that was better for Sweden. We are the third block of politics. We are free from different parts, and we also choose freely how to vote on decisions. Whether or not migration is the solution to possible problems in rural areas, I believe, above all, that the solution in the future is a good competitive environment, so that rural areas can be lifted with the conditions in place. It is about forests, soil and other production sectors. I believe that rural areas have enormous opportunities.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-73	Mr President, I would like to I've got a little idea. The food industry is a very important industry in Sweden. If you look at figures for the industry from 2008 to 2014, there have been 600 more companies. Exports have increased by 46%, from 47 billion to 70 billion. It is well known that the Swedish Democrats think that the EU is not a good idea. As I understand it, we would prefer to leave the European Union. We from the Moderates have always fought for free trade. Free trade has always benefited people, we can see so many examples of that. My question to Anders Forsberg is: How do you view the possibilities of increasing food exports? That is something that we Moderates believe very much in, if we take the right decisions and if we get a competitive industry, which we do not now have, we agree on. But how does Anders Forsberg view the possibilities of developing rural areas, if we are to close our borders again? Or have I misunderstood SD's policy in this area?
i-NmQqhYWBN3RtgNWazAbw2g	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question, Ulf Berg! It is no secret that we are critical of the European Union. Above all, we want a referendum in which the Swedish people will be allowed to decide. I think that's the most important part. As for whether or not you are in the EU, the EU consists of a number of agreements that bind and regulate our legislation and also trade between countries. We are a free trade party. It is important that trade can continue. There are other countries that have special agreements with the EU, such as Norway and, to some extent, the United Kingdom, where they are likely to vote for withdrawal. There will be a number of agreements regulating trade. I do not think it is necessary for us to pay a super-parliament that is unable to make sensible decisions. We have a parliament here where we can make decisions that are important and that affect Swedish rural areas, the labour market and so on. I think it would be much better if we could take this matter back to Parliament and decide more for ourselves.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-81	Mr President, I would like to We from the Moderates think that open borders are very important. This increases the opportunities to increase our exports and jobs in rural areas. Tolerance between people also increases if we spend more time across borders. I'd like to ask you another question. After all, the Swedish Democrats want an animal rights police – at least you wanted that earlier. It would be interesting to hear how you intend to design it. Testimonies often come that many pet owners today feel unfairly treated. I usually liken it to the fact that if I take my child to the emergency room and you find a bruise on the child, the emergency room will report it to the social services who in turn will report it to the police. We know all who have children that a bruise can occur without there being anything criminal behind it. But that is not the case in animal health. When you find something suspicious, it is reported to the County Administrative Board, which usually makes a police report. Many animal owners find this terribly difficult. The number of carcasses is increasing because one does not dare to send an animal that is a little slippery to slaughter. Then I have a thought about this with grazing requirements. Malin talks about animal health in her book. Speaking of grazing, she writes: All high-quality feedingstuffs are designed for the good of cow and with a composition that ensures that cow gets the substances and conditions she needs to produce high-quality milk. When the cows are released on bait, the feed state changes radically and the cows find it difficult to cope with the conversion, get loose feces, sour vom and do not manage to eat and then lose production. Is this a good system and a good animal health?
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-88	Mr President, I would like to With regard to the competence for controls and the vulnerability that animal owners can feel, I can very well understand it. You can experience when you get a visit that it largely depends on it if you can continue with your farm. If the person arrives at the wrong time, on the wrong day, it can have great effects. The competence that the verifiers must possess is something that we are proposing. If you are to be responsible for controlling, in particular, production plants or livestock, you should possess skills to understand what it is like. In the case of an animal rights police or animal welfare police, we highlight the proposal that a number of police officers have greater responsibilities and work on animal rights issues. I think that in itself it can raise skills and reduce some problems. It should also be borne in mind that the majority of animal welfare notifications do not apply to farmed animals but apply to so-called pet animals. So I'm not very worried there. I think you have to trust the pet owners a lot more. At all, we need to look at animal welfare legislation much more on the basis of objectives and not on the basis of means. There is, of course, a preference for interpretation there, but the interesting thing is that here we have farmers who care for their animals maybe 18 to 20 hours a day. I think they have more expertise than the animal welfare officer who comes out an hour a year. I believe that very well. With regard to the issue of grazing legislation, we are making proposals for a grazing premium, but also for the need to discuss reliefs when designing grazing legislation so that it is designed according to reality and not according to the book.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-95	Mr President, I would like to Me and my party, the Center Party, believe in the countryside and in the green industries and activities. Our struggle is about ensuring that people in rural areas too will benefit from the service and infrastructure that the city sees as a matter of course. But it is also a struggle for us all to benefit from all the resources available in the Swedish countryside in the form of, for example, land and forests. It is a struggle that can also lead to more and new jobs – jobs that we really need in our country. If we are to succeed in this fight, it is, as I see it, primarily about reducing costs, but also about securing investment and building for the future. It is about costs that we can influence, we who are in politics. What are the costs? Yes, it is mainly taxes and charges, but also costs, as many people see it, too much administration and bureaucracy. The government that I belonged to began a journey, a work of reducing costs and taxes. We also started work on simplifying the rules. We also invested in strengthening Sweden as a food country. We worked in this effort with many things, including increasing Swedish food and food exports. We note that we did not reach the end of the journey that we started. The trip was interrupted by a new, red-green government. The fact that we did not reach all the way is demonstrated, among other things, by the crisis that is currently in the midst of the country's dairy farmers, for example. In other words, there are other things to do. There is room for further action. But basically it is about reforms that make the figures that for many today are red black. What, then, is there to continue working on? What we can influence in addition to the simplification of rules and bureaucracy is, as I see it and want to point out again, above all to continue reducing costs in the form of taxes and levies. How else are we to succeed in helping these activities, which are so important to us and to our country? We can see that the red-green government that we have today has chosen a completely different course, a completely different route for its journey. Instead of reducing the costs of green industries and activities, taxes and charges are increased. You raise the costs. In addition, increased bureaucracy is announced in many areas, which also cost money. For everyone who is an entrepreneur, taxes are raised. In particular, taxes are being increased, which I particularly regret, for those who are young through increased youth workers' poisons. It will not only increase but will double the youth employers' contributions that we managed to reduce with great effort. Does this affect green industries and activities? Yes, it does. Many young people have their first livelihood, their first income, in the green industries and activities. In the forestry sector, the shift in policy is particularly clear, I think. It was only a few weeks since the government presented a review of the Forest Protection Act that it intends to do. Once again, the aim is not to simplify but to tighten up and red tape even more. Instead of working together with forest and land owners to find even better ways to take into account all the values that exist in the Swedish forest, you choose to go ahead with the work that has been started, namely to develop a common forest strategy for our country. It is a piece of work that I would like to commend in substance, but it therefore chooses to go ahead and propose an increase in bureaucracy, which will lead to further and increased costs. I cannot, therefore, stress enough the importance of putting forward concrete measures here and now, but also of proposing reforms on which we can agree, which are active and which provide solutions here and now. Good promises, Mr President, do not help. Last autumn, through my party, I presented a proposal in which we could, here and now, do something that is substantial, namely temporarily raise the intervention prices for milk that we have in the European system. But believe me! This proposal was not supported by enough parties in this House, which is why it was not feasible. Finally, Mr President, I would really like to point out that I hope that the current government will listen to the proposals that come from the opposition so that we will have the growth in the green industries and activities that Sweden needs.
i-WP9ucpGh8iLyF6KD5U6jea	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr Erlandsson, for your speech. It is obvious that the Center Party is much better placed in opposition than it did in a government position. Now, all of a sudden, there are many suggestions as to how to change this. Eskil talks a lot about here and now. When we were in opposition, we really missed this here and now. Eskil also talks about fuel prices and diesel tax reductions. After all, it was a choice in 2014 that now means that the government that is sitting is presenting a proposal that lowers the diesel tax for agricultural and forestry entrepreneurs. It's happening right now.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-114	Mr President, I would like to Let me say that I did not mention the word 'diesel tax' in my speech. I could have done it, and I'd be happy to do it now. The position taken in 2009 and 2010 included a review in 2015 of the taxes that we then decided. That review has not been carried out by the current government. In our draft budget we have a de-facto reduction of the diesel tax by 300 million. Did we reduce any other taxes and charges affecting the green industries and activities during the government period in which I was involved? Yes, we sank several that strongly affect. We reduced the so-called self-taxes twice, we reduced the general social security contribution at one time and we removed the commercial manure tax – just to mention a few examples that have a concrete and tangible impact on the profitability of green industries and businesses as well.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-117	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the clarification, Eskil! I think it was important to do. After all, Eskil set up the Competitiveness Investigation. It clearly shows that there are agricultural enterprises that are doing very well, despite grazing requirements and high animal welfare standards, and that there are agricultural companies that are doing worse. In particular, the competitiveness study pointed to the need to increase the possibilities of conversion for agricultural entrepreneurs and to ensure that farmers have access to new research and technology so that they can switch their production. What is the Center Party's proposal today? Is it restricted animal welfare? Is it worse grazing? After all, Eskil's own investigation has shown that it is not these proposals that matter to whether agricultural enterprises are doing well or badly, but these are other factors.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-121	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the questions. They are adequate and important. As far as grazing legislation is concerned, we say that it needs modernisation. We need to update the grazing legislation. Why? Because it's a couple of decades old. An incredible amount has happened during that time. For example, it is to be noted that at the time, i.e. when the grazing legislation came, eight out of ten cows were tied up. Today, the ratio is roughly the opposite. So a great deal has happened in this area, which is why modernisation is needed, as we have also proposed in motions. Research, development and innovation are very important. It was an important part that I drove hard in the vision of Matlandet Sweden and where we came very far. However, as I said in my speech, we did not quite get there because we had another government in our country. One important thing was that we prioritised research on biomass. It was one of Sweden's priority areas that was added extra funds so that we could reach even further with the biomass that we have the opportunity to produce in our country.
i-AeQD4W3MKjajXVY6nvWK24	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for an interesting speech, Eskil Erlandsson! The Center Party seems to have understood that something is happening. Perhaps it was against this background that Eskil Erlandsson recently made a move in Expressen where he attacked us for our rural policy. It can be said that the Center's attack on us is like throwing stones in glass houses, because during its time in government, 2006–2014 the crayfish path continued for Swedish agriculture. With Erlandsson as Minister, almost 9 000 farms disappeared, while the level of self-sufficiency steadily decreased, particularly in relation to Swedish meat production. When the milk crisis then struck in 2014, Swedish dairy farmers were too vulnerable. We hear some criticism, but the question is whether you have understood anything. You mention a number of proposals, but now you have the chance in opposition to come up with some free solutions. The proposals you are making to save rural areas are further investment in biofuels and intervention purchases from the EU. The question is: Is this the salvation of Swedish countryside? I, like my party, believe that we must, above all, review the tax proposals that are in place. There the Center has approached a lot of the Swedish Democrats' proposals. But the question is whether the Centre Party will come up with more proposals or whether we will see similar proposals on intervention purchases and biodiesel.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-127	Mr President, I would like to Solving instantaneous crises is important. In particular, I say that it is for companies that are very capital intensive, and that is, for example, agricultural enterprises. There the state has a special responsibility. One way of resolving crises may be to use the systems of the European Community. I and my party proposed this last autumn. These are measures that help here and now. As I recall, they have been applied on five different occasions during the eight years in which I have some special transparency. These measures led to a rather rapid resolution of crises because of the use of a system that already existed. Unfortunately, I did not get a majority in favour of my proposal when it was tried in the Parliament's EU Council. I wish that had been the case. Added to this is the need for a general reduction in costs, which we can contribute to policy by reducing taxes and charges. The proposals that Parliament is now about to vote through mean increased taxes and fees. It will not be of benefit to Swedish agricultural and forestry enterprises.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-130	Mr President, I would like to I note that we are quite in agreement, particularly with regard to the overall reduction in costs. Let us first reconnect with the intervention purchases. Perhaps we have different opinions there. My party and I believe that there is a risk that stocks will be built up that will cause problems later on. But there were also other proposals, such as a three-month delay in VAT and employers' contributions. After all, dairy businesses in particular do not have a problem with VAT, because they have an output VAT of 12% and an input VAT of 25%. To postpone the tax is rather to just push the problem. We need to look at the cost elements now, especially the national specific costs. I also had a thought about this with Swedish biofuels. The Centre Party is talking about such great opportunities, but only about 20 percent of biofuels used in Sweden today are of Swedish origin. I do not really understand how it can help Swedish agriculture.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-134	Mr President, I would like to As far as biofuels are concerned, we have enormous opportunities in our country to produce this. That is because we have a lot of land that is possible to use for the production of the raw material that biofuel production must have. I think that we should take advantage of this opportunity, partly for jobs, partly because I want the open landscape, if we talk about agriculture, but above all because what we use too much of today is a finite resource. It's gonna run out sometime. It also affects the climate in a way that I hope we agree that we cannot let it continue to do. By using renewable resources, however, we contribute to a great many goods. I hope that we in this House can agree to use the opportunity that we have in the country, because it gives us jobs, it gives us a better climate and it gives us our open landscape.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-137	Mr President, I would like to When you listen to Eskil Erlandsson you get the feeling that it is other parties than the Center Party that have ruled the country for a very long time. But we have had eight years and then another year with bourgeois economic policy and with Eskil Erlandsson himself as responsible for this important policy area. Eskil! You said something very important. You said, "Faithful promises don't help." That's exactly how it is. I believe that everyone who follows this debate and other political debates wants us politicians to deliver. We should not just make fair promises, which we then do not live up to. Matlandet Sweden was your big investment of over SEK 1 billion, which you started in 2008– I think it was an interesting investment. There you promised that 20,000 new jobs would be created in Swedish agriculture. I read an evaluation a while back. During the first three years, between 2007 and 2010, when you ruled and were responsible for this, almost 10,000 jobs disappeared from Swedish agriculture. Eskil Erlandsson! Wasn't this a fair promise you couldn't live up to? Or how many new jobs were created during Matlandet Sweden?
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-141	Mr President, I would like to I would very much like to thank you for the question. This is a particularly important issue. Matlandet Sweden, which started in the summer of 2008, gave until the evaluation was made – then they had figures until 2012 – 9 300 jobs. My promise was that we would create 20,000 jobs by 2020. I am absolutely convinced that these jobs had been created, at the same time as the rationalisation continues in Swedish primary production. I think these are absolutely wonderful figures. The fact that I was allowed to continue the second term with the vision of Matlandet Sweden also indicates that the initiative was successful. Had the initiative not been successful, I am absolutely convinced that my colleagues in the government would have chosen to put the money that the initiative cost on something else. So what did we succeed in? Yes, we succeeded in increasing our food exports significantly, as I believe Ulf Berg well reported earlier. It gives jobs, real jobs. We managed to get Sweden on the map, on the international stage, where tourism and nature activities completely exploded, which is particularly important for the young people, who often have their first job there. We got a lot of small-scale slaughterhouses in our country. It is very important for the villages where they are established, but perhaps even more important for the animals and their welfare.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-146	Mr President, I would like to I'll tell Eskil Erlandsson that we in the Left Party thought Matlandet Sweden was an interesting venture. We woke up a motion where we did not dismiss Matlandet Sweden. But we wanted to complement it with a sustainability aspect. We wanted sustainable Sweden. We thought that it was too one-sidedly geared towards production and exports and that it was not taken into account the great environmental benefits that can also be obtained if demands are made on, for example, biodiversity, organic production and so on. Now Eskil Erlandsson says that 9 300 jobs were created with this initiative. I think we should be a little honest in the debate. We're talking net. So we talk about how many jobs there is a year and compare it with how many there will be the following year. Let's take a look at the statistics. We can look at the number of years worked in agriculture. In 2007, the year before you started the initiative, Eskil, 65 000 people were employed in agriculture in Sweden. Three years later, in 2010, there were 55 000 years' work in agriculture. You can see this in statistics on agriculture. And there are a lot of newspapers that have referred to those statistics. How can you, Eskil Erlandsson, claim that there have been 9 000 new jobs created during this time when, in fact, almost 10 000 jobs have disappeared in rural areas only in these three years?
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-149	Mr President, I would like to The vision of Matlandet Sweden was not just about primary agriculture. It is an important part of Matlandet Sweden, but it is not the whole. The whole is also a breeding activity that comes after primary production, what we might call the food industry today, which is by the way Sweden's fourth largest branch of industry. It's increased. As I said in my first shift in line, agriculture has continued to be rationalised, which often leads to fewer people employed – yes. What we have to do to maintain and preferably increase the number of jobs is to reduce costs, Jens Holm. The first part of your question was about expanding Matlandet Sweden. I will remember that until the next time we get the chance to rule and to seize that opportunity, because I also think that we should have sustainable food production.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-152	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by stating that the Parliament has rejected the Liberals' proposal for a financial framework. Since we see the budget as a whole, we will not be involved in the decision on the allocation of appropriations in this area of expenditure, even if we could do so theoretically. We give our views on the distribution in a separate opinion. As I said, the budget is a whole. Liberals have made a number of clear and comprehensive priorities. It is about jobs, entrepreneurship and employment through tax cuts affecting employment, hours worked and competitiveness. It is something that benefits the whole country, both the city and the countryside. We invest in knowledge, among other things, by funding a ten-year primary school and raising teacher salaries. We have proposals for liberalisation of the labour market and the housing market and, not least, proposals for strengthening defence in these troubled times. As I mentioned on Monday, we have a clear element of green tax exchange in our draft budget. It is just as well to note that we are opening up in this area to reintroduce a leakage tax aimed at eutrophication and the cadmium content of commercial fertilisers. Exactly what it's supposed to look like, we haven't accounted for. We can see in the countryside versus large population centres. Then we can see that in the draft budget we have a regionalised travel allowance to counteract the cost increases that exist in the transport needs of rural areas – these are longer distances. Mr President, I would like to The fact that the Liberals do not raise the tax by SEK 32 billion also means that we have SEK 30 billion less in expenditure than it is in the Government's proposal, which is supported by the Left Party. It is, of course, a question of making other priorities and balanced priorities. In this particular area of expenditure, the Liberals are 300 million lower than the government's proposal. It is interesting when we discuss this. It's a lot of forestry and agriculture. It's no wonder. It has, of course, to do with employment in rural areas, and it has great economic value. But we can also say that agriculture and forestry are part of the solution to the climate and environmental challenges that we have. In this way, this debate is very much connected with the debate we had on Monday on this particular subject. The real industries are very much governed by EU policy and the conditions that are given there. Of course, we can also have views on this, and on the Liberal side, when we have the chance, we will continue to argue in those contexts that the EU's agricultural policy must be fundamentally reformed and that all direct payments and market regulations should be phased out over time. From a liberal point of view, we see that free trade, which has also been raised in the debate here today, is fundamentally positive, but that we in Sweden still need to review our own competitive conditions. After all, rural businesses and the agricultural sector are often basically small businesses, and this is about having an entrepreneurial policy in which we combat regulatory problems, bureaucracy and high taxes and charges. Eskil Erlandsson was also into this. J word mills, like other sectors, will bear their environmental and climate costs. We also think it important to stress that, in the case of public goods such as nature conservation and biodiversity, society and the state must be prepared to replace agriculture. One example at home in Bohuslän is that our so valuable mosaics could not have been kept open if we did not pay for this, and it is of course a very important thing that we do so. WWF has also shown with regard to grass grazing projects that far more grazing mules are needed in this country, or at least an increased number, in order to maintain biodiversity. To talk about the food strategy, it is important that we continue to work here with the consumer perspective and the Swedish added value. I believe that the only way forward is to be able to charge for these added value. It is about good animal welfare, not least with the low antibiotic use that we have in Sweden. To some extent, of course, there is more to look at. If I should mention the forest a little quickly, we think the most important thing is that we have equal goals between production and the environment in the future. We need to see the truly great potential that exists in the forest in terms of renewable materials, chemical products, textiles and sustainable energy production. There are many industries in Sweden that have tremendous expertise in this area, so we can become leaders. Not least, with another example from Bohuslän, the chemistry cluster in Stenungsund is extremely interested in getting part of the carbon atoms in the forest instead of the fossil. Mr President, I would like to I would like to mention another economic sector so that it is not forgotten, namely fishing. For large parts of the country, fishing is very important to maintain a vibrant coast and archipelago, which is also part of an environmental quality target. Here it is absolutely crucial that the future changes that still need to be made do not put this fishing at a disadvantage. Not least, we are talking about the coastal, small-scale fishing that we always support. The government has not given any clear information on this. With regard to the landing obligation that is now coming into force gradually, we simply need to continue to make research efforts in order for this to work well. It is about selective tools and so on. From the Liberals' side, we fully support the investment made on a new Swedish survey and research vessel. I believe that this is a crucial factor not only for fishing but for marine research at all.
i-Q6fjbTUKh4PKh3Zzc9xobM	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Lars Tysklind, for your speech. We have a large recruitment gap in Sweden today. Not least in sparsely populated areas, we have great problems finding people to the forest and to the garden sector. Many dairy companies also fail in the generational change. Now that I hear Lars Tysklind talking about the importance of research, I still have to ask you a question. In the draft budget submitted by the Liberals, there are 50 million cuts in research. There are also reductions at SLU. How does this relate to Lars Tysklind's speech on the importance of research? Is it an old remnant since the People's Party days when the People's Party was happy to talk about research and education, but in reality did severe cuts in higher education?
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-169	Mr President, I would like to That is a very justified and quite obvious question that Isak From is asking in this context. I began my speech by stating that we think it is harmful for Sweden to increase the level of taxation in the way proposed by the current government with the support of the Left Party. It is therefore a matter of priority. It is not, of course, a reduction in the appropriations, but it remains at the same level as it is. It will be easy for us to discuss the last margin, but we must also note, as Isak From knows, that there is 515 million for research in this area. Personally and also on the Liberal side, we may think that there is always reason to increase such appropriations, but we have not been able to do so this time with the priorities that we have done.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-172	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the post, Lars Tysklind! I thought that the great division that exists between the bourgeois parties became clear there. When you go further and look at the Liberals' proposals, you see a substantial reduction to the Swedish Board of Agriculture of 36 million. Is that part of the Liberals wanting to phase out EU aid? Is that why the Liberals are now putting forward a proposal to remove money that reinforces agricultural subsidies so that the Swedish Board of Agriculture can pay out the EU subsidies that are so important to agriculture? 36 million is quite significant money, and here I see a very large period of conflict between the bourgeois parties. Two bourgeois parties are clearly talking about the need to increase subsidies, subsidies, to farms, while the Liberals are talking about and actually making proposals to make it impossible for these subsidies to be paid out.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-174	Mr President, I would like to From our side, we think that the Swedish Board of Agriculture must also review its operations. Paying out these subsidies is still one of the basic functions of the work, and we believe – once again on the basis of the priorities we are making – that this must be able to be achieved by the Swedish Board of Agriculture.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-175	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Lars Tysklind, for your speech! I have to start by saying that it was very good that someone more than I am going to mention also the blue industries, and I hope that it will be as natural to talk about local fisheries as if locally grown in this House soon. We'll have to stand up. Having said that, I also have some questions similar to those Isak From just put. Liberals have long been the ones who have held the flag high when it comes to nature conservation. Lars Tysklind talked nicely about public goods and how we had to jointly take certain costs. It is in your reservation on the environmental aspects of forestry, alternative logging methods, ecosystem services, biodiversity conservation, protecting nature conservation and environmental protection and providing greater protection for the remaining old forests. Despite this, you have the biggest cut or difference when it comes to the funding for the forest. You've got 102 million less than the government's bill. To this you also add 50 million less when it comes to research in these areas. What's the connection?
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-180	Mr President, I would like to I have already answered the question about research. With regard to forest ecosystems and natural values, both parties, the state and forest owners, have a major responsibility in preserving biodiversity. You could say that the entrepreneurs in the forest industry take precedence. We can see in all the journals we receive from different stakeholders in the forest area that the articles are about sustainability, long-term sustainability and so on. Entrepreneurship will take on a great deal of responsibility. We are talking about an increase, not a reduction, in the appropriations. We believe that within the priorities we set, there is no room for an increase. You can have comments on that. Both the state and the forest industry have a responsibility. Then there was the question of public goods. That is actually the part of the European system that we can defend. There are things that can never be profitable. I brought up the mosaic land at home in Bohuslän. There is nothing that can be profitable in a market. The consumer perspective shows that there is great added value that many are willing to pay for, but basically it is not possible to get it profitable.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-183	Mr President, I would like to Sweden has forestry that will probably need to become more intensive. There must be renewable energy and fuel. This will increase the pressure to produce biomass. I spoke to a company the day before yesterday that produces wood fibre floor covering cloth instead of plastic. This would reduce the use of plastic in agriculture by almost 300 000 tonnes. The canvases would also be soil improver. There are incredibly great opportunities in forestry and what we can use biomass for. With this great pressure, we must also ensure that the natural values of the old forest also remain, so that you have not walked the yard around when you have cut down the forest and there is nothing left. There are today forest owners who have waited a long time for compensation for voluntary provisions. They haven't got them. We probably need to increase the rate of provisions and buy in forest so that it remains when the other forest is farmed. Is it really the right effort to cut the funding instead of raising it?
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-187	Mr President, I would like to Basically, it is not just about appropriations. During the time of the alliance government, we introduced a system of land change where we used the state's forest holdings in Sveaskog. We have heard many testimonies that forest owners thought it was a good system. We visited Västmanland to see the fire area. There someone had just switched to the state forest. Perhaps it was the irony of fate, but somehow it was sorted out. There they witnessed how good it would have been to have such discussions. We should not just get caught up in a budget issue. As far as the old forest is concerned, I want to make it clear – and it is clear from our specific opinion – that we fully support the fact that there is a lot of old forest that we need to preserve precisely because it contains so much biodiversity. Nor must we forget that forestry itself, as Emma Nohrén says, is becoming more intense. It will also place increasing demands on industries to stick with sustainable forestry in the long term. I am full of confidence that many measures are still being taken precisely with regard to biodiversity. We should not see a contradiction in this. The big problem I can see is that there will be such a great competition for the resource forest so that we have to channel where it does the most good.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-192	Mr President, I would like to I am presenting a special opinion in favour of the Christian Democrats' draft budget. In most discussions on rural challenges, it is the material and economic values that are debated most frequently. They are extremely important. But there are other values that are also important. We Christian Democrats believe that we have a deep moral responsibility for the land we inherited, that is, the idea of stewardship. We have a responsibility that we have inherited from generations back, and we pass it on to our children and grandchildren. Invaluable cultural environments and unique resources in nature must not be lost. At the same time, the countryside cannot be regarded as a museum from a bygone era. It is possible and necessary to combine conservation and protection with modernity and development. None of us can tell us what the future will be like and what needs will be central to mankind in a hundred years' time. However, certain needs are always valid; man always needs food for survival, and man needs nature for his well-being. We have a moral responsibility to manage this. Sweden's agricultural entrepreneurs contribute concretely to the long-term management, which is a central part of Christian Democratic ideology. Agriculture is not just any industry. The earth lies where it lies and cannot be moved abroad. If we want it used, there must be people here in our country who are prepared to do so, who think that there are good enough conditions for working, living and living in the Swedish countryside. It is a question of economic conditions, and of course it is also a question of communications, services, security from being subjected to crime and everything else that gives a good life where you live and work. It is we, my political colleagues in this House, who can make the political decisions needed to make this possible. Mr President, I would like to The world today faces threatening climate change, increased energy needs and a world population heading up to 9 billion. The number of people suffering from hunger is greater than ever. The Christian Democrats believe that agricultural policy must take its starting point in these fundamental circumstances, that there are arable land to be used for food production in the future. Maintaining Swedish agriculture is essential for security of supply in our country as well. Today we import half of our food. What happens if the situation in our surrounding world deteriorates so that imports are disrupted or prevented altogether? Is Sweden prepared for this? The issue must be on the political agenda. Mr President, I would like to Agriculture is central to employment in Swedish rural areas and in the food sector. In order to safeguard food production for the future, it must be stated that the cultivated land is an irreplaceable and vital resource. It is the policy's task to provide farmers with reasonable conditions. The best way is through generally good conditions for the entrepreneur while taking into account the specific nature of the agricultural sector. My friends! Milk is one of Sweden's most important food products and accounts for one fifth of Swedish agriculture's income. Unfortunately, the development of Swedish dairy farmers has shown a negative trend for a long time. We know – these are the facts – that five dairy farmers stop every week. In ten years the number of dairy farmers has halved. Prices for milk are at bottom levels. Beeslands and pastures grow again, for there are no grazing young animals anymore. Twenty percent have grown again with sly and shrubs in ten years. In recent years, the crisis has worsened, mainly as a result of developments in Ukraine and the boycott of European dairy products by Russia. The gloomy picture must now be turned to belief in the future among Swedish farmers and other rural people. We must create a level playing field between Swedish and other European farmers. At the beginning of this year we had Christian Democrats Milk Day here in Parliament. By the way, there will be a follow-up on 14 January next year. About 90 dairy farmers came here from all over Sweden and told their stories about being a dairy farmer in the toughest time in manna memory. Their stories touched deeply. It was real. Many had already given up, and many may have to give up. Thousands of jobs will be lost. It can go really bad if this is allowed to continue. In order to meet the crisis in the milk sector, the Christian Democrats have proposed that the dairy farmers should receive annually SEK 1 000 per cow for the additional costs that Swedish milk production has in comparison with other EU countries. It is easy to believe that the milk crisis is over. Money comes from the EU and from the state, and that is a pretty good thing, one can easily believe. What if it were so well? Do you know what the price of milk is today? I called a dairy farmer in the waste heap this morning. He was in his barn milking the cows. I asked what the milk price is today. He replied that it is 2.67 per kilogram of milk, if there is no deduction for example for milk errors. When you count the money from the EU and the state, the price is up to about 2,71 – 2, 72. But in order for the farmer to survive with his nose above water level, we all know that the farmer should have 3.60 – 3.70 per kilogram of milk. During my travels around Sweden I hear the same thing. The dairy farmers say: If you politicians want milk production left in the country, it must be noticed in our wallets. Otherwise, we're going to disappear. We have the chance, my friends, to make a difference for Sweden's dairy farmers and our countryside. We in the Christian Democrats want to do that. I support the Christian Democrats' draft budget.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-205	Mr President, I would like to I thank Magnus Oscarsson for his speech and for his passionate commitment to the situation of dairy farmers. During the eight years when the bourgeois alliance had government power, we lacked members like Magnus Oscarsson here in the Riksdag. Then we saw nothing of any arrangements like Milk Day and so on. Essentially, the Christian Democrats are a conservative bourgeois party that opposes all forms of contributions. The Christian Democrats traditionally work on the basis of the gift principle, in any case when it comes to welfare. For the agricultural sector, however, aid policy has now been adopted. Now a proposal of 340 million or 1 000 SEK per cow has been put forward in additional cost compensation. Has it somehow escaped the Christian Democrats that we are in the European Union and that such support is equivalent to state aid? Is it something that Magnus Oscarsson and the Christian Democrats in opposition care about at all?
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-207	Mr President, I would like to I thank Isak From for the question. It's like he says – we've had eight years in the government trying to do what we could. But you always want to do even more. The real crisis took place in 2014. It has been very tough years for dairy farmers in 2014 and especially in 2015. And the crisis is not getting any smaller. We notice, as I said in my main speech, that the crisis continues. Milk farmers have it infinitely tough and difficult. If we do nothing, but just let this be, we will see a lost generation. We will see a great many dairy farmers disappear. We were at a seminar this morning where author Malin Sundin spoke about the situation of the dairy farmers. When you listen to her story you understand that lots of dairy farmers may give up because it does not work to produce milk in our country. Then you can say that it is good – or you do something to try to improve for Sweden's dairy farmers. The Christian Democrats' proposal is not the only one possible. It is certainly possible to put forward other proposals. But we think we need to do something to improve for the dairy farmers. We can't just stand by and say it was boring. We are presenting the proposal. It is clear that we can work for this in Europe. It is infinitely important that we do something and want to make a difference.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-210	Mr President, I would like to I thank Magnus Oscarsson for his answer. Magnus Oscarsson's rhetoric involves releasing free subsidies for the agricultural sector among other EU countries. But that is what we have consistently opposed regardless of government ever since we entered the European Union. There should be order among the agricultural subsidies. What I see now is a total fragmentation of the bourgeois parties. On the one hand, we have the Moderates and especially the Liberals, on the other, the Christian Democrats and the Center Party. They're right against each other. One side wants cuts in subsidies, the other wants increased subsidies. Is it not the case that we have to work on the basis that farmers and farmers are actually to be paid for what they sell? Today there is a shortage of milk, cream and crème fraiche products, among other things, but is it the case that the money goes to farmers and farmers? No, it's not like that. The money goes into the trade. The farmers and farmers we are trying to support through the food strategy – which I will talk about later – so that the money goes to those who produce. I think everyone here agrees that we do not want more subsidies to be spent on taxpayers. This is particularly true of the bourgeois parties. We want the market to carry itself. On this particular issue, however, the Christian Democrats are folding off and proposing gigantic new aid, which is, moreover, completely illegal and not even feasible.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-214	Mr President, I would like to I thank Isak From for the line. It is good that we are having a discussion on this. I hope this is just the beginning of a discussion on the situation of dairy farmers. It's great that Isak From, the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the government are watching this. I know you've done it. We also know that some money has actually arrived. The EU has spent 73 million, and the state has laid just as much. That's good. But that's not enough. We need a commitment to keep production in the country, so that we can tell our children, to future generations, that we have milk production in the country, that there is milk available that is Swedish. It's extremely important. It's approaching Christmas, Isak From. It's only a few days till Christmas Eve. I'll give you a present, a book entitled Spilled Milk. You will read it this Christmas and when we meet after New Year, we can continue to discuss the situation for Swedish dairy farmers. This applies not only to what has been, but also to what is happening right now. If we don't do anything, we'll keep doing it. Let us discuss the issue on Milk's Day on 14 January.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-217	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr Oscarsson, for an interesting speech. It is interesting to hear that the Swedish Democrats and the Christian Democrats are close. Oscarsson mentions equal conditions and takes up the proposal on the grazing allowance. From our side, we see it as very positive that there are more parties that are putting forward proposals similar to those of the Swedish Democrats. You can always discuss funding. As I understand it, the Christian Democrats are fully or at least partly financing the grazing allowance by taking money from the rural programme. We choose to make new money. The behavioral benefit is interesting, because I think we need to test the systems. In Sweden, we are far too afraid of the guardian of the EU. I think we have a great opportunity to implement them. There was a comment in that part. My question concerns the diesel tax. I do not think it has escaped Oscarsson that we are about the worst in the class seen from a European perspective. The question is what KD wants. Do the Christian Democrats want to move closer to Europe, or even Denmark? Will there be a will? Will there be concrete proposals in the future? It would be interesting to know.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-220	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Anders Forsberg, for the question! It is interesting that you mention the grazing requirement, Anders Forsberg, because I have not really understood how you think there. Are you in favour of modernising the grazing premium? Many times we get caught up in the way it used to be by maybe watching old TV movies. We who grew up with Emil in Lönneberga have before us a picture of what it looks like with that part of production. But the grazing requirement came about 30 years ago, and a lot has happened. Of course it needs to be reviewed. My question goes back to you, Anders. I want clarity in, and take the opportunity to ask, how do you view the grazing requirement? Are you willing to look into it? Is there anything that the Swedish Democrats want to do on this point?
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-223	Mr President, I would like to Yeah, it was a pass back. I would like to ask the question of the diesel tax again, because I would like to have a little comment on the diesel tax on the part of the Christian Democrats on the will and possibilities. With regard to grazing legislation as such, which I mentioned in my speech and also to some extent mentioned in the replicas, I think it is important to review grazing legislation in order to modernise it. However, we are still standing by it. We believe it is important that there are grazing animals. These values contribute to an open landscape and to biodiversity. Since I have the background I have, I am well aware that milk production as such is associated with a lot of additional costs. The legislation we have makes it difficult to get paid for these additional costs. I'll send the question back. I'd love to develop it.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-227	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Anders Forsberg! It is important to make it clear, because I notice when I discuss with dairy farmers in the country that many people wonder what the Swedish Democrats think. They wonder if the Swedish Democrats understand their everyday life or if they just talk about it in the Riksdag and then present something else. It's important that you said you were in favour of some kind of modernisation. Yet you do not want to change in depth. I think that's a flaw. It is important that we can discuss the issue in the Swedish Parliament. It makes sense. As far as the issue of diesel tax is concerned, I would like to say that we obviously want to see a change in diesel tax. In our draft budget, we have reached the point where we want to compensate all farmers for the increase. So we are lowering the tax on diesel for farmers. We think that is important. In the long term, of course, we would like to do much more if the money existed, because it is an injustice. It is important to review all the costs that Sweden's dairy farmers, and farmers at all, have in our country. There are costs that may only be here. They need to be reviewed, and I hope that we can come up with more such proposals later.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-230	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating Category 23. I was very frustrated when I was in the speaker's chair last year and knew that no matter what I said, the new majority would support the bourgeois budget, the majority which was then supported by the Swedish Democrats. Now it feels much better. For me as a small farmer's son from Västerbotten's inland it feels great to stand here and present a policy of new faith in the future throughout the country. First of all, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report and reject the motions. The S-MP government, in cooperation with the Left Party, sees the breakdown within Category 23 as part of the budget proposal as a whole. One area cannot be seen separately from another, but everything is linked – education, the labour market, nutrition, the environment, infrastructure, health care and, not least, migration. In addition, all this is linked to the fact that the real industries should feel good and be able to develop. There are encouraging reports that the Western Sea crayfish is increasing and that once again fishing can increase quite sharply. There are also reports that more salmon can go up in our rivers and rivers thanks to the efforts that have been made. Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht asks to greet the committee from Brussels and wish you a Merry Christmas. He would have liked to have been here today to debate, but the fisheries negotiations on the West Sea in particular have been delayed. Mr President, I would like to I usually fish pike with my children; especially the youngest son is very interested in it. Last summer I wanted to develop it a little bit, so we went to Byskeälven to fish some trout or maybe some salmon. There I met the German Hermann. Hermann is from Berlin and usually goes to northern Sweden to fish every year. He was a little split. He said that fishing is getting better and better, but the trains are not going and the country store and other public services have disappeared. He wondered what politics the politicians in this country actually have, if they do not see the opportunities. I screwed up a little and said that now we have a new government that sees the possibilities and has the ambition to reverse the trend. But I also said that the government is fully aware of the uphill. Why am I telling you this? Yes, because it is my conviction that it is the key to the survival of the countryside. Urbanisation has been strong in our country, and we are aware that the Social Democrats and all previous governments, regardless of colour, have contributed to the urbanisation that has been strong in our country. But times change and changes in government take place. The S-MP government has many bold goals set to stem the unemployment and negative development that we inherited from the bourgeois government. We are now working to reverse developments in all areas, not least in rural areas. In rural areas, the failure of the previous bourgeois government's work is most evident. As I said in the line shifts, we have a recruitment gap. People don't look for the vacancies that actually exist. There are many vacancies even in the agricultural industries. We have said it before and will say it again: Sweden has very good resources when it comes to natural resources. We have very high quality food production, and we have the forest: these are renewable engines for the whole country. We have taken three important initiatives to stimulate jobs in green industries: the food strategy, the national forestry programme and parliamentary preparation for the whole of rural areas. Marianne will later address the food strategy in particular. Let me say, however, that there are more brands than Västerbottenost and Kalixlöjrom that this country can export, and that is what the food strategy is about, in addition to getting quality food on our Swedish kitchen tables. It is a difficult competitive situation now, not least for dairy farmers. Therefore, the government is now clearly proposing that agriculture and forestry should be compensated for the proposed increase in diesel tax. It's a $ 199 million bet. But we can see that this is not quite enough, but we are proposing another SEK 100 million. I can assure you that we take very seriously what is happening in the milk sector in Sweden. The government and in particular Sven-Erik-Erik have devoted a lot of time and commitment to this issue over the past year. We are increasing national support for farmers in Norrland. We give the Swedish Board of Agriculture the important resources they need to be able to pay out support on time. After the budget was completed, we have also decided that 96 million, of which 76 million from the EU and 20 million from national funds, will be able to be paid out. In 2016, we will pay out another 56 million of national funds to companies. So that's 150 million in total. I'll tell you something about the forest, too. On Monday, we discussed the climate agreement in particular, which is very important, and where forests are a key factor. Sometimes the concepts of the debate are confused. It sometimes seems like we have deforestation. We do not have that in Sweden. What is happening in the Amazon, Indonesia and Africa should not be compared to what is happening in our country. Here in Sweden, the forest is already in a managed system. With this, we have about the same amount of forest of all ages that can be harvested each year, and this means that the forest can be useful all the time. And to those who say that the forest is not enough, I would like to say that this government can prove that that is not true. We can invest in both industrial forestry and the protection of forests. We are both able to meet these commitments. We can do this, because it is important for future generations. That is why the Government's commitment to the work of the national forestry programme is so important. We believe in collaboration. Therefore, the government has also conducted dialogue processes around the country with all interest organisations. This is important in order to achieve broad acceptance of forestry policy. There is one thing I'm worried about and a development that I want to warn you about. The GS union recently showed that migrant workers have once again been mistreated and exploited in Sweden under slave-like conditions. Politics is connected. That's why a prime contractor's responsibility is so important to the forest as well. In the forest there is also game – game strains that in Sweden are stable and growing. It is a resource that must be managed in the long term. Wild meat is an important and climate-smart resource to be exploited more. Not least, we all have to work to have more game meat on our kitchen tables. No one could be happier than me when the government now presented a proposal on mountain hunting. With this, the government is ticking off an election promise. It is an issue on which we have pushed in opposition and on which the committee has also given an announcement. Now we hope that as many people as possible will respond to the referral, so that the Swedish Board of Agriculture can change the regulations. It is also important that the government is now able to take on a collective game management. It is time for us to move from individual conservation to conservation plans and a collective game management that takes into account what the land actually bears. I'm gonna finish the way I started. It is important to see the policy as a whole. We have a large recruitment gap in Sweden today, not least in rural areas. Therefore, migration also offers a great opportunity to lift the Swedish countryside. I am pleased that we now have a government that sees diversity as a growth factor. It's important. Finally, I would like to quote the former Prime Minister Göran Persson, who said in one of his speeches on the Green Home: Agriculture is a green future industry. The forest is our biggest collector. I think that is a good guiding principle for this debate. I would like to conclude by wishing Mr President and Members Merry Christmas and Happy New Year. I'm sorry I took time.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-254	( ANDRE VICE TALMANN: Thank you for that! I would like to remind everyone, for the reasons set out, of the agreement reached by the President with the group leaders on a six-minute speech. )
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-255	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by congratulating you on this mountain hunt. I am the first to admit that I believe that the Socialist Government's proposal is much better than the decision taken by the Alliance Government, which caused it. Then we've got it figured out. Otherwise, I do not find very positive proposals from the Social Democrats. That is why I would like to ask you a question about the diesel tax. You get some compensation. This is done with about 400 million litres of diesel in agriculture and forestry. Of them, 170 million go to the forest and the rest to agriculture. Of the agricultural sector, about 20% may go to dairy farmers. So milk production does not meet very well, but at the same time it is valuable for the industry in terms of competition. But the increase in diesel taxes will, of course, hit the transport of forest products. They are not among them as tax refunds, but instead they have an increased cost. At the moment we are seeing reductions in fuel prices, but this is also happening internationally and is something that competitors are also taking part in. Overall, therefore, there is an increased cost. Since this is not enough, S, V and MPs continue to want to introduce a kilometre tax of SEK 14 per mile. That will be 280 000 – 300 000 more per year for a timber car that runs about 20,000 miles per year. How is this an improvement? How do you create jobs in the forest with the tax shock proposed by the S-government now and in the long term?
i-Ly518Gy3ct5cFjTiPYUVsQ	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Ulf Berg, for the questions! We can now see that we have a government that goes from words to action. In spite of the fact that we now have the lowest fuel prices in many years, unlike the bourgeois alliance government, we propose that agricultural and forestry companies be compensated for the tax increase we propose, and the compensation is greater than the tax increase. What is important to have with you is how to motivate more entrepreneurs to invest in renewable fuels. Is it by making fossil fuels as cheap as possible? We don't think so. We believe that renewable fuels are a growth factor for forests. It is important for forest owners and forest companies that we can extract more products from the forest. Now Ulf Berg also lifts the truck tax, where there is actually no ready-made proposal on the Riksdag table to take into account, but these are just assumptions. What we can note is this: In the measurements made in Småland, for example, about half of the trucks that travel around foreign countries are. Should they be involved in paying for road maintenance and wear and tear on Swedish roads? Is that reasonable? If it is reasonable, they may also be involved in paying in one way or another. The new S-MP government will come back with a proposal to the Swedish parliament, but as I said, it is not clear.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-262	Mr President, I would like to I think that Isak From is a little careless with the truth and uses an argument that is completely wrong, that the kilometre tax should get to the foreign hauliers. In my opinion, it is quite the opposite. It only increases the profitability of deceiving the system. Raised diesel taxes and the like rarely hit those skiers. They have their own diesel with them from the countries from which they come, and that is not always the best quality. This will worsen. I ask again: how many jobs do you get when you introduce the mileage tax? It is also something where reference is made to the fact that we would have better roads. However, the Prime Minister and the Minister for Finance have been very clear about what the 4 billion expected to be used for. They're for building fast rail lines. The interior of Norrland and those of us who live outside the big cities should therefore be involved in financing that those who live in the royal capital can quickly go to Gothenburg and possibly also to Malmö. But now it is becoming even more expensive, so the government may need to consider charging an even higher mileage tax. The Kilometer tax is an incredible threat to the areas I come from and should be where Isak From comes from, i.e. where there is a long distance and where work is needed out in the areas in order for people to stay but where products often have to be transported to markets. I am incredibly afraid that reflections on investments and other things will stand by pending a proposal. When you consider investing, you may make it closer to the large urban areas. It will hit us hard to watch places where there are less people.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-266	Mr President, I would like to Ulf Berg comes here again with a lot of assumptions. We can ask Ulf Berg : How many jobs do you think can be created if we get more biorefineries in Sweden that can produce renewable fuels? How many jobs are created if companies can hire harvesters who take care of the frog instead of firing them? How many jobs can we create if transport starts to work? That is what the S-MP government is now proposing and which is in a different allocation within the infrastructure. It is the maintenance of the heavily deprived railway investments that have been for many years in Sweden. Companies must choose truck transport regardless of the industry because the railways do not work. That is the kind of discussion that we need to take. How are these commodities, this timber, this timber, these agricultural products both produced and transported? We must see this as a development and be able to take steps forward. We cannot stand by and stomp in the same place, especially when we have the lowest fuel prices for many years. Then this government makes a clear position and lowers the diesel tax, the fuel tax for agricultural and forestry entrepreneurs.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-268	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the presentation from Isak From. It is gratifying that the government chose to increase the refund of the diesel tax to SEK 1.70. One of the restallians' perhaps a little less good afternouncing is that you let it go that way. I'm glad you choose to restore it. But at the same time you choose to increase the tax on diesel and petrol, so what you give with one hand you take back with the other, despite the election promises. It was previously a debate on food security and rural development. There I can feel some concern from the point of view of agriculture and forestry. What is the view of the Social Democrats on agriculture? Do you see it as a business that we will further develop in Sweden? If so, what are you prepared to do? Are we prepared to take a holistic approach to the issue? The new food strategy is well spoken of. But we really haven't seen anything at the moment, and it will be most interesting to see. I have two specific questions. One concerns animal welfare legislation. There's information that there's gonna be a bill this spring. I wonder, then, how does Isak From view animal welfare legislation? Are the objectives or means the most important? The second is forestry legislation. Do forest owners need to be concerned about restrictions on forestry, as might be done with the government that is sitting today?
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-273	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Anders Forsberg, for the questions! I think these are important issues. I believe that Swedish animal welfare legislation is based on strong tradition. Animal welfare legislation is the basis for consumers to choose quality and choice our products. There is reason to review certain elements of animal welfare legislation, and this government will return to Parliament with proposals on how we want to do it. As far as forestry legislation is concerned, we can see that we have lived with social democratic forestry legislation for many years. In the many years that we have had the forestry legislation that we have, the forest has grown into. It grows more than we take out. What we want to look at is the conditions in which we can clearly see that things have gone wrong, that something has happened that is not good. Different owners, entrepreneurs, forest companies and buyers can blame each other. In this respect, there must be clarification of who is guilty. It is particularly important for the forest owner to know that he will not be convicted if the construction company commits an error on his land. These are the parts that we think are particularly important to sort out. For the sake of forest owners, we want to find out who is actually responsible. It is not reasonable that a forest owner who sells his forest to a forest company that, without the forest owner's knowledge, hires an entrepreneur, can be fined or perhaps even more.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-278	Mr President, I would like to There were two questions that I had. Nevertheless, it is gratifying to mention this with animal welfare legislation. I understand that it is rather difficult on the part of Isak From to go into the proposals in advance, but it is more about an attitude, how to look at this on the part of the Social Democrats. I mentioned the issues of both animal welfare legislation and forestry legislation because, after all, the government is associated with a party that is not directly defined as rural friendly, at least not according to the majority of those living in rural areas. There are proposals made by the government that are rather worrying. What is Isak From's view of grazing legislation? We've had that issue up before. How do you view it as a government party? Is there a need for reform of pasture legislation? It would be quite interesting in that case.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-281	Mr President, I would like to I began by saying that we believe – and really want to press – that Swedish animal welfare legislation is based on a long tradition and a solid foundation. So does the grazing requirement. It's very important. I think it will be difficult to market Bregott and Swedish milk if we cannot show grazing cows in green meadows.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-282	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by congratulating all of us on our success in the area of fisheries. I think it is important for biodiversity. It is important for the activities that exist within and around fishing. I would like to ask Isak From the following: which government negotiated the agreements in force in the fisheries sector, so that we have now actually achieved these good results in the fisheries sector, and I am therefore delighted with them? The second question I have concerns the general increases in petrol and diesel taxation proposed in this budget. In what way do they help people and businesses in the Swedish countryside? In what way does the increase in taxes on fuels and the tax imposed on ethanol help businesses and people in the Swedish countryside? How does this contribute to a more fossil-free society? My third question concerns the forest area. Why is the work undertaken by the Alliance Government to develop a national forestry programme, which I thought was good, overlooked by examining and proposing a change in forestry legislation? Such things should also be included in a national forestry programme, if it is to be developed together and in a community?
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-286	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mr Erlandsson for the questions. I think he agrees with me that investigations, especially investigations where there is a review, are carried out by governments. It is not done by various programme commissions and so on. It is important for the national forestry programme to actually look at the forestry law that we have today. What works well, and what would you possibly need to change? It is this review that this government wants to do to see what we need to do in that case to take the next step. I believe that the most important thing for rural areas and for the whole of Sweden is that we actually move from fossil fuels to renewable fuels. The low fuel prices of fossil fuels are then a major challenge overall. This is the big challenge for forest owners around the country. If we can get more products from the forest, it will also benefit rural areas.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-288	Mr President, I would like to Isak From did not answer my first question about which government negotiated the agreements in force in the fisheries sector. I can inform the House that it was the government that I belonged to. I am pleased that the negotiations that took place and the decisions that were taken have led to what Isak From stated in his speech. I hope that we can all rejoice in that. I will go back to the fuel taxes that mainly affect people who have no alternative. I find it very difficult to understand why we are taxing an alternative fossil-free fuel and, at the same time, raising public fuel taxes on petrol and diesel. It makes it difficult for people and their activities that are so dependent on means of transport to function properly in our society at all. I also find it very difficult to understand why we are anticipating work on which we in this House generally agree must take place. Normally, program groups and the like initiate the need for regulatory changes and legislative changes. A government does not usually anticipate the work of a programme group by itself going in and suggesting things. But it is probably also the case in this case, just as in the hunting field, that the government's Social Democratic Party has been forced to dance after the Green Party's pipe.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-291	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mr Erlandsson for this. It is a good thing that for a long time we have largely had a consensus on fisheries policy. I'd be happy to commend Eskil. Some things he did were good and important.
i-5373c366f387ae68-0	Thank you. ) I have told Eskil before that he was having a bit of a hard time with his comrades in the bourgeois alliance on other matters. He did not get his policies through in several different areas. There are some misconceptions, as is often highlighted, that it would be rural people who lose the most from increased fuel taxes. But investigation after investigation shows that it is actually in the metropolitan regions that you drive the most car. It's not up at my place. There are commuters, and the labour regions are getting bigger. There are other measures, such as the ability to train, the presence of buses and the addition of new fuels to refuel your cars. It is these efforts that are important. Those who will pay the most for increased fuel taxes are urban residents. Let us be clear on that point. It's the big city people who will pay the most.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-296	Mr President, I would like to I have some understanding that Isak From drifted away from the question of fishing. Eskil Erlandsson reminded us a few times that it would not disappear from the arena. We can look back a little to the time when Sweden, led by the then Minister Erlandsson, negotiated and reformed the common fisheries policy. On a number of occasions, the Social Democrats allied themselves with others and came up with positions that meant that Sweden actually ended up in a worse negotiating position than one could have been. We can say that we have basically had a consensus. However, the dissenting views expressed during that time did not add much to the debate. I am very pleased that Isak From brought up fishing, and Minister Bucht would certainly have brought it up if he had been here. But there is a national dimension to this, and we have the capacity of the fishing fleet. I mentioned in my speech that we must somehow ensure that coastal small-scale fishing has a chance in the transformation which, after all, must take place. Then there is the question of whether there is any concrete strategy at all for how this is to be done.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-299	Mr President, I would like to I thank Lars Tysklind for this. I think there are many along our coasts who appreciate that we are actually debating fishing here in Parliament. We from the Social Democrats see the tourism industry and sport fishing as very important to increase both the number of companies and the number of jobs in rural areas. That is where we see that we have an untapped resource. This involves other policy areas, so that entrepreneurs actually dare to start businesses in order to receive those who want to travel to our country to fish the fish that goes up our rivers now, which is in our inland waters and which is largely an untapped resource. But that requires a holistic approach to politics. This requires that the country merchants remain, that the trains go on time, that you can get there and from there and that there is a reasonable service. These are a number of different areas. Training efforts are also needed to achieve this. In fact, this is where politics divides us most today, Lars Tysklind.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-302	Mr President, I would like to That was not really the answer to the question I asked, but it was surely a good answer. I agree that there is a huge potential in the tourism industry just linked to fishing. There is also another dimension to the tourism industry linked to fishing, if we are talking about a living coast and the archipelago. Without working fishing, it is also quite poor to be a visitor in many places. My question was really about coastal fishing and the expression Emma Nohrén used, namely: I don't know if she made it up on her own, but I think I've heard it before, but it's an interesting perspective. However, it is based on the fact that we give small-scale fishing the opportunity to remain and be profitable. In this sector too, structural change is needed. Had we had ministers here, I might have been able to ask the question right away, but I thought that Isak From might know if there is a strategy within the government on how to deal with this issue so that we do not impoverish this particular fisheries.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-304	Mr President, I would like to There are several different necessary efforts to make. The most important thing, as we have agreed, is that we are moving forward through negotiations on fisheries policy. It is about seeing that we have several different species that have got a better status and can actually fish. That is, of course, what benefits coastal residents and fishing companies the most. One reason why the tourism industry has not been able to grow is that salmon have not been able to go up in the rivers because they have had traditional fishing that has made it impossible. That is why it is important for us in Parliament to have as broad a majority as possible, so that we can secure this important natural resource for the future in the long term.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-306	Mr President, I would like to I will try to keep to my six-minute speaking time, but you get so much ideas when you sit in this Chamber. Yesterday the speech was at least six minutes long. We are here today to debate territory 23 Areella industries, rural areas and food. I must say that it is with pleasure that I am debating these extremely important parts of our budget. It is in these industries that our food is produced, and it is in rural areas today and the biofuels of the future are produced. It is in the magnificent Swedish nature that tourism goes on high speed, and it is within our field of funding that the key to a fossil-free Sweden lies. Without a strong countryside, Sweden stands flat. Unfortunately, this is rarely the case in the general debate. I believe that there is a city standard in Sweden where the city is the cool and normal – what you start from – while the countryside is allowed to be what is a little outside and what is to adapt. The countryside is the little brother that the city should pat on its shoulder. The city represents what is modern, such as growth and success, while the countryside may be that which is a little behind. Those who don't get out of there are the ones who left, it's called. Just take the language! In the city you invest tax crowns, but in the countryside you make subsidies. That is why I am pleased to be included in the government base that actually invests in rural areas. It is a government that wants to set up long-term strategies and rules of play for industries there, often by consensus across party boundaries. A good example of this is the parliamentary committee for Sweden's rural areas, which will develop a coherent policy for Sweden's rural areas. We also see the Environmental Objectives Committee, which is parliamentary. Many of the solutions and things that come out there affect rural areas, and that is done in concert. We have set up the Procurement Authority, which started on 1 September, and amended the rules on public procurement to facilitate the procurement of environmentally friendly, organic and locally produced food. It will be easier for those who produce and produce to sell locally grown and locally fished. We also have work on a food strategy that is underway and that hooks its arm with it. That is something that we in the Green Party have exercised many times and that we now look forward to developing. We continue our work on the national forestry programme and investigate important changes in the forestry law. We are investing in tourism and there is a development in destination. There, Swedish nature and ecotourism is the major drag locomotive abroad. It is our nature that attracts people to Sweden, and it provides jobs and entrepreneurship in rural areas. I believe, however, that the strategy that is closest to my heart is the maritime strategy. This is an integrated Swedish maritime policy covering at least four ministers' areas, of which the Minister for Rural Development is one. Finally, we have a document which seeks to take a holistic approach to these industries and which stands on three legs: balance, competitive maritime industries and attractive coastal areas. It is strange that a country that has one of Europe's longest coastlines, large parts of sparsely populated areas, has not had such a document in the past. We have an incredibly long coastline, and we have many industries poking at – both old and new. It is therefore important that we have a plan for how, where and when to use the sea so that it is not overused. It is already in many places in the world and also in some parts here in Sweden. That is why it is extremely important that we have this strategy in place, and I hope that we will also have small-scale fishing so that we can keep it. Our fishing should rest on a social, ecological and economic basis. The priority of socially and ecologically sustainable fisheries lies in the CFP for the EU. I am also happy to be part of a government that sees the importance of not leaving the countryside behind when we change Sweden. We increase the funding for methane gas reduction by 30 million annually – an important investment to enable us to reset Sweden. We invest in commercial service in sparsely populated areas – keeping the shop in the village does a lot and brings many benefits. Postage and pharmacies are a few things, not to mention social gatherings. It is also good for the climate, because with close proximity to the store there will be fewer car trips to the mall. We have also allocated money, even in other areas of expenditure, to public transport in rural areas. It will never work as it does here in Stockholm, but we must dare to invest, believe and look at new solutions. We also invest in the forest. As I said in a replica earlier, we see that the forest will play an important role in the climate transition. Forest biomass is a major part of future climate-smart fuels and renewable energy, but we cannot cut everything down without reflection. We must proceed with care, and this must not be done at the expense of biodiversity and reduced ecosystem services. We need the resilience of forests, ecosystem services and biodiversity. Therefore, it is important that we develop a varied and more sustainable forest management where, for example, clean and clean can be part of the answer. All forests can or should not be used, and so it is important that, even now that we see the boom for biofibre uses, we set aside natural forests, protect habitats and make it easier for landowners who want to voluntarily protect their forest so that it is not gone when we find out that we need it. We should also welcome the increased demand for organic products. Last year it increased by over 30%, and so far this year consumption has increased by over 50%. It is important that it happens for Swedish products – that we can respond to this. We therefore have extra money, 200 million, for a conversion aid for those who want to convert agriculture into organic. It's good for the farmer, the animals, the climate and nature. Then I must also say that it is gratifying to see that the Swedish species project has received its 15 extra million so that we can continue the work of obtaining information about biodiversity and mapping it. For we do not know what we have, nor do we know what we have to preserve, and we will not miss it until it is gone. With the statement of these efforts, and others which I have not had time to do so, I would like to call for the proposal in the report to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-321	Mr President, I would like to Emma Nohrén mentions in her speech, and she did so in a previous debate, that forestry will need to be more intensive. Those were rather interesting words for the Green Party. They also talk about investing in the forest. But investments in the forest are rather to buy more forest and make more reserves. I don't know how I want to define it as an investment in the forest. You can have different discussions about that. The question is: what does the Green Party really think about forestry? They say you're too clean. Hygges-free in itself will also minimize production. It is said that we want an increase in withdrawals but also an increase in protection. Somehow it's like keeping the cake but still eating it. If we are to be able to produce all the products that the Green Party in particular highlights, different fuels from the forest or whatever it may be, then we must increase production. What is the Green Party's position on this question? It would be interesting to know.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-324	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question, Anders Forsberg. There have never been so many trees in Sweden as it does now, but never so little forest. We have a lot of wood fields out in our country but very little old forest. We see that more people want to enter the market, and we see new products. But we also see a decline in old products, for example for those who make paper. We must ensure that we are able to protect the forest that exists so that we do not cut it off just as the development takes off. We must do so now while it is still there. There are many who want to use the forest differently. I myself am a forest owner and have a clean living in my forest. I believe that a life cycle in the forest will bring as much money as ordinary forestry, and we will get better high-quality timber. I don't see contradictions here. On the other hand, we must be able to investigate the different varieties and ensure that the forest that can be protected so that the one to be used is also the one used and so that one does not make mistakes.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-328	Mr President, I would like to The question that has not yet been asked is: Can you support all the things that you want to do on behalf of the Green Party? Is there really room for that? You can always discuss that. When many of the other parties talk about freedom and responsibility, it seems that the Green Party and, above all, the Minister for the Environment are talking about more rules, more governance, and so on. Alternatives are, of course, good. That is something we can encourage at all. It can be said that much of the forests that are very valuable are simply old farm forests. We basically agree that the protected biotopes should be saved. But one can discuss when a government representative says that we need to set aside up to 11⁄2 million hectares of forest to be protected. Maybe it's hundreds of billions of dollars. Does putting it in reserve and creating some kind of coniferous forest really do the most good to the forest? That's what's happening. If, for example, you leave a shift with ash, aspen or similar and you do nothing, it grows after 30, 40 years basically up coniferous forest there. It's usually the effect we see. The government today does not even have the figures that it is able to manage the reservations. There are not even statistics on how many reservations are managed according to the management plans that exist. We have another vision. The question is: Should it be more freedom and responsibility or more rules and governance?
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-335	Mr President, I would like to We need to jointly take responsibility for protecting common values, such as forests. A forest that remains does the greatest climate benefit and holds its coal. If we have varied forestry, it is clear that it must be up to the forest owner how to do it. But there should also be opportunities to make different forestry plans for how you want to use your forest. We also spend money on research to see how to make better use of the forest. We have overproduction on certain biomass media, while other new ones will come. We do not know how much we will need from biomass in the future. But we see that we have a shift from ordinary paper to other uses. There are many different solutions. It's gotta go to research. We cannot allow this to happen at the expense of the natural values that exist. We have set aside money for the management of natural areas. But it is another area of funding. I think it'll work out at the end.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-339	Mr President, I would like to I'm gonna stick to the woods, too. From a moderate point of view, we believe that there is much we can do about the forest that can contribute to a better climate but also to jobs elsewhere. As a good example, we can use wood for building. We must remember that in Sweden for 100 years there was a ban on building high in wood. It ended when we became members of the European Union. We can see in Stockholm that you now start to build high in different places, and you build in wood. It's a great carbon sink compared to other things. It's not just that the forest should stand and be a carbon sink. If we can keep the wood, it's still a carbon sink that works. There was talk of investing in quality. I'm a forest owner, too. You can see how it is with stem blocks on fura today. It's not that much of a craving for it. What happens in practice? Well, you cut off twigs, glue together, and you get twig-free. I fully agree with Emma Nohrén that it is difficult to do the opposite, i.e. to invest in growth, and then quality is needed. But if you have quality, you can always sell. I have two questions. Firstly, does the Green Party value its own provisions? There are many private forest owners who have a huge interest. It's about most people. They set completely voluntarily, without cost, of forest. Secondly, Impediment is something that must not be used. It is generally clear that it has a huge benefit for ecosystem services. Is that good?
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-346	Mr President, I would like to Ecosystem services are good. I want to start with what you first talked about building in wood. We're really gonna do that. The problem we have today is that we sell qualitative Swedish timber on export. What we have left turns into pulp or glue, as you yourself said here. As a forest owner, you can get a higher value from your forest by using it properly. If you ring bark – not entirely, it's called something else – your furs can be produced after seven years with a fat wood that can be used. It's harder than railway sleepers, and you don't have to use creosote. It's amazingly good wood for high things and other things that have to stick together. The idea of forestry is to increase value. We have spoken here today about milk prices. If you look at the timber prices, they have roughly the same development. As a forest owner, you don't get as well paid for your timber as you should have if you look at how the development has been. It's boring. It is not an incentive to improve quality. There are very many parts of the forest that I think we will agree on. Voluntary provisions are a great idea. But it must also be a long-term approach. I think a lot of forest owners want that. There are studies that show that many have quite different entrances to their forest ownership than just having the greatest possible return. They have recreation, care and natural values. That's great.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-350	Mr President, I would like to It is also my belief that many people love their forest and want to set aside and make it long-term. Biofuel, which was also Isak From, I think it can be used in a much better way in the short term, for example in Värtaverket here in Stockholm. But the raw material must be transported. It would be perfect to recycle biofuels and sprouts in place near the hut. But there is a problem. Electricity is produced as two thirds of the energy heat, which is why it is appropriate to do so where there are district heating networks and the like. Then you can produce electricity and at the same time use the waste heat that becomes. Therefore, it must be transported to larger locations. Then it is counterproductive with the system the Green Party wants to introduce in the form of mileage tax. But we've already talked about that, and I don't understand how the equation goes together. I am convinced of the importance of diversity. I agree with Emma Nohrén that this diversity often exists in the private and small-scale. Here Emma Nohrén has an idea of how to manage the forest, I have another and so on. This guarantees that it will look different. We know that one or another stubborn forest owners have fought against the Forestry Board and others, and they are portrayed as heroes for taking the battle. Freedom under responsibility is a good solution, and I hope it will continue with MP in the government.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-357	Mr President, I would like to We spend a lot of money to protect the forest. We also spend a lot of money on research in these areas to move forward. Within Category 20, we are investing heavily in the management of natural values and nature conservation. I therefore believe that we will have good and healthy forestry. We have to look at all the values of the forest. With small forests, there are certain values, but we also need to have more coherent parts. Perhaps the individual forest owners are not enough here. Then we have to go in together and create them, and I think we can do that.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-359	Mr President, I would like to I thank Emma for her speech. I thought I'd stick to the woods, too. It seems to be an important issue for many of us. That is why I ask: how do the government and the Green Party want future forestry policy? Can the thousands of forest owners around Sweden be safe with the 1993 motto, Freedom Under Responsibility? Or will there be limitations to the effects in the future?
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-361	Mr President, I would like to I thank Magnus Oscarsson for the question. Work on the national forestry programme is under way, and we will see what it lands in. We are also reviewing certain parts of the Forest Protection Act. I think we need to review and update certain elements, but I cannot answer this now. The investigations and programmes will have to show that when they have supported and wet this.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-362	Mr President, I would like to My question comes from the fact that the Green Party has pushed for a review of forestry policy. Now comes an investigation directive, and according to it the public's right to appeal the decision of the Swedish Forest Agency is to be analysed. If it becomes a reality, it is extremely serious. I know many people who are deeply concerned about this. This applies to the whole of forestry with forest owners and forest industry. What's the Green Party thinking here? Does the Green Party have its government partner on this important issue?
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-364	Mr President, I would like to Environmental considerations in forestry must increase and have rules of play that all agree on and that work. There is a need for a review of existing rules and laws, and that work is under way. However, we do not know what the changes will look like today. We know that there are problems in forestry, not least for tourism. The tourist organisations in Värmland that are engaged in nature tourism have renamed the green huts as moose watching places so that the Germans will not turn and go home again. How the forest is managed and how it looks is partly a matter for the individual forest owner, but it is also about the landscape we all share and how nature and wildlife work.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-367	Mr President, I would like to By far the largest part of Sweden's surface is covered by forest. In the Swedish forest, many interests are to be shared. Among other things, the jogger runs on winding paths, berry and mushroom pickers provide the pantry with an addition of chanterelles and lingonberries and ecotourism companies that create jobs and experiences for thousands of visitors from all over the world. For the forest industry, the forest is a raw material that creates timber, boards, paper, biofuels and so on. All these interests should be weighed together in the Swedish forest. But it is high time to take greater account of Swedish forestry. We know that the environmental objective of living forests and many other important environmental objectives relevant to forests will not be achieved, so we need to do more. That is why I am pleased that this budget, which the Left Party chooses to support, includes major investments in forests, more sustainable forestry and more protection of forests and land. Yesterday we had the debate on Category 20, and even in the area of expenditure we are now debating, 23, there are major investments in more protection of forests. Yesterday we were told that the Swedish Parliament's investigation service notes that the investments now being made in forests, the environment and climate are the largest in at least 20 years. It feels good. Within this expenditure area, there is an increase in appropriations for nature conservation agreements and biotopes protection. We are also increasing the appropriations for agri-environmental work. These are funds that have been stagnating for many years of bourgeois austerity policy. It is therefore high time to raise ambition. The report we are dealing with also deals with animal welfare issues. The Left Party believes that we must show more respect for animals. We look forward to the proposal for a new Animal Welfare Act announced by the Government to be presented in early 2016. We expect improvements to be made for animals, such as more animals being offered outdoor stay and living up to the requirements of the right of all animals to natural behaviour. We therefore see no future for the fur industry in Sweden because this activity violates the animal's right to natural behaviour. We want Sweden to go the same way as other enlightened countries such as the UK, the Netherlands, Austria and others and put an end to the cruelty to animals on the Swedish fur farms. I am also looking forward to the establishment of a so-called 3R centre for animal testing in 2016. The purpose of the centre is to reduce, refine and replace animal testing. This is incredibly important, because we are talking about hundreds of thousands of animals suffering and killed in animal experiments in Sweden. We believe that the Centre may need additional funding in the future and that it will not be enough with only the grant available within the Swedish Board of Agriculture. We will see when the centre is set up, and then we will have to follow the matter closely and see if it needs to be spent on extra money. Mr President, I would like to I am chairman of the committee's monitoring and evaluation team. In the report we have an annex – car. 4 – where we have made a review of the government's reporting on how well one achieves the goals one claims to want to achieve. We note that the government does not always report the results achieved on the objectives it has set itself, but mixes results with measures. We say in the report that we hope that the government will improve in this area. We want the government to come back with an account of how the objectives are achieved to strengthen the situation of Swedish farmers, not least those who work in the milk sector and who are in a very strained situation right now. We also want an account of the investments in the Swedish Food Administration's work against cheating in the food industry, which is a serious area. With regard to eutrophication, we note that the two departments we are dealing with – the Ministry of Environment and Energy, which is responsible for Category 20, and the Ministry of Industry, which is responsible for Category 23 – give quite different images of the results of the work to reduce eutrophication. We want greater stringency in reporting on Sweden's work towards eutrophication. Increased stringency and clarity – that is what we are asking for. All this is to read in car. 4.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-383	Mr President, I would like to I thank Jens Holm for his speech. I have some thoughts about the forest. It was really the day before yesterday that the debate was. One can see how much money is spent on reservation formation in particular. If you look back 20 years – because Jens Holm brings it up – you can see that it has increased about 550 percent. Almost six times as much money is spent to protect or buy forest, so-called forest management. One can think about the goals of a living forest and so on. It can be said that many of the objectives set are not really achievable. We can take the target of Living Forests. Even if we were to remove all human activity today or tomorrow, we would still not achieve it. The question is whether you should have goals that you can achieve or whether you should have goals that are some kind of fantasy. Of course, it is good that we work on the basis of biodiversity and try to work with the environmental part, but how far is the Left Party prepared to go? How much forest is enough to protect?
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-387	Mr President, I would like to We have no quantifiable figure on exactly how much more forest needs protection, Anders Forsberg, but it is significantly more. That's it. We have international commitments, such as the Nagoya agreement on biodiversity, where the countries commit themselves to protecting 20% of the land. There we have a long way to go in Sweden. Then it's not just about quantities, it's about quality, it's about representative areas – that there should be a high level of biodiversity in the areas we protect. I am the first to admit that this costs some money. That is why we are making this historic investment in both more nature reserves and better protection and management of the reserves that we have today. I think it is a pity that we do not have the bourgeois parties and the Swedish Democrats with us on this issue. It should really be a matter of course for all parties who are supporters of good nature conservation. I find the policy of the Swedish Democrats strange. You claim in this debate that you want to allocate SEK 1 1⁄2 billion more to this area, Anders Forsberg, but all of us here know that you are voting in favour of the Moderates' budgetary framework, which means huge cuts across the whole framework to finance tax cuts. How does Anders Forsberg make ends meet?
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-393	Mr President, I would like to It was interesting that Jens Holm mentioned that you talk about quality instead of quantity. I think that is much needed and something that I think we need to start with much more in politics. You measure how much area you have and how much you happen to have of it and that, and it becomes more important than quality. With regard to many of the protective biotopes today, it is more interesting to have many and more widely distributed biotopes than to have large ones. As mentioned earlier – I think it was Ulf Berg – we have quite large areas up in northern Sweden that are protected, but in southern Sweden the proportion is very small. It affects and is above all a rural issue. Tourism and the other parts can also be highlighted, but the forest is, after all, an important resource for our country. I have another thought on which there has been a discussion in the past, namely freedom and responsibility, or rules and governance. How does Jens Holm view it?
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-397	Mr President, I would like to I note that I did not get an answer on how the Swedish Democrats put it all together. First, we vote in favour of the Moderates' budgetary framework, which means cuts and austerity across the board, including in this area. Then you say you want to bet more. Anders Forsberg asked me a question about freedom under responsibility, which is a bit of a slogan for Swedish forestry policy. I do not think it has worked very well. Sometimes it's actually freedom without responsibility. That is why we in the Left Party want the Forest Protection Act to be reviewed. We want more regulation in certain areas. This is not just a matter for 300 000 forest owners; it is an issue that involves 9 million Swedes and tens of thousands of people who come and visit our country. This is a question of how we can achieve our 16 environmental objectives. Then it is important not only to look unilaterally at production but also at how we can take great account of our forests.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-400	Mr President, I would like to As far as forests are concerned, the supply of wood has increased by 1 1⁄2 billion cubic metres, and we have therefore also tied 1.5 billion tonnes of carbon dioxide. We have done this because we have a productive forest. If the forest remains, it will slowly but surely stop growing. It starts to self-grate, the trees die and we have lost the ability to bind further carbon dioxide. I would like to ask a question to Jens Holm on this: Is it not good to continue to ensure that we have a growing and productive forest where we have a high quality of the provisions we make? In the municipality of Jokkmokk, for example, 75 per cent of the forest is abandoned, and they want to cancel further. In my opinion, you may not reach much higher value then. I have another question about the Animal Welfare Act. Molstaberg is a place where wolves have been attacked and where the county administrative board more or less forced the sheep owners to bring in the animals prematurely. Is that how the Left thinks we should solve the problem with the wolf? I have one more question. The County Administrative Board reported the owners for violation of the Animal Welfare Act, but it was closed down by the prosecutor. Does the Left think that there is reason to adjust the legislation so that one can punish sheep owners who have closed their animals in a satisfactory way but cannot keep the wolf out of it?
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-406	Mr President, I would like to I will try to answer all the important questions that Ulf Berg is asking. First, it concerns forestry. Quality is important, as I said, and it is important that it should be representative soils that are protected. To make it easy: You should not look unilaterally at forests up in northern Sweden, but this should apply all over Sweden. I think Ulf Berg raises an important point there. In order to enhance the quality and ambition of the forest area, we have this historic effort, in which I regret that the Moderates are not present. They are not even involved in the report, which deals mainly with voluntary provisions for nature conservation agreements and biotope protection. The Moderates do not want to be involved in raising this appropriation. Instead, they reduce by SEK 100 million. If you cut so much, you get nothing more than a reduced level of ambition and less quality in the protection of forests. I think that should be said. As far as predators are concerned and how we protect ourselves from them, it must be done in a legally secure way. I think that's important. The changes that you made so that you can no longer appeal to the court do not consider us to be legally secure. Quite a lot of others with us think the same thing. There is also another important thing. It is a question of prevention and of providing support for people who farm and, not least, livestock farming in rural areas. That is why, with this budget, we are, for example, increasing the compensation for wildlife damage. You should receive higher compensation, you should be able to fence in and you should be able to do better preventive work. Don't the Moderates think that's good?
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-410	Mr President, I would like to I have said this before: you raise 20 million kroner. A tenth would have been needed in Molstaberg, and it is only one farm. This is an industry in which we know that the demand for lamb meat is increasing. There are good conditions for animal husbandry in rural areas and, in addition, high natural values when pasture land is grazed. We fully agree on that, Jens Holm. There need to be grazing mules, or else the sly will grow again. I, who live in the country, usually say that when you turn your back on cutting the saw, it has started to grow up maybe ten small shots instead of one. There is really only one reason to make sure it works well. It is undisputed that these are high biological values. When it comes to decomposing land, I think we need to get smarter. The great forest fire in Västmanland was a great disaster. But there can also be good things coming out of a disaster. We all know that forest fires also create a new type of vegetation and other things. I asked a question in connection with a forest excursion: How long can one say that the effect of a forest fire remains? About 30 years, was the answer I got. Then I started to think like this: Now they have redeemed forests that after 30 years have no particularly visible memories of the forest fire. But it is still not a productive forest land. It might have been better to ensure that landowners had received various subsidies during the time when they have benefited from the forest fire in terms of biodiversity. Then, when it rings, it becomes productive forest again. Wouldn't that be a better solution?
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-413	Mr President, I would like to Perhaps that could have been a better solution. It's a little hard to go into a particular case. But I note that Ulf Berg is talking about subsidies, and then I guess he means subsidies from the state to the forest owners. There we are again, Ulf Berg. The day before yesterday, you dismissed increased investments of SEK 600 million. It was a historically great effort on more protected forest but also on better management of the protected forest. Today, you dismiss investments and want to cut down by SEK 100 million for better protection of the forest. At least I can't get this together. On the one hand, how can you stand and talk about higher contributions to forest owners who want to protect forests and, on the other hand, in the next breath make these draconian cuts?
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-416	Mr President, I would like to Just like Isak From said, I'll talk about our food. It fits pretty well this way at lunchtime. Our food is a subject that touches and engages. Our food is a source of both joy and anxiety. Often we meet headlines on headlines that warn of various dangerous substances or infections in our food. It is not easy for all consumers to know what is true or false and what you actually need to worry about. That is why the work of our control authorities is incredibly important. What's in the food I'm buying? Can I trust the content statement? Consumers must have confidence in the food they produce and sell. In 2014, the Swedish Food Safety Agency established a special working group that coordinates all work against food fraud and other irregularities and provides support to the control authorities. Since October 2014, there has been a new function at the Swedish Food Authority, the Food Ombudsman, to receive tips on suspected irregularities. Mr President, I would like to It is important that consumers are well informed about the foods they buy and that they trust the control authorities and producers – this in order to make informed and healthy choices. Different sectors are now working towards increased voluntary labelling which, together with tougher EU rules, can make it easier for consumers to make informed choices. Trade plays an important role in informing about the origin of goods and the added value of Swedish food. Sweden uses less chemicals in agriculture than other countries and has less antibiotic use. Our food is made with great regard to our environment, and we have high standards of animal welfare. This is one of the success factors for the Swedish food industry. Consumers are also increasingly calling for organic food. Here is a great opportunity for producers to take part in a growing market, both in Sweden and in other countries. Mr President, I would like to Requirements for environmental protection and animal welfare in public procurement are important instruments for increasing Swedish food production. The public meal will contribute to good health and sustainable production. The public meal is an important tool for influencing the demand for high quality food. It is important that the public sector does not buy food that would be illegal if it was produced in Sweden. The Government has established a procurement authority that will make it easier for municipalities to buy Swedish. Rules have also been developed that make it easier to procure Swedish food. The Government's goal is to increase Swedish food production and create jobs and growth throughout the country. Swedish food exports are important for increasing food production and creating new jobs. Here, the Swedish added value such as our food safety, freedom of salmonella and low antibiotic use and the less climate impact can be used in marketing, where Sweden can become the sustainable food country. Our food is also of high quality. This together can give us competitive advantages. We also need to develop the processing rate and create products to strengthen competitiveness while strengthening the Swedish food brand. The food industry is Sweden's fourth largest industrial branch in terms of the proportion of employees, and it creates jobs throughout the country. The sector has a very large share of small enterprises, but a few large companies account for the bulk of production. There is a great potential for development and increased exports. The Swedish Board of Agriculture and the Swedish Food Administration have been commissioned to help Swedish companies that want to export by working for export approval and to solve export-related problems in third countries. Reducing barriers is central to Swedish companies entering new markets. Mr President, I would like to Another important factor for Swedish food production is the tourism industry, where food and beverage experiences are an obvious part. Globally, meal tourism is a growing industry. Making food and drink a travel business places increased demands. This applies, among other things, to the supply of local raw materials of the highest quality and to building stories about where they come from and how they have been developed. It is possible at local and regional level to create meeting places between food producers and visitors. Here the tourism industry becomes part of the development of Swedish food exports. The food strategy, which will be on Parliament's table next year, takes a holistic approach to many of the challenges we face in terms of production, consumption and growth. The aim is to increase employment, production, exports, innovation and the profitability of food production while achieving national environmental objectives.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-428	Mr President, I would like to I too have requested the floor to talk about the food we eat, our agriculture and the food strategy that the government is now developing. The Green Party looks forward to a visionary and sustainable strategy being put in place. It is a strategy for how we can increase profitability and sustainability in all areas of food production, and a strategy for how food consumption in Sweden will become more environmentally and climate-friendly and more healthy. The Green Party believes that an increase in Swedish agricultural production and an increased focus on organic production should be stated visions for this strategy. Fishing must be based on sustainable fishing quotas and priority should be given to fisheries with the least negative environmental impact. It is important to continue to stimulate environmentally best agriculture, certified organic farming, but we also need to focus on eliminating what is environmentally worst. The formulation of the food strategy in line with national environmental objectives is a prerequisite for the long-term sustainability of the strategy, fisheries and agriculture. This sounds rather obvious, but it is important to stress. Environmental objective one – E tt rich agricultural landscape, A rich animal and plant life, B bordered climate impact, Sea in balance and living coast and archipelago, L övande lakes and streams, Toxic environment and G round water of good quality – are all goals related to what we eat and drink. It is therefore important to change tracks from the use of fertilizers, toxic chemicals and, by extension, GMOs to smarter, more natural-like farming methods with reduced use of chemical pesticides and the use of less toxic substances. Mr President, I would like to Good instruments are important for us to have sustainable agricultural production and sustainable consumption of food. The Green Party believes that public procurement is a key to stimulating organic, locally grown, locally fished, Swedish and a larger proportion of vegetarian in public kitchens. In order to achieve the Government's ambition with increased organic production and consumption, goals are important. The previous target of 25 per cent organically in public consumption has given great impact in many municipalities and county councils. The Green Party believes that they need new ecological targets for both consumption and production and the proportion of organically grown land. Mr President, I would like to It is often said that we in Sweden have competitive disadvantages, for example that we have high costs for work and buildings and poorer cultivation conditions. But it is also important that we highlight our competitive advantages. Sweden's main competitiveness in terms of food is our Swedish added value, our relatively high environmental and animal welfare requirements, our low antibiotic use and our high food safety. These are values that must be protected and strengthened. Mr President, I would like to Sweden has a great potential to increase food production and take greater responsibility for global food supply. In the future, there will be increased demand for food as the population grows. Access to productive agricultural land will be a major competitive advantage. Protecting Swedish agricultural land is an investment for the future. We should protect agricultural land by working against the abandonment of agriculture and avoiding the use of highly productive agricultural land for other purposes. Sweden is today far from self-sufficient in food. Most of the inputs currently used in agriculture as commercial fertilisers and fossil fuels cannot be produced in Sweden. This means that we have a low level of emergency preparedness. However, we are all in a position to have a high level of food emergency preparedness. We can strengthen it by converting to fossil-free and by replacing the input funds with renewable ones that can be produced in Sweden. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to say that increased sustainable food production in Sweden is also about improved emergency preparedness.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-440	Mr President, I would like to We now have to deal with Category 3 on the appropriations for the Swedish Tax Agency, the Swedish Customs Agency and the Swedish Kronofogdemyndigheten. A functioning tax system and a functioning payment system are the basis for our economy to function. Our three fiscal authorities have important tasks to ensure this. The decisions we make in the Committee on Taxation are largely international. This could involve adapting Swedish tax legislation to the EU and automatic exchange between nations. This and all other decisions will then be implemented by the three authorities whose funds we will decide on later during the day. First of all, I would like to make it clear that the work of the Committee on Taxation is increasingly linked internationally. This is important because of the increased movement of people, goods, businesses and capital, which both the European Union and the globalisation of the economy have brought about and which places more demands on our work and on the work of the authorities. Mr President, I would like to Taxes have a number of objectives. Taxes are generated to our public sector to finance both welfare and investment. Taxes are generated for distributional, environmental and other consumption-driven reasons. It is desirable that they are simple and that there is predictability and legal certainty in the levying of taxes. Basically, it is an important objective for us as legislators that there is legitimacy behind the levying of taxes. Fewer people say they know someone who works black. According to Sifo studies, the number of people who know someone who has engaged in undeclared work has also decreased. That is a happy result. With more jobs, more taxpayers and clear signs of a shrinking black economy, there are also more resources for welfare. It is a combination of the Swedish Tax Agency's internal development work, new legislation and reforms that strengthen tax collection. These include decisions made by the Swedish Parliament regarding increased control possibilities for the Swedish Tax Agency. The RUT and ROT deductions have also helped to change attitudes towards tax evasion and undeclared work. The autumn migration agreement includes an increased RUT deduction for new services. Unfortunately, however, the government maintains the reduced ceiling, which means a half to $25,000 per person per year. It also means a dieted ROT deduction. That is, of course, worrying. Both the Swedish Financial Control Agency and the Swedish Financial Control Agency warn that undeclared work will increase. I know that there are ideological differences in view of ROT and RUT. But none of us want more undeclared work. The development of undeclared work must be closely monitored. The EU and the globalised economy have led to increased mobility of people, goods, businesses and capital. Therefore, simple and predictable rules, as tools to ensure competitively neutral trade, are becoming increasingly important. The task of the Customs Agency is, among other things, to simplify legal trade and prevent illegal trade by offering flexible customs procedures for foreign trade, simple border crossings for travellers and effective border protection. In a Europe that is discussing more controls between Member States today, we need to stop and see what effects this has on trade and mobility for citizens. The positive effects that our openness has brought us must not be reversed. Mr President, I would like to There is a consensus across the block border on the need to strengthen efforts to maintain a good willingness to pay in society and to help prevent debt from having to be recovered. The Swedish Enforcement Authority has worked and works methodically on this. The recent strategy against over-indebtedness by the current government continues the work carried out by the alliance government to reduce over-indebtedness. That is a matter of great urgency. Finally, I would like to reiterate the legitimacy of the levying of taxes. An important condition is that our authorities are present throughout the country. This is particularly true of the authorities with which the vast majority of us come into contact. The question of the state's presence is absolutely central to the society we want to build, to the efficiency of the state administration itself and to growing companies. Creative people should see the state as a support and not as a limiting force, but as an anchor in reality.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-453	Mr President, I would like to A free and open world of migration, asylum rights and opportunities for people to move across borders is a much better world than we once had. Then countries were closed. You shut the world out. It held back people, businesses, jobs, jobs, growth and jobs. Sweden is one of the countries in the world, or perhaps the country in the world, which benefits most from the openness that we have conquered for decades. But transparency also places very great demands on our Swedish authorities. Right now, we're dealing with an emergency. The Finnish Customs and the Swedish Tax Agency are faced with tasks they may not have had before or at least not had much of. It is therefore important that we give sufficient resources to our authorities to enable them to carry out their work. It gives strength to Swedish entrepreneurship, which gives growth, which in turn provides jobs and essentially a fairer distribution of society's resources. Through a number of hard lessons and experiences, we have learned what may be the backsides of transparency, as the world economy is testing our preconditions fully. For example, we experienced this during the 1990s crisis. At that time, the Swedish economy was under great strain, and many people lost their jobs. At the same time, we would be dealing with major crises in our surrounding world, including the Balkans, East Africa, the Middle East and so on. We've met that kind of challenge before. We'll get through them again. The basis is that we have strong, capable and skilled authorities. The Alliance's view is that we should be proud of our authorities in Sweden. They shall also have the resources to carry out their activities in the best possible way. When we had a new economic crisis in 2008, we could see the difference from what it looked like in the early 1990s. We had the opportunity to implement supply reforms on the labour market that allowed more people to participate. We also had resources in the economy. We had large surpluses, partly from the time of the Swedish Government Persson and partly from the first year of the Alliance, which we could use to stimulate jobs and growth. The basis for this was a strong fiscal framework with expenditure ceilings, balance targets, surplus targets and more. The framework was a guiding principle of politics and forced the government to prioritise and use the money in the best way. Therefore, the Moderates are calling for nothing more than the government's proposal today. The Parliament has already decided on the framework decision that governs how much resources are allocated to authorities. We protect the order that exists. We therefore refer to our specific opinion. If, instead, we had an alliance government, there are things that separate the proposal that is on the table from what we would have implemented instead. These include increased opportunities to combat terrorism. We allocate 5 million extra to the Swedish Tax Agency together with other authorities to counteract this. We note that the minority government has taken this on board and has written that this activity is important. We welcome it and, of course, hope that eventually it will also be followed by money to face it. What concerns us a great deal about this is not directly related to the exercise of authority. There is a relatively broad consensus in this House on what the authorities should do. What concerns us Moderates and the Alliance is that there may now be a much more difficult task ahead of the authorities, as a result of the policy pursued by the government. We have seen earlier in Sweden what a reduced RUT deduction, a reduced ROT deduction, increased taxes of about SEK 40 billion on jobs and growth can do with tax morality. We have seen what it can do with the Swedish Tax Agency's ability to carry out its mission in the way it is intended. Of course, when tax standards fall, pressure on public authorities increases. We have seen in previous S-governments that confidence in the tax system has been very low. Acceptance for working black has been significantly higher. Mr President, I would like to Just as Per Åsling, chairman of the Committee on Taxation, referred to, there is concern within the Alliance that now badly implemented tax reforms will increase the burden on the agency in such a way that the resources that are eventually allocated will not be sufficient. In order for authorities to be able to carry out their work in the best possible way, in order for the Tax Agency to continue to grow in confidence and be the good service authority it is today, it needs to be accompanied by a tax policy that has broad legitimacy. It should have high efficiency and lay the foundations for more jobs and high growth. It provides opportunities to start and run companies and gives entrepreneurs the opportunity to be, stay and grow here in Sweden. It is with concern that we are looking at the government's proposed tax increases. And it is with concern that we ask ourselves the question: How will the authority mission be developed in the future? The IRS, among others, has done a very good job over the years. Legitimacy and popularity have risen, even among entrepreneurs who were previously very dissatisfied. But it is based not only on the work of the Tax Agency but also on a tax policy that can win broad approval and that can make sure that the jobs become more numerous.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-468	Mr President, I would like to At the outset, I am in favour of reservation 1 in paragraph 2 of the Sku1 report by the Committee on Taxation. I also agree with our specific opinion on paragraph 1 because we do not support our proposal. The three authorities that our expenditure area includes, the Swedish Tax Agency, the Swedish Customs Agency and the Swedish Kronofogdemyndigheten, have important tasks to handle, namely to ensure that the state revenue is realised, to protect Sweden against harmful flows of goods and to ensure the flow of payments. In addition, they have a wide range of other important side tasks. It is therefore a question of authorities which, in a number of different respects, are the prerequisite for the functioning of society as a whole. Swedish society is based on people wanting to do the right thing and that they contribute in different ways. It is the most important component of the Swedish people's soul. Strong social capital is the backbone of the construction of society, and this means that we naturally choose to make an effort to do the right thing and that we have a strong desire to share our assets with those who are in a worse situation. Security, solidarity and transparency are the second key words in our building society. It has also been the basis for how the Swedish state apparatus has been built and developed over the years. We have strong trust in our authorities and a conviction that they are acting fairly and effectively. Mr President, I would like to This is the starting point of the Swedish Democrats when we discuss the budget of our three authorities. We in the committee have visited all the authorities, talked to officials and nailed relevant reports on their activities. We have also valued other information we have collected in different ways. On the basis of this, we have come to the conclusion that there is a need for additional resources to enable these authorities to meet the requirements and expectations that are set for them. This means that there are currently relevant differences between the resources available and the tasks that the authorities have to carry out. We believe that this needs to be addressed for the authorities themselves, for their staff and for Sweden as a nation. We see that a supplement to the Swedish Tax Agency is needed to manage an increased need for different control functions. Effective controls are a fundamental prerequisite for correcting errors and punishing attempts to evade taxes. We also see that the large investment in increased user-friendliness and accessibility in the electronic services that the Swedish Tax Agency is working with is producing good results. The Customs and Kronofogdemyndigheten are also well in place in this process, which is gratifying. However, this is an area where you cannot rest on old laurels, but requires continuous development in order for the services to be modern and relevant. The technology opens up new opportunities for more effective cooperation between authorities, which we believe is an important development area in the future. That is why we are adding 50 million extra to the Tax Agency in our 2016 draft budget, which we are therefore not voting for. Mr President, I would like to V also sees the need for a substantial addition to the Customs Agency to cope with the increased risks of controls on the flow of goods at the country's borders. We see, for example, a sharp increase in the influx of illegal weapons, alcohol, tobacco and drugs. We see a need for increased staffing at border controls in order to create a relevant working environment and increased security for customs officials carrying out the important work. We also see a continued need for resources for the Swedish Customs Agency to be able to complete the most important efforts resulting from Sweden's commitment within the framework of the common customs legislation, UCC. Therefore, we add 219 million extra to the Swedish Customs Agency in our 2016 budget. We also see that the Swedish Enforcement Authority has a large and important work ahead of it, to work on developing the possibility for over-indebted, not least entrepreneurs, to undergo a debt restructuring. For this, the government has set aside SEK 10 million over three years, which we think is a good measure, because the situation of small businesses in the default situation is particularly problematic. Perhaps the measure should have been taken a long time ago, but it is positive that it is now being implemented. Mr President, I would like to The service and information provided by public authorities to businesses and the general public is an important factor in creating legitimacy for the exercise of public authority. Therefore, we believe that they should have an organisation that geographically spans the whole country and can provide the necessary functions to enable them to operate fully throughout Sweden. At the same time, we must also require the authorities to act as cost-effectively as possible. An important factor is therefore to continue to develop electronic services and that information is always available via the internet, telephone and, where necessary, through personal visits. All in all, the efforts of the Swedish Democrats would provide increased opportunities for our authorities' ability to work for a strong trust in society and good conditions for legal activities that want to do the right thing and contribute to welfare. These are important efforts that help build an open society based on security and solidarity between people.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-478	Mr President, I would like to I would like to support the Liberals' second reservation on paragraph 2, certain questions in the customs field. Then I would like to follow up on the specific opinion that we have in the report. The tax increases that the government is now making have a major impact on the activities that this area of expenditure has to deal with. More and growing companies are the foundation of our prosperity. More people going to work is crucial for more people to feel freedom and empowerment. But that is also the basis of our common prosperity. It is therefore alarming that the government is now proposing historically high tax increases. It becomes less profitable to work, to train and to take responsibility at work. It will be more expensive to hire young people and older people. The ROT deduction and the RUT deduction are deteriorating. Industries are now suffering from pyspunk, and this has an effect on the authorities for which we in the committee are responsible. From the Liberals' side, we choose another road for Sweden. We reject the historically high tax increases, we reject the large increases in expenditure that occur in the budget and we choose a different direction for Sweden where it pays to work, to train and to take responsibility at work. We believe that it is important to increase the momentum for working and to expand the sectors that have emerged in recent years because we have stimulated them with the tax tool. I am thinking of the ROT sector and the RUT sector. Now we see that there is an overwhelming risk of a black market emerging, which will have a major impact on the Swedish Tax Agency's operations. Mr President, I would like to At the same time, it is important that people learn more about the tax system and how much they pay in tax. It is crucial for people to be able to make reasonable choices in their lives about how much to work or not to work. We therefore propose from the Alliance that the Swedish Tax Agency should be given a special mandate to inform the public about the impact of the job tax deduction on the total taxation of labour income. The authorities that we are dealing with in today's chamber debate – the Swedish Tax Agency, the Swedish Enforcement Authority and the Swedish Customs Authority – have a central role in Swedish society. The authorities should make it easier for citizens and businesses to do their own thing. People and businesses who come into contact with these authorities should be treated with confidence and trust in the legal certainty of the regulatory systems. This is what creates legitimacy and trust in the Swedish system. It is also a matter of ensuring that competition is conducted on equal terms and of combating fraud in various sectors. It is also important that the rules are perceived as reasonable and that they do not lead to unnecessary bureaucracy. That is the basis for people to have confidence in the tax system. Stable rules of the game and laws that ensure competition on equal terms are crucial for the economic development of our country. Mr President, I would like to There are times in life when you have financial scarcity that causes you to incur debts. The enforcement authority has an important role to play in preventing over-indebtedness and also in addressing people in a reasonable manner, so that debt restructuring can take place when justified and that people can get rid of the debt they have placed themselves in as quickly as possible. Mr President, I would like to The same applies to organised crime and its work against it. There, the Finnish Customs, together with other organisations, have an important role to play. In order to be able to live up to being a society of justice, it is essential to fight back against organised crime. The Liberals therefore believe that the Internal Borders Act should be broadened so that the Customs Administration is given the same powers to intervene against flammable or explosive goods as it currently has against weapons. The authorities we have to deal with in this House are important for the Swedish legal society. It is important that individuals and companies have confidence in what the authorities do. But it is also about the rules and taxes we decide on in this House. The fact that we are now entering a situation of historically high tax increases also means that these authorities will have a new role, another role. We will see increased undeclared work, that the state does not get the tax revenue that the government has planned and that some of the industries that have emerged will stop in their development, which I find deeply unfortunate.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-491	Mr President, I would like to As citizens, we assume that the State will take care of the tasks it is required to carry out, such as ensuring national security and ensuring that schools, childcare and care are functioning and of the highest quality. We also assume that when we get older we will receive a pension that is viable. We Christian Democrats are in favour of a well-functioning, jointly funded welfare, in which the individual is given more opportunity to make his or her own choices. But to make this work, we need an economy that breathes order, an economy that is in balance. A key element in maintaining a balanced economy is maintaining tax morality, combating tax evasion and ensuring that illegal goods do not enter the country and, for that matter, that smuggling does not endanger health or eliminate the balance of the market. Our various authorities and we as elected representatives have a responsibility to use the tax tool as carefully as possible. The taxes we decide on must be perceived as reasonable and easy to understand the purpose of. I am thinking, for example, of having lower taxes on what promotes the state, that is, on jobs and services. Some have been involved in the RUT deduction, for which I, too, am a little concerned about the future. After all, I believe that there is an opportunity to develop RUT and that we can have confidence in working together with it. This presupposes that we have higher taxes on what we do not want in society. I am thinking of the environmental impact that we do not want. This means that we need to have fairly high taxes in order for it not to take root and for us to have an environment that we can leave behind for our children. I do not even want to think about the fact that the state as a whole would fail in the task of maintaining tax standards and getting the taxes that we need for the overall welfare. The consequences of this are something we all want to avoid. Much of this is handled by the authorities we are talking about today: the Swedish Tax Agency, the Swedish Enforcement Authority and the Swedish Customs Agency. Citizens and businesses can come into contact with these authorities for preventive purposes, but also in specific cases. Then we expect to be treated correctly and that the cases are handled professionally and in the same way as all similar cases. The fact that these authorities enjoy high confidence and that confidence has increased in recent years is, I think, a good thing. The work to simplify procedures and to work preventively is something important for the future that we see that these authorities have done. We are pleased that this work has gone so well that citizens' confidence has increased. The Swedish Tax Agency, the Swedish Enforcement Authority and the Swedish Customs Agency are three important authorities for Sweden as a nation and in order to achieve good tax standards, combat tax evasion and combat the black economy. Companies too face these three authorities, and I believe that companies also have confidence in them. It should be easy to conduct international trade. The Finnish Customs has a central role in ensuring that it is both simple and smooth. The Customs Agency is also an authority that we have great hopes for in the fight against organised crime, drugs and more. The Customs Agency, I mean, is the single most important authority to ensure that serious crime does not bring drugs or illegal weapons into Sweden. The enforcement authority has an important and perhaps increasingly important role in our society when, as citizens, we over-indebted ourselves and cannot get ourselves out of that mess. The number of applications for unpaid debts, known as orders for payment, to the enforcement officer is over 1 million per year. This leads individuals and families to suffering, which in many cases can be avoided with preventive work. The bailiffs have to counter over-indebtedness, and we Christian Democrats believe that this work needs to be intensified even more. People who are stuck in over-indebtedness for various reasons must be given a reasonable chance to take responsibility for their finances and restart. At the same time, as a society, we must take responsibility and combat over-indebtedness as far as possible. As regards the Swedish Enforcement Authority, the Government argues that the work to counter over-indebtedness is a priority, and in this proposal the Government has proposed a comprehensive strategy for the area. In their proposal, the Christian Democrats propose that the Swedish Kronofogdemyndigheten be added another SEK 20 million for the work to counter over-indebtedness. This work should take the form, for example, of enhanced prevention and should aim to avoid lengthy processing times. With this, we look forward to continuing to work together to ensure that these authorities receive the support and input they need to perform their tasks in the best way for the best interests of Sweden.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-509	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by calling for approval of the proposal in the report, which deals with appropriations for the three authorities which the Committee on Tax Affairs is dealing with: the Swedish Enforcement Authority, the Swedish Customs Agency and the Swedish Tax Agency. Several have looked at the more international outlook. There is another reflection about our authorities in relation to the international arena that one might do sometimes: how grateful we should be that we have authorities that work as well as they do. When these three authorities act as they do in Sweden and strengthen democracy and the decisions of elected representatives, it is of course a huge advantage. But we noticed in the wake of the financial crisis how bad it is when they don't work. If we are to go further, there are authoritarian countries where these authorities are rather used for repressive purposes. It may be helpful to consider at times what we have to care for and what we need to be careful about. This budget proposes a great deal of effort. One is linked to the strategy against over-indebtedness that we have adopted. This means that in order to be able to work better with debt restructuring, the enforcement officer will receive an increased addition of 10 million next year and 15 million in 2018. In addition, there are proposals for debt restructuring for entrepreneurs, an issue that has been discussed for a long time. In order to be able to take on and work with this, the enforcement officer receives another 10 million. In this is much of our idea of a chance to come back. Both society and the individual benefit from having many chances and opportunities to come back. As far as Customs is concerned, there is a major change. The Customs Agency will receive 34 million extra to prepare for the European Customs Act. With regard to the Tax Agency, Mr President, it is quite clear that it has succeeded in becoming a popular authority. What we criticised in opposition, and which we are now following up, was that it was not satisfactory that the Tax Agency could not answer how the tax error changed. Therefore, there is now a clarification in the regulations to the Swedish Tax Agency, which means that more random checks and audits must be made, so that we can compare how the tax error really develops, not based on Sifo surveys but on a proper selection. We believe that more needs to be done to prosecute tax evasion. We have already proposed a wide range of measures, and some have already been decided in this House. It's about human resources, monthly reports and more. It is of course important for income to the state, but at least as important is it to have competition neutrality between companies and that the conditions for employees in the companies are reasonable and correct. It is gratifying that a few weeks ago in this House we were able to decide on a rather historic international cooperation against tax evasion, which will allow us to exchange information on assets and other things with a wide range of countries. It is important that we can take advantage of and follow up the data and ensure that the taxes to be paid will be paid. That is why next year the Swedish Tax Agency will receive 10 million in increased funding, which will then be built up to 25 million, to work with these international contacts. But it is not just the authorities themselves, but at least as much authorities in collaboration that can do great things. The work against serious organised crime – it is pointed out in the bill that the authorities together must work more towards the large introduction of illegal alcohol – we welcome. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the government has also appointed an investigator on the leakage of our welfare and social systems, which in many areas will affect these three authorities, so that we can ensure that our tax money is spent on what it is supposed to be. Finally, Mr President, I would like to reassure Niklas Wykman, who is concerned that the government, together with the Left Party, is taking away a great deal of the inefficient tax reductions and is making some tax increases, especially for high-income earners. I do not think that there is a great risk of tax targets, seen in the light of what will actually happen when housing production starts, when the unemployed get a chance of training and when the pensioners with the lowest pension will no longer pay higher taxes than employees with the same income. In fact, I believe that the vast majority of people in our country will find it just and proper.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-521	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Leif Jakobsson, for clarifying the government's position! I stopped a little at what Leif Jakobsson said at the end, that one is not worried about a deterioration in tax standards. The reality, Leif Jakobsson, when the Alliance took office in 2006 was that confidence in the tax system was significantly lower than it is now. Almost twice as many people, to put it bluntly, disliked the tax system. The IRS was also less popular. Like Leif Jakobsson, to think that you can increase taxes almost as much as possible without affecting people's desire to actually pay them is far beyond the experience here in Sweden but also in other countries in the area. The higher the taxes, the harder it gets to get them in, the more people try to trip around them. Mr President, I would like to It goes without saying that we should be able to collect the taxes that we decide in this House. Tax morale must be high, and the Tax Agency may act accordingly. However, the government is pursuing very popular tax reforms, such as the RUT deduction, which has led to a significant increase in gender equality in society. For the first time, a majority of Sweden's women are working full-time, and the pay gap between men and women, which for a long time had been completely stagnant, shrunk during the time of the alliance government. When you go after that type of reform, Leif Jakobsson, there is of course less confidence in the system, and it worries. That is why, Mr President, we on behalf of the Alliance are concerned about whether these appropriations are enough when the mission is becoming so much more difficult.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-526	Mr President, I would like to It's about how to use the money. And I would say that the eight years, or indeed nine years in budgetary terms, have actually brought an awakening to the Swedish people. Perhaps many believed that taxes could be drastically reduced without consequences. Pretty soon the unemployed and the sick discovered that there were consequences, as well as those who needed adult education. Society must be active in creating jobs, not only creating incentives for people to get in line with the Employment Service, but ensuring that there is a business policy that works for our future jobs. On this point, I think I can put an end to Niklas Wykman's concern. We do not have a good answer to the question of, for example, the development of the tax error. We do not have a proper evaluation of whether these ROT and RUT deductions in themselves have meant that undeclared work has disappeared. Nevertheless, I must say, of course, that our position on the ROT is the same as it has always been, that it is a way of bridging construction conjunctures. It is not a way of subsidising sectors with a lot of undeclared work.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-528	Mr President, I would like to Leif Jakobsson speaks of the awakening of the Swedish people when it comes to the tax system, as if the Swedish people were now more strongly in favour of the high-tax society advocated by Leif Jakobsson, his party and colleagues. But the fact remains, Leif Jakobsson, that not a single percentage point more of the Swedish people voted for you in the 2014 elections than in 2010. So if this were a wake-up call for a new giant tax society, as advocated by the Social Democrats, it was not noticed in the election results, given that you did not get more votes than in the 2010 elections as a percentage. Mr President, I would like to The jobs grew sharply during the time of the alliance government and increased to 350,000 more. What Leif Jakobsson describes as serious reductions corrected serious errors in Swedish society. For example, one in ten persons in the labour force were retired early in 2006. One in five persons was full - time dependent on contributions for their livelihood. These figures changed sharply during the time of the alliance government. We saw how many more people got jobs, that the employment rate was the highest in the European Union. The policy we pursued, which made it more profitable to work, was very useful. To conclude, Mr President, this is the last debate of the Committee on Taxation before Christmas, and Leif Jakobsson says: we do not have a good answer to this question. I would like to say that this applies generally to the government in terms of how Sweden should be led forward towards increased growth, more jobs and increased employment. But I hope for a nice Christmas break for Leif Jakobsson and the entire government base and that you can come up with more proposals for more jobs for the future.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-531	Mr President, I would like to It must be rather depressing for Niklas Wykman who describes such a fantastic policy but who the voters so failed that there was a change of government. When I hear this description, I'm thinking about one thing, and that's the Alliance's tax policy. After all, we have not seen much of a coordinated one. What we have seen today is a joint motion that talks about the Swedish Tax Agency being given the task of informing the Swedish people about the amazing effects of the job tax deduction. It is clear that after these nine years you wonder: What is the Swedish people have not understood, and where has the token not fallen down? It is at least as much a lower grade to politics when you say: We had a theory that would put the Swedish people to work. As a result, unemployment rose, youth unemployment rose and long-term unemployment rose. When you end up in opposition, all parties come to different views about taxes. The Moderates are the only ones who persist in more job tax deductions. But it is at least possible to agree to turn the Tax Agency into some kind of propaganda institution for the excellence of the job tax credit. It doesn't impress much. Nevertheless, I say Merry Christmas, Niklas Wykman and others!
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-536	Mr President, I would like to We debate category 3 and allocate approximately 10.8 billion to the Swedish Tax Agency, the Swedish Customs Agency and the Swedish Kronofogdemyndigheten. There are three authorities that have important tasks. They shall verify compliance with rules on the flows of goods and that debts in both individual and general objectives are shared by the lender. It is also, of course, a question of collecting tax revenue to finance welfare and other public expenditure. These are important things for maintaining tax standards, for confidence in contract law and for complying with laws and regulations that we have in the country. One work for which these authorities are responsible in various ways is the work against serious organised crime. Serious organised crime is a major threat to our society in several ways. It can catch young people on a glide and lead them on a criminal path. It destroys individual lives but even more others in the environment, which also leads to large socio-economic costs. Countering this is therefore a very priority task. Apart from the fact that these three authorities have to work on this, it is of course also a police task. However, in order to achieve success in such work, cross-border work needs to continue to be developed, including in collaboration with municipal authorities. It is positive that the government considers that the authorities have good objectives and contribute to meeting the objectives that exist for the expenditure area. The high level of trust among citizens and businesses is also important and a prerequisite for a society with a large public sector to function properly. It is good that there is a focus on efforts to simplify the regulatory framework and prevent errors, so that it is right from the start, with all these authorities. While much works well, there are things that need to be improved, of course. Among other things, the evidence shows that the Swedish Tax Agency has improved equal treatment but that there are still differences in how men and women are treated. Of course, that must not be the case. It is good that the Swedish Tax Agency is working to change that. I hope that the measures that have been taken will make us, as citizens, feel confident that everyone will have the same service, regardless of gender and other grounds for discrimination. There are several important measures presented in the field of expenditure. What I would like to highlight in particular is what is now happening to combat over-indebtedness. The enforcement authority receives a special grant, a reinforcement, for this work. The government has also developed a strategy. There are currently 3,000 more over-indebted than five years ago, according to the Swedish National Audit Office. A total of 400,000 are in the register of the enforcement authority, and they have a total debt of SEK 70 billion. In all individual cases, of course, people's ability to create the lives they want is limited. This restricts freedom for people and, above all, of course, for those children who grow up in economically very vulnerable environments. It is therefore important that more people can be granted debt restructuring. Another important measure is that the budget and debt counselling that the municipalities are responsible for can be better managed than is currently the case. This is also something that the Swedish National Audit Office has pointed out. These things are also part of the strategy developed by the government. With this, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-545	Mr President, I would like to The aim of the whole expenditure area is to ensure the financing of the public sector, to contribute to the proper functioning of society for citizens and business, and to combat crime. The main objective of tax policy is to finance the common welfare, various social functions and other public expenditure and, in addition, to create the conditions for sustainable growth, high employment and fair distribution of wealth. That is the objective that exists for this area. It is a little interesting that according to research, just increased gaps are a basis for increased crime – these are two objectives that we have in the same area. In the area of taxation, we have a real opportunity to prevent long-term crime reduction in society. Here we have a lot to do, because the gaps have increased. And it's the increased gaps that just contribute to increased crime and a lot of other unhealthy conditions in society. Today we see increased gaps while welfare is on its knees. We would need to increase the margins considerably in welfare, as in many businesses there are no margins left at all. We have given priority to reducing taxes and making greater profits from welfare, rather than getting citizens to them in the situation where citizens are at their most vulnerable and need the resources most. The system that we have had in recent years has created enormous vulnerability among the most vulnerable, those that are completely dependent on welfare. That's where we stand today. That's as far as it's gone. The report points out that the opening-up of borders and an increasingly globalised economy mean that there is an increased need to protect the Swedish tax base and ensure the effective use of automatic exchange of information. It is a very good entrance and something that is really needed at a time when the free movement of capital has actually, I would say, gone beyond rhyme and reason. This has led to a huge problem, not least in the labour market, where today we have working conditions that we have not seen in Sweden for a very long time. Many workplaces are very tough and very far from the safe working environment we have been proud of in Sweden. In recent years, it has been the market and employers that have set all borders or rather crossed all borders. We see how our young people are being exploited in the labour market in terrible ways. They'll be called a few times a week if they're lucky. How are you supposed to live off that? The idea has long been to open up all ways to capital and promote the market and that a few should be able to make big money. It's gone too far. The pendulum has gone too far. We need all the parts. We need a market. We need welfare. But I think we can all, if we think about it, see that the pendulum has gone too far. It is even now that institutions such as the OECD and the World Bank are warning that the gaps are so large that they are not good for the economy. It is time to tackle the situation and start protecting citizens and our future environment from the greed that has spread with the era of liberalisation. It is this vulnerability that the free, liberalised market has led to and that causes us not to build society based on people's needs but on market needs. This hard time and the uncertainty in which many people live, especially young people, have made it easier for immigrant young people who see no future to be recruited into terrorist organisations. At the same time, we see how racism is spreading in Sweden. This is because of people's insecurity. You can see how society is becoming increasingly polarized and violent, just as health scientists Wilkinson and Pickett point out: As the gaps increase, conflicts in society also increase, and there are more violent conflicts. That is exactly what we are seeing today, and we must do something about that. We can do it! It is time to take control of greed again and have a well-thought-out balancing of companies, a regulation that develops society in a healthy way, which builds a healthy economy. It is important precisely when we are at our most vulnerable in life, when we are children and old and sick, that we have our welfare and can afford it. All means are needed for our common well-being, and it is important that we do not drain it. That is why this measure is good, but we need many more measures, and we need to review the tax system so that we have robust welfare in the future. Now I want to go in a little bit on the taxi business. I'm on the Transport Committee as the main committee. Taxi companies will be obliged to transfer taximeter data to accounting centres from 1 January 2016. This will regulate the taxi market, and I would also like to go into a system error that we have had here too. It is clear that liberalisation has also been the problem in the taxi industry. Everyone admits that. You can talk to every taxi driver you ride with – you will hear stories about how liberalisation has worked in their industry. Here, too, the pendulum has gone too far in that direction. I am not saying that we need to have total regulation, but we need to have a balance based on man and not a profit draw that will not even work in the long run because the workers do not feel well. I am therefore very pleased about this step to get to grips with the market a little better, and we work in the Transport Committee to take further steps to regulate the taxi industry. I would now like to turn to the Kronofigdemyndigheten. It is very good that we are now spending money to counteract over-indebtedness. It's a very priority. There is a need for increased support for debt restructuring, and I would like to refer once again to the system error that I mention very clearly in my speech. Here, too, the market has been released so freely that there are very many young people today who are in very deep debt. It is easy to take SMS loans, you become easily tied into various subscriptions and so on. The market uses uglier and uglier methods to sell, while we live in a time when the gaps are so large that young people are dependent on consuming to keep up. This is also something that research shows that when gaps increase, status consumption increases. In addition to the money for the judicial authorities, we need to look at how we can make companies operate in a healthier way and stop using practices that actually expose people to such large debts. It has been reported in documentaries on television how people have ended up there almost without acting on their own. They have been locked up in different ways, because they are so ugly methods used to lock up customers. This really needs to be reviewed even in a wider context, but this measure is a good one. There is a great deal to do in the field of taxation. It is about our environment as well as people and building a society that puts the resources where they are needed – not in a few pockets, but where they are really needed. That's how we build a strong economy. Perhaps it is not by chance that many red governments have given up a better economy than blue governments. A fairer distribution strengthens the whole economy. This is now even highlighted by the World Bank and the OECD in view of the strongly growing gaps in recent years around the world. This is very important that all parties think a little deeper about. How do we want to build our future and a robust economy based on human needs? I would also like to make this point briefly with the tax offices. We in the Left Party are very pleased that we have received a letter of intent to strive to keep the local tax offices. We would like to see even clearer work done on this in the future, and we will be in favour of it.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-565	Mr President, I would like to It was an exciting speech, may I say. Emma Wallrup talks about the divides in society. I share the view that there are gaps in society. There's a lot we can do about it. In the area of the Committee on Taxation, there are many things that can be discussed. However, what I would like to say is that I think the biggest gaps in society are between those who do not have jobs and those who do. This means that our work should be about ensuring that people get into work and somehow have an employment that allows them to also pay and create their own lives. From Emma Wallrup's speech, I take the view that the way to narrow the gap is to regulate businesses as much as possible. But then I think the gaps are increasing instead. I think that people's insecurity in much is because you don't have a job that you can go to and earn money that makes you feel secure economically and also socially.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-569	Mr President, I would like to I do not agree with that statement of reality, even more so because we are living in a globalised world. You on the right hand side often threaten companies to flee if we put in strong regulations and so on. I suspect that if we have sound regulations, we will keep the sensible companies in the end. But since this escape opportunity exists, it is precisely welfare we should invest in – jobs that cannot be moved. Here we have the opportunity to work according to Keyne model and invest in and expand welfare. Then we have stable jobs that cannot move, and that in turn creates other service jobs around us. There will be rings on the water, so to speak. I think that's a very safe way. There we politicians can count on how many jobs we create just by putting it in the budget, so that's a very simple way. Then I would also like to argue for infrastructure investments throughout the country that strengthen the country and not only be oriented around Stockholm but create jobs throughout the country by thinking a little more comprehensively. Similarly, freight transport can also be strengthened, which has been forgotten a great deal. This creates jobs. It is also a question of building a lot of new, new housing, which we are also in the process of entering into the budget that we are putting forward from now on. Of course, you should also invest in climate change and benefit the industry as much as possible. We can also create many domestic jobs there, because we have biofuels and long coastlines where we can build a lot of wind power. Solar energy also works well in Sweden and so on. So there is a wide range of measures that you can take if you invest, and it is vital that we do so now that we get many new people to Sweden. It's so in all economic theory that it's population growth that drives an increased bnp, an increased growth. Then it is a matter of getting these people into society, so if we now invest and really invest a lot in what we still need, we can create both jobs and the economy.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-576	Mr President, I would like to It is true that Emma Wallrup and I differ widely on the reality of the situation. I think it is companies and people who want to invest their money in new businesses that create jobs. It is clear that we as politicians can sometimes create jobs through investment, but in the long run it is always the companies that create the jobs. Then it is a matter of ensuring that companies have good conditions so that they can thrive and develop. We must invest in research and development so that new companies can be created. It is also about having such tax systems that make companies actually want to invest their money within Sweden's borders. In an international world, it is not just municipalities that are fighting against each other, but countries that are fighting each other to get investment money. I believe that if we ensure that companies can thrive and that taxes on labour are reduced, companies have the opportunity to create more jobs, more jobs, and people can feel more secure. At that point, we can invest more in welfare. Emma Wallrup wants to do the opposite, namely invest in welfare first and believe that companies survive. I want to invest in the companies first so that the welfare can survive.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-581	Mr President, I would like to The problem is that since Sweden joined the EU, neoliberal ideology has done everything to make the roads straight for businesses. You have removed barriers to trade in order to increase profit, and then it has become the huge divides. You have put businesses first, and it goes out over the labour market, the environment and so on. It's not working anymore. That is very clear. In almost all sectors of the Committee on Transport's area, it is chaotic because it is such a poor working environment. We can't do this anymore. We need to reconsider. We need to promote the right companies. With the help of tough rules and the right form of taxation, we can help promote the good companies. Preem asked us at a panel debate in Almedalen if we wanted to put up tougher environmental laws because it benefits them. It is the petrol company that has been primarily involved in the conversion work and which has the most obvious conversion plan. We on the red side could easily say that we want to set tougher rules. The blue side even wavered toward Preem. It is a business interest, and you represent employers in essence. But the blue side couldn't say that straight up and down. That's the problem. We need to set rules and introduce taxes at such levels as to help the good companies. There should not be companies that pollute our environment. In addition, companies also need welfare and infrastructure. The Transport Council of the business community is very clear that it wants a functioning railway. The Council has courted the Transport Committee, and all major Swedish companies are members of the organisation. It is strange that neither a red nor a blue government has previously raised the issue of railway maintenance more clearly. Let's start doing it. This is something that companies really are asking for. Such investments are taking place. They also need welfare.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-587	Mr President, I would like to My colleague has already explained how the Swedish Democrats think in this area of expenditure. That's why I won't touch that part. I am going to talk about an unfortunate development in society that we must pay attention to, namely the over-indebtedness of individuals. In Sweden it is considered shameful not to have a good economy, and even worse is having excessive debts. Often they are ashamed and try to hide this from their surroundings. Worse still, when you ask for help when it is too late and the damage is almost irreparable. But you don't always get in debt because you've acted irresponsibly and taken advantage of the good of life without having worked and earned it. Indebtedness is all the more frequent today if you have had bad luck, become unemployed, become ill or as an entrepreneur have not been paid for your invoices and so on. An estimate has been made of the size of the problem, with the number of over-indebted persons estimated at 28,000. The cost of healthcare and production losses is estimated at 6 billion. This is added to the costs of the social security system and unemployment insurance of just over SEK 2 billion, according to the Swedish National Audit Office's calculations. Society's efforts amount to SEK 236 million. As a result, costs far exceed the costs to deal with the problem. It is important that more severely indebted people apply for and undergo debt restructuring. The government should ensure that the debt restructuring activities of the Swedish Enforcement Authority have the capacity to cope with the increasing case inflow without extending the waiting periods. In addition, the Enforcement Authority should be supported in identifying and informing potential debtors of the possibility of deleveraging. But before you get as far as Kronofogdemyndigheten, many have become acquainted with debt collection companies, about which I wanted to express some thoughts. Mr President, I would like to Swedish legislation enables debt collection companies to make billions of profits at the expense of those already in debt. Owning such a company is like a gold mine. Profitability is higher than in the rest of the financial sector. By pooling debt collection operations with other financial services, the companies cut out the excess profits while making critical review of the business difficult. The companies are not alone in wanting to put the lid on. Even the authority that regulates the industry avoids answering questions about how large profits companies with debt collection permits have. High fees, interest on interest, make it difficult, in many cases impossible, for the debtor to manage to pay off the original capital debt. The legislation and the strict collection rules in Sweden have meant that debt collection companies have earned a lot of money from private individuals. It is on economically weak people that the money is earned. They're the ones who pay the high interest rates. Requirements management is gold lined for the debt collection companies. The more cases at the Swedish Enforcement Authority, the more customers' debts increase. When the matter goes on to Kronofogdemyndigheten, the network companies usually add around 800 SEK in fees. That's what the debtor will pay. It's not a cost to the debt collection companies. At the same time, it is not the debt collection companies that pay the large costs of the Swedish Enforcement Authority's recovery work. The enforcement authority is financed by taxpayers and various fees paid by the debtors. That brings me to my message and proposal. The Swedish Enforcement Authority enjoys great trust in society and works under tough legislation and without profit. We should talk about and discuss the possibility that all debt restructuring in society should be managed by the authority and thus eliminate rogue, money-hungry actors who are not anxious about people becoming debt-free. On the contrary! The more people in debt, the better for them. Instead of the excess profits of debt collection companies, we should in the long term increase the funds allocated to the Swedish Enforcement Authority in order to make this possible. Of course, we should invest a great deal of resources in the municipal budget and debt counselling in order to prevent indebtedness. Mr President, I would like to Another phenomenon in society is that more and more people become addicted to gambling and receive gambling debts. It has become much easier to play. You can get instant reward when you play, but usually you lose and lack money to continue playing. But there is a solution! 500 small loan companies offer credit. However, gambling on credit is prohibited in Sweden. Despite that, Swedish gaming companies run games on credit together with small loan companies. The gaming companies avoid the Swedish legislation by going to bed abroad and starting online casinos. These companies are registered abroad to escape control but benefit from the debt recovery by the Swedish Enforcement Authority. Although we know the phenomenon, we allow rogue actors to destroy people's lives. More imagination and action are required of us in order to regulate these deviations. The most distasteful and abominable of all forms of fraud is the sending of fraud invoices to companies and the enforcement of the fictitious debt by the Swedish Enforcement Authority. Swedish Commerce has paid attention to the problem and worked with various registers to help vulnerable companies. But fake invoices are still a big problem. An investigation into measures against invoice fraud has now been completed and reported to the Ministry of Justice. The investigation concludes that the number of invoice frauds is high. The legislation, in particular the contract law, is sufficient to protect those affected, it says. However, it is appropriate to provide for the payment of costs to the party bringing the unnecessary action. In addition, there is a need for increased information and, preferably, a precedent to clarify the evidence requirements. Swedish Commerce has advocated criminalising the phenomenon of sending invoices without performance. We should take this step as soon as possible to put an end once and for all to this misery, which has cost businesses so much money and which has caused sleepless nights and anxiety instead of working with and developing the company. Let us, as elected representatives and responsible for the Swedish Kronofogdemyndigheten's operations and regulation, work a little faster and more efficiently once we have identified the problems and come up with effective measures! The obvious thing that weak and vulnerable people can expect from their elected representatives is a legitimate protection of their lives and property. (Andre VICE TALMANN: I would like to remind you once again of the agreement reached by the President with the group leaders on six-minute speeches. )
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-604	Mr President, I would like to It is a bit difficult for those of us who are listening to hear the difference between the economic analyses of the Swedish Democrats and the Left Party that they are presented from the pulpit. It is a question of Marxism rendered in modern fashion that would probably give the Karl inferiority complex itself. There is not a single error in companies that you cannot attack them in full and hard force. The type of very sharp left rhetoric that Anna Hagwall uses does not benefit Sweden. It does not benefit jobs, jobs or growth. However, my question to Anna Hagwall is: how is this to be financed? We are already living in times when the expenditure ceilings are very heavy, as we are far from balance and even further away from budgetary surpluses. It presents a new great public commitment to one of the authorities for which we are jointly responsible in the committee. How much will this cost, and where will the money come from?
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-606	Mr President, I would like to Now I have 40 years of work experience. That is more than many others in this room and at all many who work in politics have. Of these 40 years, I have been self-employed for 20 years. This problem is very big for many actors, both entrepreneurs and private individuals. That is what I intend to speak for them in this House. This group of people has almost no rights. No one is able to speak for them, and they themselves are unable to do so because they are busy with their businesses and all the duties that they are required to fulfil. I have put this idea in this House. It is not that I strictly demand anything, but I have just proposed to the members of the Tax Committee that we discuss, address the topic of conversation and try to solve this problem, which many people have in society. That's what I'm talking about here.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-609	Mr President, I would like to A fundamental difference between politics on the one hand and populism on the other is that politics can present a social problem, present a solution and explain to people how it should work and how it should be financed, while populism can indeed see a social problem and can certainly also present a solution, but does not need to take any form of responsibility for how the solution should work or how it should be financed. That is where we are, Mr President, listening to the proposals of the Swedish Democrats. It's fair promises, but it's silly content. It has not been presented how to pay. You represent no one's interests when you make promises that you don't tell how to pay for. On the contrary, the interests of all people and the whole public interest are being betrayed, because the policy we are deciding on here should be possible to implement in reality. There's supposed to be money for it. Otherwise, it'll just be empty words. But, Mr President, I would like to give Anna Hagwall the empathy and sympathy she expresses for people in need. I wish Anna Hagwall and her whole party could take it to heart, too, when it comes to people from other countries.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-612	Mr President, I would like to If you mention people's real problems, you'd be happy to stamp it on Niklas Wykman. All right, call me that! But in this House we should have some visions too and not just read out our speeches and come up with a lot of flossels and jaded thoughts. I think we need to shift the focus a little further along in our own visions and present them both to those who look at us and to each other in this House. Hopefully people get some ideas from what some Members say, and perhaps the ideas make you act and that it ultimately results from the action. For my part, it was a vision I presented. I think it is a huge problem that people are over-indebted and do not get out of it. Perhaps Niklas does not understand how much sleepless nights, anxiety and even diseases that over-indebtedness causes in society.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-614	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by referring to the specific opinion we have in paragraph 1. With banquets, awards and solemn speeches, we have recently celebrated and hailed Nobel laureates, who have made mankind the most useful in various sciences. The Nobel festivities remind us that knowledge, innovation and review of old truths begin with a school that gives all children and students the right conditions for growth and success. For us Moderates, it is obvious that Sweden should be a country that is built with and competes with knowledge. It is more knowledge and a well-trained labour force that makes Sweden grow. For the individual, education and knowledge mean a way to work, security and community. It is therefore worrying that we have lost for a long time in what is the basis of all other knowledge learning, namely reading, writing and counting. In the election movement, the answer from the Social Democrats and the Green Party was that it was the Alliance that had cut down on the school. Fortunately, however, we know that this is not true. On the contrary, the OECD confirmed the other week that Sweden was one of the countries that invested the most in school during the worst days of the financial crisis, when other countries cut down in various areas of welfare, so also within school. This did not happen in Sweden. No, the falling knowledge results are rather due to a previous inability to reverse development and a failure to focus on what is really important in school: students' learning and knowledge development. Mr President, I would like to Therefore, with the aim of raising students' learning outcomes, the Moderates and the Alliance carried out historical reforms in the Swedish school – new school teams, new curricula and career services for teachers, to name a few. At the same time, we can state that some of the reforms did not turn out as we intended. Therefore, like the Swedish National Audit Office, we see that, among other things, the state grant solutions did not always work in the way that was desirable. The money has not always reached the schools and municipalities that needed the resources most. Now, instead, we want to clarify the Swedish School Inspectorate's reviews so that they focus even more on the students' results and the quality of teaching. The reviews shall form the basis for a tailor-made and nationally funded knowledge contract between the National Agency for Education and the school in question. It gives us better opportunities to target state resources to those schools whose results are weak and not to those which are already functioning well. Mr President, I would like to More needs to be done to reverse school developments. The Moderates have placed great emphasis on strengthening the knowledge focus in school. We want to continue to develop preschool so that all preschools can become good preschools and give all children a good start on their knowledge journey. Among other things, we want to look at how the system of career services, in which particularly skilled teachers receive a salary increase of SEK 5 000 per month, can also include pre-colleagues. Experience and skills must be visible in the pay envelope. We also want to create a more pre-school adapted vice-chancellor training and make sure that the handover between preschool and preschool class is better and more equal. Mr President, I would like to A clear conclusion from the Nobel festivities is that the winners come from countries that in most cases have a previous school start and more teaching time in mathematics, among other things. Therefore, I find it worrying that the government does not want to do primary school ten years or increase teaching time in mathematics and sport. My question is why the government is in the conscious way opposed to reforms that will give our six-year-olds and secondary students better support and help to learn to read, write and count. Mr President, I would like to Throughout Skolsverige, historic efforts are currently underway to help the 45 000 newly arrived children who have so far come to Sweden to enter the Swedish school. Unfortunately, however, we see that both the teachers and the tools are too few. Thanks to the preparatory work of the alliance government, which the government is now doing well, new tools are rolling out in 2016 that will facilitate and streamline the basic mapping work. It is an important part of giving more children and students a good start in school. At the same time, I think that all of us in this House realise that it is not enough. I am therefore pleased that we have been able to find a broad and cross-block consensus on most crucial issues that will facilitate the schooling of newly arrived children in Sweden. It's a very good start. Mr President, I would like to If we are to succeed all the way to goal, we need more. We have therefore presented today some necessary proposals which we believe are needed to strengthen the conditions for new arrivals. Firstly, today the transition from the preparation class to the ordinary class is not formalised, and the transitions take place arbitrarily. We suggest that the Swedish National Agency for Education should develop a basis for what knowledge goals a student should achieve in order to move on to an ordinary class. Secondly, no student should be passed on from class to class and to a level that he or she cannot handle. Therefore, students' level of knowledge and achievement of goals must be given a greater focus when the students are going to move on. Thirdly, the Moderates want to change the school law and make it possible for a new upper secondary school programme that combines the content of the Language Introduction and Occupational Introduction programmes in order for newly arrived students to receive an education that leads to jobs more quickly. Fourthly, perhaps the most important thing: now we have to make it practical for schools to hire retired teachers. That is why we propose that we draw up a proposal for a temporary framework that allows schools to take advantage of the skills of retired teachers. Finally, I note that we are approaching Christmas. My single biggest concern is if I'm going to get home to my kids' graduation tomorrow night. That is a rather small concern in the overall context. We are a number more people in this country celebrating Christmas 2015 than it was in 2014. I hope that everyone will have a really merry Christmas in safety and safety. I would also like to wish that of my colleagues in this House. Merry Christmas to all of you!
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-633	Mr President, I would like to In spite of the lovely Christmas spirit, it is a matter of asking for a reply as chairman of the committee to the representatives of the largest opposition party. I would like to say that many of the proposals put forward by Camilla Grönvall are good. I would also like to say that if the consensus we have been able to see on the conditions for new arrivals to cope with schooling could spill over to the other school proposals, I would be rather positive about the committee's ability to contribute to the work of turning the knowledge results, getting the school more equal and attracting more people to the teaching profession. The reply concerns the speech by Camilla Grönvall, in particular the budgetary option presented by the Moderates. In the Moderates' budget exercise, we also strengthen the funding for our previous investment in more career positions in excluded areas by making twice as much funding available as before. As of 2016, the grant will increase from SEK 26 million to SEK 36 million in 2017, and thereafter there will be a further increase. I would like to ask how I can understand this. Have the Moderates and Camilla Waltersson Grönvall taken note of the Government's proposal of SEK 50 million for Collaboration for the best school and also a teacher's salary initiative that initially is 1 1⁄2 billion and then 3 billion? The proposal states that efforts on Collaboration for best schools include an investment in higher salaries for teachers in schools with difficult conditions. The cost of the investment in higher wages is proposed to be SEK 50 million for 2016 and SEK 50 million per year from 2017. In addition, a criterion for teacher wage initiatives, i.e. 11⁄2 billion in 2016 and then 3 billion on an annual basis, is that the teacher should have taken special responsibility for particularly complex teaching situations, such as low learning outcomes, large proportion of pupils who do not complete their studies and so on. How does Camilla Waltersson Grönvall view the government's proposal in relation to her own?
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-638	Mr President, I would like to As I said earlier, it is gratifying that we can find a number of areas where we have a consensus. I note that the policy pursued by the Alliance Government for eight years was not particularly motivated by the opposition at the time. Not many reforms supported by the opposition in those parts. Today, I see, thankfully, that these reforms are not being torn up, but are working on in the spirit that we once started, namely the continued focus on knowledge and continued efforts in a number of important areas. But there are also a number of differences. I see that the proposals put forward by the government are not entirely in line with ours. This applies, for example, to the investment we make in career services in the excluded areas. It is aimed at particularly skilled teachers. This is because, among other things, the OECD identifies Sweden as one of the countries that does not use their most skilled teachers in areas where the needs and challenges are greatest. Of course, I would have liked the government to have followed a model that clearly shows that we need a very skilled and competent profession in areas where our challenges are greatest. Therefore, my question to Lena Hallengren is why you do not choose such a model. It is clearly pointed out not only by the alliance parties but also by others. There is another series of measures that need to be taken. We need to look at teacher training and so on. There are many parts to this. As far as special education is concerned, I note that a former Social Democratic government discontinued our special education. Today, however, it is being invested in, and I am pleased that it has been found back to that resource and realises the importance of it.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-643	Mr President, I would like to Of course, we can go back 12 to 13 years, but if we stick to the budget to which the report relates and which we are now discussing, I would like to say that there is an investment of almost half a billion in special education, but that effort does not support the Moderates. One can consider why they do not, if there is a great need. I also note that higher salaries for teachers in schools with difficult conditions go to exactly what Camilla Waltersson Grönvall aims to do, namely to reward teachers who have tough challenges. Now I come to my last question, which could perhaps get an answer, unlike the other questions. Camilla Waltersson Grönvall talks about not tearing up reforms. I suppose one thought of this is that you should have long-termism in school and the rules of the game that everyone understands. Anna Kinberg Batra has today said that there should be no savings at school. Then I wonder how I can understand that the Moderates' budget in this area of expenditure is 3.2 billion lower. It may be universities of applied sciences, universities and higher education institutions, but it is actually also 3 billion less for teacher pay, for best schooling, special pedagogy, school environments, recreation centres and more. Does this mean that the Moderates will have no negative position in this area when we discuss the budget in this House next year?
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-646	Mr President, I would like to We are at a time when tough demands are being made on politics. We have difficult challenges to face. These challenges require tough decisions, robust reforms and difficult balances. We Moderates do not say that the situation in the country will not require re-priorities, but we tell them that we will not save the school. It is a promise and a message that we are giving today. We will take responsibility for Swedish school and for the reforms required for the school to develop in the right direction and for us to be able to meet the challenges that exist. Precisely what these solutions are, of course, we will return to, most recently under the budget that we will be working on. But the message here and now is that we absolutely will not save at Swedish school. The challenges we see in the country also require a government that is capable of action and has visions and ideas to meet these challenges. But with a policy that does not benefit job creation and therefore does not get more people into work, the big question – which Lena Hallengren unfortunately does not have the opportunity to answer right now – is how to meet all these challenges without getting more income.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-650	Mr President, I would like to I was going to pick up where Lena Hallengren left off and continue talking about the Moderates' draft budget. I would also like to add that the Left Party is looking forward to seeing for years to come draft budgets from the Moderates where no savings are made on the school budget. The Moderates say that you should not save the school in the future to meet the challenges. How is this reflected in the budget? I do not think that Lena Hallengren received a reply on this. I also have one more question and one comment I would like to make on behalf of Camilla Waltersson Grönvall. It's about the new arrivals. Many of us sitting in here can agree with just every word that Camilla Waltersson Grönvall said in her speech. But the problem today is not only that many newly arrived children come to our Swedish school. It is also about the fact that we have had a bourgeois government that has not made sure to build a system, despite the fact that for a number of years there have been more children who have come to the Swedish school. This is what has led to the situation we are in today, where panic measures need to be taken and all laws and regulations need to be reviewed in order to have a dignified reception for newly arrived children at school. What have the Moderates been doing in government for eight years to ensure that such a system is built up? Let me also return to the Christmas greeting and thank you for it by the Left Party and also wish Camilla Waltersson Grönvall a Merry Christmas. Now that the Moderates are involved in pushing the issue of temporary residence permits and border controls, however, I do not know whether this greeting from the Moderates should go out to all the people who will be affected by this policy.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-654	Mr President, I would like to Unlike Daniel Riazat, I belong to a party that is well-proven to take a great responsibility for Sweden's economy and continued well-being. We have proved this in a government position, and we continue to take responsibility also in opposition, unlike the Left Party, which is not the most committed to taking responsibility for financing its proposals. I'm not going to respond to the last thing Daniel Riazat said, because I think it's a little below his dignity. Unfortunately, with regard to the systems for meeting new arrivals, too many people have been caught on the bed. We had a former party leader who brought this up early and has talked about it for a long time. We Moderates have also been saying for a long time and from our present party leader that more must be done. That is why we are also very pleased with the agreements that have been reached, but we see that they are not enough. We also need to take another national responsibility. The municipalities have taken responsibility to a very varying degree. I have travelled a lot in the country in recent years and visited both social democratic, left-wing and moderate-led municipalities that have taken on a fantastic responsibility and found many solutions to a difficult challenge – this should not be seen as a problem but as a challenge. We need to ensure that these examples are now available nationally. That is one of the most important tasks.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-657	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mrs Grönvall for her reply. The question still remains. Both I and Lena Hallengren wondered how Anna Kinberg Batra's statement was reflected in the draft budget that you have presented and which you intend to vote in favour of. The second question concerns the newly arrived children and why the Moderates for many years in power did not build up a system so that at least to some extent we could have avoided today's panic attacks. Of course, we are in a situation where very many people come at the same time. Whether red-green or blue, there is a need to look at how to simplify and improve the system in order to achieve dignified reception and schooling. Immigration to Sweden, however, is nothing new. The arrival of newly arrived children at school is nothing new. The Moderates have been in power for eight years when there have been a great many children from other countries, many of whom are unaccompanied. Then the question is: how is it that we are now talking about having to invest more when we did not do it during our years in power? I think it was about you giving priority to tax cuts before welfare and school. I want an answer to the questions I have asked, because I believe that those who are watching the debate or will read it afterwards want an answer from the Moderates.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-660	Mr President, I would like to A colleague just spoke about things that were between 12 and 13 years ago. However, I think it is enough for Daniel Riazat to look at how the situation in Sweden and in Sweden's schools was a year and a half ago. It is not with a moderate government that people have been allowed to live in tent camps, on sidewalks or on the street. It is not an alliance government that has had to make those decisions. It is another government, and it is with that government that the responsibility lies. On the other hand, we are prepared to continue to contribute to finding solutions to the problems. However, the current emergency situation, which Daniel Riazat is talking about, has not arisen under an alliance government. This situation has arisen during a government led by Stefan Löfven. That's for him to ask. We gave priority to a policy that led to people getting into work. That link, however good the educators we have wanted to be, we have failed to get out to the Left Party members. It is important that more people get into work so that more people can contribute to our common well-being. What we are being forced on now is that we are seeing a policy being developed that will lead to fewer people getting into work and thus fewer who will be able to contribute to general welfare. It is our big problem how we can fund the welfare that also means that we need to invest in the school. Finally, when it comes to school, we will return most recently in the budget to how we take responsibility for the Swedish school, because we will do so.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-665	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by saying that we in the Swedish Democrats support our specific opinion on this issue. We've invested more money than the government in school. If I remember correctly, between the thumb and the index finger, it's somewhere at 400 million. Mr President, I would like to Today, as an old sports teacher, I thought I'd talk about lifesaving. This may actually be the case if the ice starts to freeze a little. I've worked as a teacher for 15 years and I've seen how the College of Teachers has drowned during that time. They've drowned in data and drowned for hours. They have suffered from things that they have not chosen to take on themselves. Those who have been able to swim have swam into land and fled the profession. There are many good, competent teachers whom we have lost in this way. At present, it does not help us politicians to stand on dry land and throw in a lot of ideological life-saving lines that we are thinking about or coming and screaming about what kind of swim the teachers are going to use in order to move on. They're not prepared to think about swimming. They swim to stay above the surface at all. The few competent, skilled teachers that we have and who remain in the profession swim to survive. In this case, I would like to point out that lifesaving is precisely what my speech will be about. A person who drowns doesn't think about how to swim. A person who drowns is thinking about how to survive day by day, hour by hour, second by second. It doesn't help with what we have now, lots of semi-solutions that are presented. We're throwing out a lot of lifebuoys that aren't up to speed. They'll sink after a while. And above all, we develop semi-solutions where, for example, the municipality must provide half the investment. These are good thoughts and sound good, but unfortunately it will be negative, because the municipalities today have no money to make their own investments. I was drawn to the attention of the billion we are investing in trying to rebuild school premises. Everyone in here knows they're substandard. However, the schools themselves cannot afford to spend any money on getting things right. All of us who have really done lifesaving know that when you try to save someone, the person is not nice and still, so that you can swim in with the person to land without splashing wildly. The College of Teachers will do so regardless of what ideas we present to them, for they are currently not interested in new thoughts. Those of us who sit in here and are politicians know that there is a major system error that needs to be addressed fundamentally. It is not an easy task for any of us. The Swedish Democrats have chosen to listen to the OECD recommendations. It's truth that hurts. These were not nice solutions that the OECD presented to us. It mentions, among other things, the poor teacher training that exists at present. It's about the backbone to get good students, if we have a good chef and a bad chef and the students are the same raw materials as 20 years ago – I don't think the Swedish students have become stupid in 20 years. A good cook prepares much better food than a bad cook. We must invest in the good teachers that we have left in the system and recycle those that we have lost. I will come back to the solutions we have. We must stop ideological reforms. Everything must be based on research and knowledge. If it's a change we're going to make in school, it should be good for the students, the teachers and the many different school heads. We may have to change the position we have. When it comes to the idea that we should include principals in the system who have not worked as teachers, we want to Swedish democrats to point out knowledge about the employees' everyday situation and a very clear leadership. You don't have to be a teacher, but in order to be able to work as a principal, it is a good condition to have attended the teacher training. At present, there is a total non-existent joint IT initiative in the Swedish school. I am addressing Gustav Fridolin here, because I know that for a few days he came out with something in the media. I think it is a concrete, good initiative to start with. But we must dare take a holistic look at the system. It must not be the case that small, personal interests of entrepreneurs mean that small systems are taken over around Sweden. It must be uniform from the start. I will come back to the concrete solutions. I see time is running out, so I'll come up with some quick solutions. Solutions that the Swedish Democrats want to present are, among other things, on-call classes for those students who can't cope with the ordinary classroom environment – I don't go into it any deeper. We want a career ladder for real, not a career ladder based on a principal being given a mandate to hand out money here or there, because that's wrong. Half of the principals aren't even teachers. How are they supposed to know what quality makes you a good teacher in the classroom? We also want there to be a re-employment of the surrounding staff. All of us who have worked as teachers have seen in the last 20 years how caretakers, study and career counselors, school nurses and curators – all the people who actually help the teacher college to feel good and make teachers a teacher – have been removed by the municipalities, because they have had such poor finances. Are those people reinstated when the municipalities then get good finances? No, unfortunately not, but then it's a win instead. It's just a tool. We all know that in here. But if we use it properly, we can save a huge amount of time for the college of teachers to engage in what they actually want to do. We also know that the link between school and reality is unfortunately sometimes lacking. The Swedish Democrats are for all models where we ensure that associations and companies enter the Swedish school again. Much of it is even deductible for companies, so it's a win-win situation for everyone. When it comes to the classroom environment and the outdoor environment, research was – heard and amazed – a few weeks ago. It turns out that children who are mentally well also perform well. It has to do with the actual environment. There are two questions we should all ask ourselves in here. It is actually recommended by the OECD. I draw your attention once again to the two issues. What is the mark of a good teacher? What is a good teacher training? When we have the answer to the two questions, I do not think that it is a problem for all of us in eight parties to put ourselves in a room and agree on what to do. There is a lot of copying in politics, I understand. The Swedish Democrats have presented ten concrete solutions to how we could improve the Swedish school. I have seen a little worse variants of our proposals put forward by other parties. It is certainly with a good thought in it all and that one wants to follow one's ideology. I believe in the Finnish model – I am absolutely convinced. I address myself directly to Minister Gustav Fridolin : Gather together, sit in a room, do as they did in Finland 25 years ago! Put all the politicians in a room and agree what we want to do! I am absolutely convinced that with a little goodwill we could reconcile ourselves with regard to 50 – 60% of school policy, in order to get a common pile on the table, for teachers, students, parents, free schools and municipal schools – a security for everyone out there who works in school. Whoever wins the election in 2018 or 2022 or ahead then knows what applies – a security. I want to finish through a small modification of Queens famous song, to all my colleagues out in the country: You are the champions of the World. Without you, we would never stand here, either of us. One promise to you, in these Christmas days, is that when the Swedish Democrats take over in 2018, I will give you a good working environment and also a career opportunity worthy of the name, to actually come and work as a teacher. We will not – however much we want – be able to solve the teacher crisis by taking people who are in the system and quickly training them. We cannot solve the teacher problem by trying to quickly educate or validate. But we can solve the teacher problem by getting teachers back. I know we are arguing about how many teachers there are, but there are 30 000 teachers in business. There's the quick, easy solution. They are teachers, and they also have professional experience. I believe in that solution. Merry Christmas to all of you!
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-686	Mr President, I would like to I shall make three brief reflections and put a question to Stefan Jakobsson in connection with his speech. First of all, I would like to say that the OECD has not actually delivered any solutions. They have identified problems, challenges and difficulties facing the Swedish school and education system. Anyone who finds a solution in what the OECD has written has probably read a little too much of their own proposals, and with a little too much goodwill. The second thing I want to say is that a national IT strategy is being developed, and this mission has been given to the Swedish National Agency for Education. It is indeed a comprehensive and holistic approach. I think it is very urgent, and it is not a day too soon. The third thing I want to say is that Stefan Jakobsson is absolutely right that the teachers' work situation needs to be improved. I think, however, that it is a bit strong to compare it with lifesaving in different contexts. You talk about how they drown, how they can't swim and how they float up on land. I would like to say that it looks quite different. It is important that we are aware that different municipalities have different conditions. Different student groups present different challenges for teachers. But we as politicians have enormous challenges to try to ease the administrative burden, make sure that they have more colleagues and that there are people to recruit and more. Then I'll come to the question itself. As this is a budget debate, I have, of course, also read the budgetary options of the Swedish Democrats. It is very difficult to understand how plus and minus goes with limiting immigration. However, this is an issue that is being discussed in all debates. That is why I shall stick to the part relating specifically to education policy. First, it is claimed that there is a surplus in Category 16, and then it votes on the Moderates' option, which includes a reduction of 3.2 billion. Then the bill of minus SEK 90 billion will be sent to the municipalities. What do Stefan Jakobsson and the Swedish Democrats think minus 90 billion will mean for the municipalities? Will the school be held harmless? What will this mean for fritis, preschool, school and adult education? Have you reflected on the consequences of minus 90 billion?
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-693	Mr President, I would like to I'll take it all in turn. It is possible that we have read too much into what the OECD writes. But as a teacher, I can see that what the OECD describes are exactly the things that we have seen as problems, and I think I can actually see solutions in the text. It's really nice to have an IT bet. We agree on that. But make sure that it is large and comprehensive enough and that it becomes state-owned. That's my recommendation. We fully agree on the working environment. I may not bring up all the teachers in Sweden who are doing well, and I may not mention all the well-functioning schools. All of us in here know that they exist, and those who listen may also know that they exist. I am the first to highlight the good examples. However, I am speaking on the basis of the situation we have today. I really want to come up with concrete solutions for those who are in difficulties. I do not need to come up with solutions for those who have already solved this themselves. With regard to the EUR 90 billion, I do not know how many times Oscar Sjöstedt has mentioned this. But I'll bring it up one more time. It is true that we want to invest a lot of money in the school. It's number one. And it is true that there will be a reduction in the municipalities. If our policy had now been introduced from day one, i.e. from 1 January, there would have been so much reduced immigration to Sweden that the money that the municipalities should use for this purpose would not have had to be sent out from the state. It is this money that we spend on other things instead. I therefore hope that we can now release this debate once and for all. It is not a question of giving less money to the municipalities. It is a question of assuming that our policies go through, and then the money will not be needed in the municipalities. I hope I have made this clear.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-699	Mr President, I would like to I would like to emphasise that everyone in this House, not least those of us in the Committee on Education, is very important when it comes to giving a picture of the Swedish school. I agree that there are teachers who are having a very difficult time, and there are schools that have very tough challenges. We try in different ways to help them through Collaboration for the best school, competence development and various forms of support to enable teachers to feel that they are meeting the challenges they face. But we must be careful not to black out the Swedish school. I would like to send a final appeal to Stefan Jakobsson. In all the speeches we make in our schools, it does not hold that we do not mention all the things that are going well. Then the picture is that everything is black. I'd like to say it. I do not know how we can release the discussion of minus 90 billion. I don't know which municipality Stefan Jakobsson sees in front of him. I live in Kalmar municipality but, as I said, I am not a municipal politician. I'm not quite sure, but I think this would mean about 90 million for Kalmar municipality. Even with the most creative bookkeeping, 90 million cannot be saved on immigrants, on new arrivals and on the reception of refugees. It will, of course, affect schools. Teachers will be allowed to go home. It will be leisure teachers and special educators who will not be able to work. Student assistants and student health will be affected. You cannot seriously believe that, when you sit in the Swedish Parliament, we will not discuss 90 billion in reduced state subsidies to the municipalities. It will mean changes in reality, and it will mean changes in the Swedish school. It will certainly not go in the direction that I think the OECD would advocate.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-703	Mr President, I would like to When we look in the papers, we can see that unfortunately the truth is that eight out of ten teachers are prepared to leave the profession. We must speak with the majority of teachers who are prepared to leave the profession. If we already have a great flight of teachers today, we must ensure that we focus on those who are willing to leave the teaching profession. We will never be able to train at the rate at which they leave the profession. I think we all agree on the importance of a good teacher – a good, competent and good teacher who is a leadership trained teacher. We are talking about this in teacher training, which we do not think is good. If we think this is important, I say again, and I am also looking at the chairman of the Education Committee: do not call us for small find-on solutions such as the School Commission, the High School Investigation and so on. Call us and propose a real and concrete solution for all parties, and do not let us out until we agree, so that there is peace and quiet in school policy. I am a reality politician, and I am also a municipal politician and see what it looks like in the municipality. We have been testing Social Democratic politics and alliance politics in the municipalities for many years. You claim that our solution will not work. But try our solution for a year, and we'll see if it works. The other solutions have been tried, and it has turned out that they have not worked and, above all, not now.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-707	Mr President, I would like to I must say that I am very provoked when I hear Stefan Jakobsson talk about few competent teachers in the Swedish school. Lena Hallengren also mentioned this in her reply. I really wonder how many schools Stefan Jakobsson and the Swedish Democrats have been out in. Every day tens of thousands of teachers go to work and do their very best to ensure that they receive the education to which they are entitled. Stefan Jakobsson's comment is therefore very provocative. I was going to focus on something else. I was going to focus on the turn of the Swedish Democrats when it comes to profits in welfare and not least in school. For many years, profit-making actors have reaped large amounts of money within the Swedish school at the expense of pupils and at the expense of staff and quality. The Swedish democrats said before the elections: We will put an end to these greedy actors. We will put an end to the venture capital companies. We shall see to it that we put an end to the waste of resources and ensure that all tax money goes to what it is intended for, and in this case to the school. But then something happened. After the Swedish Democrats had had a number of meetings with the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and other actors, they suddenly turned around on this issue. At the last Congress, the Land Days or whatever you call it, you decided that you should no longer only have a fascist image but also very clearly go into a more neoliberal and capitalist interpretation of school policy in this case. I wonder: how is it that the Swedish democrats are failing their voters in this area? How come the Swedish Democrats think it's okay that we have actors who earn billions in tax money on our students and staff instead of investing in quality?
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-713	Mr President, I would like to I would like to say again to Daniel Riazat: stop putting the epithet. We still have people sitting around watching this. You don't know me personally. I think it's very bombastic of you to put the epithet on people you don't even know personally. I think you make a fool of yourself every time you say that, Daniel Riazat. The question was which schools I had visited. Daniel Riazat, I haven't visited schools. I've worked in schools. I have worked 15 years in seven different schools and met an incredible number of colleagues. My question to Daniel Riazat is, how long have you been a teacher? That is a question to which I would like an answer. To stand and paint untruths together with truths is a classic epithet that the Left Party is doing. It is true that we have had country days, and it is nice that Daniel Riazat even knows their names. I do not know what the Left Party's collections are called. Apparently, he's been watching. It's nice to see good politics on TV. On the other hand, when it comes to the turnaround that we should have made, it is quite the opposite. What we have done now is to ensure that we will force all free schools to acquire a buffer and a solidity in the company before they can make any profit at all. I am very grateful to Daniel Riazat for highlighting this issue so that I can explain it on television. It is about companies having to have a solidity before they can make any profit. The total profit for the free schools last year was 76 øre per hundred. I want Daniel Riazat to end his day by going down to the sausage man outside and asking if he is prepared to earn 76 cents per hundred. I think he'd shut down his company with immediate effect.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-720	Mr President, I would like to One can turn the debate and try to make it only about putting the epithet, which I have not even done on Stefan Jakobsson but on the party he represents. However, the debate is about something else. It was a good attempt to get away from what it really is about, namely to be able to say with numbers that it is about very small sums. In fact, the studies that have been carried out with regard to welfare gains show that over 10 billion per year have been collected by profit-making operators. A large majority of the money has gone to tax havens. That is exactly what the Swedish Democrats indirectly and directly supported during the time of the Alliance at the government. Even today, it is chosen to represent in a very clear way the greedy actors who want to shoe on our children and our staff. The question is again, Stefan Jakobsson : How is it that the Swedish democrats in the election movement said that they intend to stop the greedy actors who make such over-profits, but then – quite soon after the election, may I say – started talks with the parts of the business community that represent this issue and suddenly changed? How is it that the Swedish Democrats did so? Then I must return to the fact that the draft budget presented by the Swedish Democrats is in no way a realistic budget. It has been said before. Whatever you will do, there will be people who look like me and others in this Parliament, and no Swedish democratic budget can put an end to that.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-724	Mr President, I would like to I did not quite understand the question in the last part, but I am addressing the other questions. Yeah, it's about money. If Daniel Riazat had followed the whole country days and seen the entire document we have taken through, he would have seen that the Swedish democrats in paragraph 4 prevent this. We give the party board the opportunity to actually go in and make sure it's not about money going off to the Cayman Islands. It's about solidity – forcing companies to have such strong solidity that it's not like in Eskilstuna, where they had a free school that on Monday morning had a note on the door that said: Thanks for this time, but now it's over. It's about security. It is important to ensure that companies do not make any over-profits and that students have a guarantee of having a school to go to. Care should be taken to ensure that a school can retain the students for a while even if the school goes bankrupt. All of us who have worked in the municipal units know that the Swedish school cannot handle if 200 new students arrive on Monday afternoon. If, however, we get one or two months to rig for it, you can do it. So it is that buffer and solidity that we want companies to acquire.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-727	Mr President, I would like to It was with rising surprise I listened to Stefan Jakobsson, and for a while I hoped I heard wrong. In fact, I still hope so, because the description he gave by the Swedish teaching staff was probably one of the most odd things I have heard in this House. I understood it as saying that we have a few qualified teachers left and that those who are left are the ones who have not managed to escape – those who have not been able to swim ashore in a lifesaving operation. I hope, as I said, that I heard wrong, but I would like Stefan Jakobsson to develop his view of the Swedish teaching community. That, in my opinion, was a serious violation in the debate on school policy.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-729	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for allowing me to answer that question, Christer Nylander. Of course, both you and I know that there are an incredible number of talented and competent teachers left. What we are strongly opposed to is the current teacher training, which unfortunately does not produce as good teachers as before. Hopefully, the new teacher training that is now under way will ensure that we actually have teachers who work also in rural schools. Year 1 – 9, 4 – 7, 1 – 7 or 4 – 9, i.e. all the variations that exist in one or two subjects, makes it incredibly difficult for teachers to grade out in rural schools today. The Swedish Democrats are the whole of Sweden's party; we really want the smallest school – even Singö school with its 14 students – to survive. Then we must ensure that we have teachers who are competent to develop this. I believe that there is much to do in teacher education, and I am absolutely convinced that many teachers today may have received poor teacher training. It is just to look at the research analysis that came three days ago, where it was concluded that there is much to improve in teacher education. There is much we could do more effectively, such as clearer leadership training and providing them with better tools to function better as teachers. Camilla Waltersson Grönvall also mentioned the use of the competent and talented teachers we have today – mentoring for real. It is about all the newly graduated teachers who come out and are often thrown right into the business almost without any help and support. I myself was such a person who got zero mentorship; it was a name for a paper. While I have a representative of the Alliance here, I would like to point out that I think we have an equal issue for us. It is about the fact that we really want to invest money in the competent teachers who are prepared to take responsibility in the tough areas. It can be about too fast or too slow students or about children with non-Swedish background who have language difficulties and such. I have a few questions there, and that is how you think about the salaries you want to set for those teachers. You intend to add an extra SEK 5 000. Do the teachers only have wages when they work in the heavy areas? Will they have to go down in wages afterwards? What is their potential for development? Will they always have to stay in these difficult areas before they can raise their wages?
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-735	Mr President, I would like to I think it is important that we have a central career path for Swedish teachers to go to the schools that have the biggest challenges. That is why the Alliance has designed a programme to attract them to this. However, I am not going to let Stefan Jakobsson get away with it. It was not the teacher education Stefan Jakobsson criticized, and it was not the lack of teachers in rural schools Stefan Jakobsson criticized. Instead, he gave a general description of the Swedish teaching staff. He said we have a few qualified teachers left, namely those who couldn't swim ashore and get out of there. I did not understand that Stefan Jakobsson distanced himself from that description, but apparently he stands by it. Perhaps I did not hear wrong, but perhaps the Swedish Democrats have that image of the Swedish teaching staff. I would like to ask Stefan Jakobsson to think again about whether he should not apologise for that statement.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-738	Mr President, I would like to No, I don't think I have to apologize, Christer Nylander, because I think I describe the everyday lives of many teachers. Unfortunately, for many years teachers have been sent out from teacher training and into the system that does not maintain the quality the Swedish school requires today. If you talk to the teachers of today you can see that it is a completely different kind of teacher we need in the Swedish school. They must be flexible and very secure in their area. Unfortunately, we have not given many teachers the right skills to be so safe in their role. The OECD report mentions that one third of teachers today are poor and do not have the leadership or knowledge training they need. It's not their fault. It's their fault. It's their fault. They haven't got the tools they need. The OECD also suggested that we need to take a good look at centralising and ensuring that we get better teacher schools and better teacher training. So I am not going to apologize for anything, but I would like to make it clear that it is the education we have given to the College of Teachers that has made it impossible for them to have the right tools. It's like sending out a carpenter with just one carpenter's belt to try and fix a whole house-- it's not possible. We must give them better tools, and we must ensure that we continue to help them along the way. Camilla Waltersson Grönvall suggested it, and that is a good sign. I am sure the Liberals will come back with their own thoughts on that too.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-741	Mr President, I would like to One of these points in the debate is whether to rewrite one's speech linked to the various contributions that have been made in the past. However, I choose to stick to what I have prepared. No one can argue with me when I say that it varnishes for Christmas and that the autumn term begins to suffer towards its end. Most grades are well-placed in the Swedish school, but I can imagine that there are still frenetically practiced before Christmas endings of various kinds. These are songs to be trained, Christmas games to be done and so on. At the same time, I think that many people feel a great deal of satisfaction, because you know that you have done a good job. Many students know that in different ways they have achieved the goals they set themselves, and many teachers feel that together with their students they have managed to achieve the goals they had. At the same time, however, it is certain that some feel that the power, commitment, resources and time were not enough and that they did not reach where they hoped to reach. It's very different, and it should be different. But all schools need to be of high quality. That's our focus. Sweden is one of the countries that spend the most resources on the school. It will be so easy for us to discuss various appropriations in the budget. Of course we will debate that. But it is important to think about: what do we do with the resources that we actually have? The Center Party has set different priorities in its budget from those of the government parties. We therefore have a specific opinion linked to the report. We have proposed a lot of resources for young people's jobs. In the line that we have prioritised, the government chooses to cut tens of billions. The government replaces the possibility of the first real job with a number of measures. Mr President, I would like to The Center Party adopted a new programme for its education policy last autumn. This is the basis for both the national and the local levels. We assume that decisions will be made as close to people as possible. We want to create a school for the future. It is a school for jobs no matter where in the country you live and no matter what economic background you have. We want a school with less detail control and greater confidence in the profession. It is a school with talented teachers who see the student and who can give the student the challenges needed to perhaps reach even further than it might have dared to hope. It is a school that grows from below together with those that it touches and gives everyone a good foundation regardless of whether they have Swedish as their native language or come from elsewhere. We're all going to have the same conditions. It is also a school where entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship are included as a clear common thread throughout the education and with a higher education that has close collaboration with the working world. It has already been in the debate that teachers too need to have a reduced administrative burden and be able to invest precisely in teaching. There are many different conditions for this. The Alliance government carried out a number of very important reforms. It was about a new teacher training, new steering documents and a new school team. Very much is in place. As far as the Center Party's view is concerned, there are three different things that I would like to highlight in particular. It is the teacher's crucial role in the success of the students and students. It is also freedom of choice for students, teachers and parents, and that is that education should lead to jobs. As far as teachers are concerned, we are aware of the lack that exists. We agree with the government that there needs to be more paths to the teaching profession. It feels great, and it is also important to be involved in designing it. At the same time, we need to do more to ensure that teachers stay and develop in their profession. There I want to highlight the alliance government's efforts linked to the Teacher Lift, the Matte Lift, the Reading Lift and many different competence-enhancing parts. But it is also about career paths and having the opportunity to make a career in their profession. It should not just be to start as headmaster, politicians or something else, but that freedom is, of course, worth keeping. We need to keep many of the older teachers in the Swedish school. This applies not least to the need to train many new arrivals. They are teachers who are good at the language education itself. I am thinking not least of many of the so-called primary school teachers. They are even experts in reading learning and language development. I'm going to let them stay and develop. Why the government should raise the salary tax for retired teachers seems to me incomprehensible. Representatives of government parties have also sighed over this and admitted that it is a problem. It is particularly unfortunate for the school, the students and the individual teachers. The free choice of schools in Sweden is something we should be very careful about. The ability to choose a school and that there are different directions is also an important prerequisite for the student to find the right one. I and the Center Party are concerned about the tendencies that exist to restrict that possibility. In this context, I would also like to raise another issue that is central, namely the possibility of remote learning. This possibility for different schools is now being dealt with in an investigation. We in the Center Party would like to go even further when it comes to opening up the possibility in all relevant subjects. Why won't that be possible in the future, Gustav Fridolin? The third part is about training to work. Unfortunately, the government's budget puts the various parts at a disadvantage. For example, we can look at apprenticeships, for which we are happy to see an increased interest. Unfortunately, there is a reduction in the budget, which is unfortunate. The options in the professional programmes are important for the Center Party. There, all programs can lead to a higher education qualification. My question to Minister Hadzialic, who will be present later in the debate, concerns lifelong learning. Is it only about theoretical knowledge, or can it also be about professional knowledge? During the autumn, many schools have received children and young people who have been on the run and have finally come to a country of relative peace and quiet. I have great admiration for the work that many teachers have done and do every day. There are great challenges here. We are, of course, involved as center parties at both the national and local levels. There are several suggestions for solutions. I hope the government listens to them. Mr President, I would like to I would therefore like to conclude my speech. I would like to take this opportunity to wish the whole of Skolsverige, my colleagues in the debate and also, Mr President, a truly joyful and peaceful Christmas!
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-762	Mr President, I would like to The magazine Everything recently published a list of the legislative proposals submitted by the Ministry of Education recently since the election. Here's the whole list. There are five legislative proposals that have so far come from the Department of Education. Two of them are about the extension of registry laws, one is about changing the re-purchasing of student debt, and one is about improvements for new arrivals, a proposal that the Alliance and the government want to implement jointly. The common feature of all five legislative proposals put forward by the government since the elections is that they are prepared under the alliance government. At the same time, the OECD notes that there is a great need for further, comprehensive reforms of the Swedish school in order to raise the Swedish school's knowledge and ensure that the Swedish school is one of the best in Europe. What the government does is very little in comparison with what would be needed. It's done something else. It has set up some investigations and a school commission to think until 2017, and it makes some budget changes that I think are basically quite good. It retains some of the efforts we have made on teaching careers and some of the initiatives introduced by the Alliance for teacher training. But it's a very low pace of reform right now for the government. If you want to lift up Swedish school, the ambitions must be much higher than what the government has shown so far. Some of what the government is proposing even contradicts the OECD's view. A major problem that we have in Swedish schools is that we have unclear governance. It is a dual command in which the state is responsible for deciding which levels of knowledge are to be reached and the municipalities are the ones that should try to fund this. As a result, there is a lack of clarity throughout the governance process, which also makes accountability difficult. The Liberals' answer to that question is that we should probably make sure that the state takes over the primary responsibility for school from the municipalities. We will then have a clearer link between those who decide which levels of knowledge are to be sought and the resources available to reach those levels of knowledge. This would probably mean that fewer politicians have the chance to interfere and complicate the day-to-day life of teachers. It would also mean that teachers and principals in schools would have more power over their everyday lives. It would be a good way to steer up Swedish school and give it a better chance to reach the knowledge results. The government does the opposite. With the proposal in the budget bill, the state takes increased responsibility for the renovation of schoolyards. There's nothing wrong with nice schoolyards. But it is a strange idea that the state should make sure that it is done when it is the municipalities that are the principals. You also have ideas about improving the toilets. It's a good idea to have good toilets. But it's a strange idea that the state should, in order to use Scanian, be cluding the control system further by taking over a lot of investments that it should be natural for those who have the headship over the school to stand for. That's going the wrong way. Instead, let us note that if we are to have a clearer governance of the school, which many experts perceive there is a need for, it is better for the state to take over the head office from the municipalities. Mr President, I would like to A central issue that we can neither discuss too little nor too much in this House is that many new people are coming to S verige now and how to ensure that those of school age get a good start in Sweden. Those who come to primary school probably do quite well. There are statistics that show that for girls who come to Sweden in the primary age, it is a good chance that things will go well. But those who come in their teens and have a tangled school background – they may even be illiterate when they come here – often find it difficult to pass primary and secondary school. They will also find it difficult to enter the labour market. That is why we need to think creatively in order to solve the situation for these in particular. We also need to think more creatively so that we protect the ordinary business while spending a lot of resources on the new ones that come here. With a bad reception in schools, you risk destroying even the regular activities in the classrooms. Then the quality is at risk both for the new arrivals and for those who already go to Swedish school. We need to improve the quality of the introduction. I am therefore pleased that the government is pursuing the ideas that the Alliance had in this area in order to increase quality. We must ensure that those who come to Sweden get a good start while safeguarding the quality of the regular business. Mr President, I would like to One main problem in government school policy is that you lack a long-term idea of what you want. During eight years of alliance rule, we had a clear idea of re-establishing the school of knowledge. We held a high pace of reform to improve knowledge performance in Swedish schools. We are now beginning to see an increased interest in the reforms that we have carried out. We did not do everything right, and we might have done something different if we had had to do it again. But we had a fundamental idea that Sweden had to re-establish the school of knowledge and re-establish its view of knowledge in order to cope with the tough competition that Sweden is facing. Mr President, I would like to I do not see that the current government has an overall idea of what to achieve. Perhaps that explains why so few reforms are being made. You have no idea what you have to do. We have some common ideas when it comes to new arrivals, but in general when it comes to raising knowledge results in Swedish schools it is pointless. The issues we should devote more time to are the lack of clarity of governance, the lack of peace of mind, the need for order and order in the classroom, the raising of the status of the teaching profession and much more. There is a great deal to be done, Mr President, but unfortunately there is a lack of an overall idea in what the Swedish Government is doing in the field of school.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-781	Mr President, I would like to It is positive that the People's Party, as the only opposition party, stands up for the teacher wage effort that is now being made. It is not simple and many discussions can be held on what balances are being made and which groups are included and not, in the same way as with career and first teacher positions. It is clear, however, that we need to make the teaching profession more attractive in various ways. In his speech, Christer Nylander rallied over some of the reforms and questioned whether they were really the role of the state. But the major reforms that the People's Party does not support are about recreation centres, special educational interventions, school libraries, homework help, pupil health and national school development programmes. How do Christer Nylander and the Liberals feel about the promise Anna Kinberg Batra made not to save the school? Should we consider it that there will be no savings at school and that several of the reforms planned will ultimately receive the support of the Liberals?
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-784	Mr President, I would like to I'm glad Lena Hallengren finally corrected and said the Liberals. It is absolutely right that both the People's Party and the Liberals think it is a good effort to raise teachers' salaries. We will therefore support this idea both now and in the future. The main problem is that for decades the principals have not taken responsibility for teachers' salaries. Nor have they taken responsibility for career paths and training opportunities. I think you should look a little backwards and not just promise things ahead. If Lena Hallengren did, she would soon get the answer to her question. There are few periods in Swedish school history when so many reforms have been made to lift Swedish school as we did during the alliance government. Huge efforts were made by the government to lift the school. Looking at history, one can probably guess what the Alliance will do when we regain power and run Swedish school again. I am pleased that the Moderates have also stated that there are resources for Swedish schools and that the state should take a clearer responsibility for there to be resources in Swedish schools.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-789	Mr President, I would like to Resources for Swedish schools are urgent. That is much more important than many of the tax deductions that we have seen in recent years. The possibility of making major efforts now exists precisely because we are abstaining from major tax cuts. Restoring the school of knowledge is something the Liberals often return to. It's hard to think about. No one will raise their hand to ensure that we do not have knowledge goals and that we do not learn anything. However, it can hardly be said that we achieved the knowledge goals to a lesser extent before all the reforms of the Knowledge School of the Alliance started. What self-criticism is in the Liberals? Were all the reforms so wise? Above all, what is needed in the future? We cannot continue to say that everything was fine with the reforms of the Alliance Government and that we do not need to do any more. I cannot say that in the Liberals' budget options or in Christer Nylander's speech there are any specific initiatives or ideas on how, for example, we should attract 60 000 more to the teaching profession.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-793	Mr President, I would like to Lena Hallengren claims that the Alliance would have prioritised tax cuts before investing in schools. Let us look at the text supported by the majority of the Committee on Education. On p. 28 stands: a mean cost per student was SEK 94 400 in 2014, which is an increase of 2.9 per cent compared to the previous year. It's about elementary school.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-796	That's what it looked like. By having a policy that creates more jobs and more resources for society as a whole, you can also give more money to school. Therefore, the Alliance managed to have an eight-year period when the state gradually took over more and more of the responsibility that the principals should take in terms of teacher salaries, teacher careers, teacher training and much more. We did both. We made sure that Sweden got an economy that created more jobs, thereby creating resources to lift Swedish schools. The Alliance parties are now sitting separately and together and are thinking about how to continue this pace of reform. I can promise Lena Hallengren that the Liberals will continue to have a high ambition to ensure that Sweden gets a policy that raises the knowledge results.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-800	Mr President, I would like to I requested a reply to inform Christer Nylander of what the government wants. The Liberals' Christer Nylander claimed that the government does not know what it wants with the school. Then he's ill-read. What the government wants is an equal school. What the government wants is to have a school for all children. What the government wants is to give every child an honest chance to develop. What the government wants is to see that the level of knowledge in school is raised. What the government wants is to improve the conditions for all teachers and all school staff. What the government wants is to make sure we have the best preschool and school in the world. What the government wants is to develop the Swedish school. What do we know with the facts in hand after eight years of failed alliance politics and with the Liberals, the former People's Party, at the school helm? What was the outcome? Yes, greater segregation, lower levels of knowledge and greater exclusion everywhere. And everyone – from teachers to the National Agency for Education and the OECD – complained that Sweden is falling behind more and more. I hope you're more up to date next time, Christer Nylander. It has been clearly declared what the government wants, and I understand that is not where you want to go. You want a school that's not equal.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-804	Mr President, I would like to I guess I'm not the world's most well-read person, but I've read some, including the budget option from the government. In fact, I have read the budget options of the other parties as well. I have been listening to Mr Amin's reply for two minutes now, and I still do not think I have a picture of the overall idea of school policy. That was a lot of great words, but I miss the overall idea of why you are doing this. I have a question for Jabar Amin. These were rather tough words about the policy of the alliance government – a policy that Jabar Amin believes creates terrible results in Swedish schools. Can Jabar Amin mention three things that the current government has abolished – reforms that the Alliance did and that you thought were so bad that you abolished them?
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-807	Mr President, I would like to It is not only me who criticises the school policy of the Alliance Government, but it is shared by many heavy bodies. If you look at the reality, what has happened with the level of knowledge, how many have been knocked out of the Swedish school and how the working and salary conditions have become for the teaching staff and those who work in the school, you can see how much negative your policy has led to. No, Mr President, we do not want to use the same recipe as the Alliance had. We know that recipe is demonstrably wrong. Liberals usually say that they measure success in number of laws – number. They think you can reach the target best if you run fast. No, if you run fast, but in the wrong direction, you don't get to the target. That's what you've been doing for eight years-- you've been running fast, but in the wrong direction. That's why you couldn't raise the level of knowledge. That's why it became exclusion. That's why the teaching staff and others in the school got it too hard. That policy is for you to answer for, Christer Nylander, not for me. We present a policy for an equal school, to offer all children a development opportunity, to raise the level of knowledge and to ensure that our teachers and those who work in school are given the best conditions. If that's not enough for you, Christer Nylander, it's not our problem. An equal school is important to us, and that is, among other things, where we want to go.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-814	Mr President, I would like to I asked Jabar Amin if he could give three examples of reforms that the Alliance has carried out and which the current government is now tearing up. The Alliance's policy led in the wrong direction. We ran in the wrong direction and caused quite a lot of damage to Swedish school, but yet Jabar Amin cannot give examples of things that he thinks the government should abolish or that the government has abolished. I take it Jabar Amin thinks we did quite a lot of good. I also interpret the budget proposal that way. After all, the government retains the reforms we made. They even build out some of our reforms, and I think that is a good thing. My only hesitation with the government is that it does not seem to have its own idea of what it wants with school. I think that's unfortunate. Swedish schools need more reforms to raise knowledge outcomes, but such knowledge reforms obviously cannot be delivered by this government.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-818	Mr President, I would like to Swedish school faces major challenges, but I am convinced that we can overcome the falling school outcomes if we concentrate together reforms and the debate on what will really make a difference. A crucial factor in reversing the trend is that pupils in need of special support receive the help they need from teachers with the right skills. In the Christian Democrats' budget, we are therefore making a big effort on a special teacher's lift. All students are different and unique and need different solutions to develop maximum. A school form is not suitable for everyone, and an educational method is not the solution for all problems. Every tenth student also has some kind of disability. We must therefore offer a palette of school forms and individual solutions for our students. The tool to achieve this is that there is enough special pedagogy skills in our schools. We are facing a major shortage of trained specialist teachers. The Alliance government reopened the special teacher training, but seats are gaping empty. A national initiative in the field of special education is therefore needed to meet future needs. The Christian Democrats therefore propose a special teacher's lift where teachers are offered to supplement their initial education with a special teacher's education with essentially retained salary, 80 percent of the salary, like the Teacher's Lift model. The special teacher lift involves a total of SEK 2.4 billion spread over three years and means that approximately 6,500 teachers will be able to be trained as special teachers. The reform also means that regular education can work better for all pupils, when pupils with special needs receive the support they need. The special teacher lift is also a way to increase the career opportunities for teachers and thereby increase the status of the profession as well as a way to improve the working environment in the classroom. Mr President, I would like to The current refugee crisis presents our society with major challenges. It concerns social services, the labour market and, not least, the school. According to the Finnish Immigration Service's statistics, more than 170 000 asylum seekers have been sent to Sweden so far this year. Of these, about 64,000 are children. In many municipalities, the situation is now under strain. For the Christian Democrats, it is a priority to offer a good long-term response to children in need of protection. When the need is greatest, our help needs to be at its best. To meet this challenge, Sweden must be relieved by more countries taking greater responsibility than they do today. At the same time, reforms are needed here in Sweden to improve integration, and education plays a crucial role. It is extremely important to get through school in order to prevent permanent long-term exclusion with all the social problems that it can bring. Now both urgent measures are needed in municipalities to cope with the situation and longer-term measures that contribute to more pupils meeting the knowledge requirements in schools. Of the immigrant students who enter Swedish school in grades 6 to 9, only one in four today attains upper secondary school qualifications. The migration agreement concluded by the Christian Democrats and other alliance parties with the government contains important decisions concerning the school. In addition to planned resource reinforcements, free schools should be given better opportunities to receive asylum seekers, and municipalities should be able to place pupils in schools other than the neighbouring ones more easily. New arrivals with teacher skills should be able to teach students who speak the same language. Retired teachers and teachers should also be able to be a resource in teaching. But more will be needed, both in the long and short term. Conquering the language is the key and the best way to a good integration. All classrooms in Sweden now have students from all over the world. All teachers today teach these students and would need knowledge of Swedish as a second language. In order for newcomers to reach the knowledge goals, we Christian Democrats propose a skills initiative to train 3 000 teachers in Swedish as a second language – 200 million annually in 2016 – 2019. Mr President, I would like to Good knowledge development also requires a good school environment and student health. The students who are well learn better. A well-developed student health care also promotes preventive work on mental illness in children and young people. The aim for us Christian Democrats has long been to introduce a student health guarantee – a guarantee that gives a student the right to contact staff who are trained to meet the needs within 24 hours. The Christian Democrats therefore propose a strengthening of student health care compared to both today's level and the government's proposal in the 2016 budget bill. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I come to the greatest challenge of all and a call to all of us: we must solve the great future shortage of teachers. The Christian-Democratic efforts I have been talking about today require that already graduated teachers further train themselves as special teachers or teachers of Swedish as a second language. In addition, we need to train more in SFI. This creates problems at the other end. We need to get the search print up for teacher training. We need to improve the quality of teacher training. We need to draw back the good educators who have left the teaching profession for various reasons. This is best done by showing confidence in the profession and freeing the teaching profession from too much opinion. Last but not least, we need to talk about the teaching profession in a positive way, as one of the most important professions one can have. It should not be as we have just heard from this speaker's chair: that there are only a few competent teachers left. With this, I wish everyone a Merry Christmas and, above all, I support the Christian Democrats in particular.
i-3hZ7yc89nupy8KbUssQckn	Mr President, I would like to We're going to discuss field 16, education and university research. I support the committee's proposal in the report as a whole. An extensive and seemingly endless civil war in Syria has led to the refugee crisis that the world is currently seeing, experiencing, being affected by and trying to deal with in various ways. For Sweden, it has meant a great reception – greater than anyone could have imagined. But we have also seen solidarity that has gone further than I think many of us would have even dared to hope. In this situation, when the focus is moved both naturally and necessarily to crisis management and refugee reception, we still know that everyday life continues relentlessly. That is why, at the same time, we must see the needs that were debated in the electoral movement just over a year ago. The school topped when voters were allowed to state the most important question. It's not weird at all, is it? Around the country, nearly 2 million children and nearly 250,000 teachers attend preschool and school every day. They see lack of teachers and falling knowledge. They have many joys, and they also experience an increasing segregation – all in reality. All of Sweden's teachers, students and also parents need a political commitment that really tackles this particular issue. School's challenges have not shrunk in the political shadow, rather the opposite. Madam President, I would like Although it has been a little over a year since the change of government, it is still – and perhaps it is always so – quite impossible to say who is most responsible. Of course, the current government should take the initiative, which is also being done. I'll get back to that. But the opposition, too, needs to think seriously about whether it really turned out as intended with all the reforms and changes in the past term. Self-criticism is always neat, and in this case quite necessary when you see how the curves consistently point in the wrong direction. Madam President, I would like Then what does the government do? During the parliamentary year that has passed and in this government's first full budget, SEK 2 billion will be invested in the primary school lift, SEK 830 million in smaller groups in preschool and SEK 250 million in fritis for doubling to half a billion in 2017. There will be 600 million on equality initiatives within the framework of collaboration for best school and 49 million SEK for night ice next year and then 80 million annually. Student health has been strengthened, and a read-write-count guarantee is introduced. SEK 140 million is allocated to school development and SEK 500 million to special teachers and special educators. Lovskola and homework help will be expanded once homework-RUT has now been abolished. A new knowledge boost is being carried out with more training places at universities and higher education institutions, at Komvux and at professional level. In polytechnics, the number of seats increased by 20 per cent from 2017. At folk high schools, many more people can now take a general course, and the Swedish National Agency for Education is working on the mission to strengthen the competence of SFI teachers. An investigation is working for more people to start and finish high school. The year of professional programmes is about to begin. Komvux will become a right, and the flat-rate allowance will be increased by 50% for the schooling of newly arrived children. A review of the system of national examinations is being carried out to reduce the administrative burden on teachers. A national IT strategy for the school is now finally being developed on behalf of the government, competence development for principals and preschool managers is being carried out with much more. In parallel, the School Commission is working on a long-term basis, under Anna Ekström's leadership, on the basis of the OECD report. All parties are part of the national collection to strengthen the teaching profession. Madam President, I would like There is so much to talk about and so little time available. I would therefore like to stress the importance of our being able to concentrate on efforts to meet the lack of teachers that is not just approaching; in many schools it is already a reality. Students receive late school leave because of difficulty in recruiting or having to change teachers often when an unauthorized teacher has only been hired temporarily. Teachers get new colleagues who need mentors, collegial grading or other support because they lack the necessary training or longer experience. By 2019 there are around 60 000 teachers missing. For the specific teacher shortage there are resources assigned to the KPU. Next year allows permanent employment for up to three years for those who simultaneously undergo the KPU. We will also see an investment in the KPU for researchers with 25 000 SEK per month as a training grant. These are reforms that enter into force on 1 July 2016. Teach for Sweden gets increased resources, teacher training gets more seats and 250 million goes annually to humsam and teacher and teacher training. The major and important priority, which we have already had time to debate in a few turns today, is to raise teacher salaries by EUR 3 billion on an annual basis. It is a historic venture, and a venture that is unfortunately supported by only one opposition party, namely the Liberals. This means that each opposition party's draft budget for Category 16 varies from minus 2.6 billion up to minus 3.8 billion less than the government, black and white. The Swedish democrats, on the other hand, pretend to be investing in schools here in the chamber debate, but in fact cut 90 billion on the state grant to the municipalities. Municipalities – that doesn't mean much more than just school, age and grief. 90 billion is going to be dramatic for the school. I will correct myself from the change of line and say that Kalmar Municipality, with a little more than 60 000 inhabitants, would lose SEK 600 million out of a turnover of SEK 3.2 billion. 3 out of 4 crowns to the school disappears, or possibly the entire care of the elderly if it is preferable. Madam President, I would like If all new arrivals with teacher training receive their training validated and supplemented, this will provide approximately 2 000 teachers. If those who have left the profession are attracted back and if the retired teachers make another effort or the elderly postpone their retirement, there will be another addition. But basically the teaching profession needs to be and experience more attractive for more people to choose the teacher path. Madam President, I would like The attractiveness of the profession is about pay – absolutely. But I think it is just as much about society's view of the importance of the profession. How we decision-makers talk about school and how the media choose to write about school matters. At the same time, positive judgments, encouraging words, and happy calls from a parent should never be underestimated. Being a child's supporter in most cases means so much more than having your own university degree. Knowing this and having access to education on equal terms, many have been able to make class trips and go somewhere completely other than the generation before. Knowledge and education cannot be taken away from you, and it is with knowledge that you conquer both the world and the future. It is this self-confidence and this thirst for knowledge that we need to see, believe in and provide conditions for no matter where you come from, what education your parents have, whether you have a disability or if you are a guy or a girl.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-857	Madam President, I would like In my speech, I described the Christian Democrats' commitment to a special teacher's lift. This means an investment of 1 billion per year over the next three years and 6 500 specialist teachers to be able to be trained. We choose about the structure that was used on the first Teacher Lift. I see that in its budget the government also has an investment in further education in special education but with only 500 million per year, and it should be directed to preschool class and grade 1 – 3. The budget does not specify how this money should be spent, but through the media I have been told that the Government's ambition is to train 50 000 teachers. I would like to discuss this with Lena Hallengren. What do you have in mind when you want to slip out this 50 000 - year - old teacher? Wouldn't it be better to really train our teachers as special teachers who get the skills needed to teach our students with special needs?
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-860	Madam President, I would like It is positive that more parties than government parties spend money on training special teachers. I know that Gustav Fridolin is sitting behind me and will make a speech, and I hope that he is listening especially now. The resources are set aside, and exactly how they will be used, I do not think is fully understood yet. It is a combination of training special teachers and ensuring that more people get the skills needed to meet pupils in need of special support. I guess that's what makes the money enough for more, but I'm not sure that one makes such a sharp balance as Annika Eclund describes. I do not dare to tell you exactly how it is supposed to work, but I leave that issue to the Minister for Education for further handling a little later.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-862	Madam President, I would like We in the Christian Democrats have long pushed the issue of a special teacher's lift, and I am pleased that we have got it into our budget as well. It was the alliance government that started the special teacher training again after the Social Democrats had shut it down. I do not share the view that only government parties have seen the need for special teachers and special teacher training. I welcome all the efforts on this point, so 500 million a year is great. The question is how to use this money most effectively. Smudge 500 million a year to further train 50 000 teachers in general does not seem to me to be spending the money in the most effective way. I look forward to the Minister for Education explaining how this money is intended to be spent, because it is not specified in the budget. I would urge you to think of special teachers instead of special educators. There are different functions that these professions have. The special teachers work directly with the students, and I think it's in the work we're going to see the big effects. There are also such tremendous needs now, both in terms of our new arrivals and in terms of the different needs of students where one in ten have a disability. This is a real priority for the Christian Democrats.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-867	Madam President, I would like I hope, as I said, that the Minister for Education will raise this issue. A combination of having special teacher training and giving many teachers the opportunity for further training can be described as smudging out, but you can also see it as the lift that is supposed to be made to give more people working in school opportunities. It is primarily about early intervention, which is one of the government's priority areas, and that is why priority is given not only to this initiative but to quite a few initiatives. If we don't start early, whether it's about special educators or special teachers and whether it's about mathematics or reading, writing and counting, it's harder the later you discover challenges that students face. This is fully in line with the government's priority, and I am pleased that we are continuing the discussion on how best to do this.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-871	Madam President, I would like I'm going to tell you that I was very happy when Lena Hallengren became chairman of the Education Committee. Of course, I would have liked it to have been an alliance representative, but that is part of the nature of the matter. I thought that now had finally come a person from the other side who shared my great love for preschool and my commitment to its importance. As former pre-school minister, Lena Hallengren obviously has a great knowledge of this. We Moderates are now proposing that we work to ensure that the first teacher system also includes preschool, that we look at transitions that today look different across the country and that we ensure that we have compulsory headmaster training for our preschools. I regret that the government has not taken advantage of the enormous resource that preschool is. We know the importance of a really good preschool for our children's continued entry into the school system. The Alliance government started a rather extensive work to lift the preschool with its own school form and so on, but there was a lot more to do, I am the first to admit. We have also highlighted this in our budget and in our proposal here today. I would like to hear a little bit about how Lena Hallengren views preschool and the shortcomings that I see are in the proposal that you are making today.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-876	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Camilla Waltersson Grönvall! Now I got two more minutes of speaking time here. Six minutes is an extremely limited time when trying to cover an area ranging from preschool to research. It was a fantasticly inspiring and important day that we had a number of weeks ago in the First Chamber, when we celebrated the 40th anniversary of the preschool law. Preschools are not the result of reform at one time, but there have been many reforms and determined work on everything from general preschools to training staff and maximum tariffs. It is not that this government is not working on it, if that is what Camilla Waltersson Grönvall is suggesting. It is about how pre-schoolers are part of the teacher's salary lift, it is of course about training more pre-school teachers and it is about strengthening in vocational studies and vocational programmes health care training and the educational orientations aimed at child care workers so that we can be sure that those who meet our young children early and in their first formalised learning have a good level of education. These are also benchmarks for the size of children's groups and resources for children's groups in order to make them smaller, but also for night ice, because it is an activity to develop. There is much to do, and I would like to say that preschool will play a tremendous role, not only for all the children who are already in preschool, but for many of the newly arrived children who are now coming. They will meet the Swedish language and be well prepared to join the Swedish comprehensive school. Preschool remains important, and I don't know what shortage Camilla Waltersson Grönvall specifically points to, but resources for both children's groups, teachers, teacher lifts and preschool managers lifts are just some of the investments that are in the government's budget.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-881	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by agreeing that I believe preschool is an enormous resource when it comes to our continued work on integration. There is an enormous amount of work to be done for the young children who are now coming to Sweden. Moreover, I noted that Lena Hallengren did not respond to the reforms that I mentioned with a single word. Most of the reforms referred to by Lena Hallengren were extensions and continuations of the reforms initiated by the Alliance Government. However, I would like to move on to other knowledge challenges where preschool is a part of it, but we have a number of other things to do. We see that we have a falling development of knowledge, and we have to work with it in a variety of ways. The results in the Swedish school have fallen clearly within the subject of mathematics for a long time. In 2013, the Alliance government saw to it that there were more math hours. And in the draft budget for 2016 it was added that it would be extended to more math hours even in middle school, i.e. grades 4 to 6. It is gratifying that the government has not removed it from the budget. It is fixed in the 2016 budget. So we will see more much needed math hours in grades 4 to 6. On the other hand, the government tore up the decision that was made here about a year ago when we made sure that there was more mathematics in grades 7 to 9. How does Lena Hallengren view it? Do not grades 7 - 9 need more mathematics hours? If so, when will they receive it?
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-887	Madam President, I would like I do not think that we should make it too easy for ourselves by believing that the number of hours alone will lead to greater knowledge fulfillment. Of course it matters. But it also matters to have qualified teachers, in which grades we have increased the number of mathematics hours and of course also what the mathematics classes look like – if I may put it that way. We have a huge challenge, not only with the lack of teachers in general, but specifically with regard to the lack of teachers in particular math, NO and technology. We need to do a lot to ensure that the hours the students get—there may well be more—are also hours when a qualified teacher teaches. I am concerned when I look at the statistics and forecasts of shortcomings in different categories of teachers. I think it is rather unfortunate to have a separate discussion on different subjects. It is good to conduct the discussions in a context, to look at what the hourly plan looks like, what topics you can have more or less of and in which grades you should have this. These are discussions that I know the opposition representatives have been in, and they will continue. But the ambition to increase the conditions for students to achieve their goals in mathematics in a better way is crucial. I hope that we in committee will be able to devote ourselves quite a lot to this in the coming spring and autumn and that we will not just say that we have an idea or that different ideas are good or bad. We will consider different ways to give students good conditions but also different ways to recruit qualified teachers who can be out in all our primary and secondary schools. If we don't succeed, I'll be even more concerned.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-891	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report. The Green Party's vision is a school where every child, regardless of his or her background, has the opportunity to develop. We want an equal school with the opportunity for educational diversity and principals who are driven by the education mission. The heads should want to give every child the right tools to learn to read, write, count, create, collaborate and think freely and critically. Investing in school and equipping our children for the future is one of the most important elements in the development towards a sustainable society. To do this, more people need to be teachers. And for more people to want it, teachers' work situation and status need to be improved. In order to develop and move the Swedish school forward, we in the Green Party have contributed to several steps forward in the 2016 budget. In the Green Party's election manifesto from the elections a year and a half ago – which I am now showing to Members of this House – we lined up many proposals for changes that we wanted to make. It would be useful reading for some here. It is about cutting red tape for teachers. It is about increasing the support for children at the right time. It's about valuing the teaching profession. It's about breaking the segregation. It's about investing in preschools and recreation centres. It's about renovating the country's schools and preschools. And it is about setting up a school commission and so on. It is gratifying that with this budget we are taking the step towards implementing many of those ideas. Among other things, more teachers and more staff within the school will be employed. During the years of bourgeois rule, 2006– 2014, 12 600 educational services were cut down in Swedish schools. As is well known, 2 billion are spent annually on hiring more in primary school. Furthermore, the government allocates 500 million annually to more special teachers and educators at school. We want to expand student health so that our children and young people have good opportunities. And now the government is devoting 200 million annually to this. We want to create better collaboration between the state and the different heads to improve the quality of our schools. The Government allocates 600 million annually within the framework of Collaboration for the best school. The money will be used to a large extent to enable the Swedish National Agency for Education, through an agreement with the heads of schools with low knowledge and difficult conditions, to raise knowledge outcomes and increase equivalence between schools. The government is now increasing the funding for this budget line by as much as 5 billion. This is the biggest investment that has been made on the Swedish education system over the past 10 – 15 years – as much as 5 billion. Yesterday and today, I have gone through all the budgetary efforts made over the last ten years. I am now showing the list to the Members of this House. I have gone through all the reports from 2006 to today. No government has invested as much as this government now invests in education and university research. What are the alliance parties doing while we are making these efforts? Well, compared to the government budget, they cut back. They don't call it cutting down, but to give less funding. Be that as it may! On p. 188 of the report, it is clear that the Christian Democrats want to cut – reduce – the funding – by nearly 4 billion. The Center Party wants to cut down by 3.6 billion. The Moderates want to cut down by 3.2 billion. And the Liberals just want to cut down by 2.6 billion. Sending so much less money to schools would have a major negative impact on schools. Thankfully, it seems that we will not hear about this in this House when we vote on it today or tomorrow. One of the Alliance's representatives was in the speaker's seat earlier and said in his speech that it has been claimed that they are spending less money. She referred to a debate held about ten days or two weeks ago. Apparently, she mixed apples with pears. At that time, the debate was about the means of study. It was another debate, not this debate. We see clearly how much less the alliance parties invest in the school. To reduce the grant compared to the government budget by a total of SEK 4 billion, SEK 4 000 million, would obviously affect Swedish school. Madam President, I would like Together with the Social Democrats, we in the Green Party have a vision of a school that is equal, a school where every child has the right to develop and learn, regardless of the background, a school where the results are high, a school where teachers and those who work in the school get better conditions. It is for this that we are making this historic investment in education and university research.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-906	Madam President, I would like Mr Amin's speech left some other things to be desired. I tried to listen very carefully, but I still think I missed some points. First, I would like to ask Jabar Amin: How much had disappeared from Swedish school during the year of the alliance government? I would like him to repeat that figure. Earlier in a change of line, Jabar chose Amin to say that the alliance government had run extremely fast, but in the wrong direction. I would like once again to give Mr Amin a chance to talk about what proposals have been made to reverse the direction of 180 degrees. Quite the wrong direction means that you have to turn in a completely different direction. I would like Mr Amin to clarify which parts he meant. In the name of decency, Jabar Amin said that cutting down meant not spending as much, but he nevertheless chose to continue to use the term cut back in the debate. You can say that you spend SEK 3 billion more on the school. It can certainly be useful, but at the same time taxes on businesses are being increased by 29 billion, the companies that create jobs for young people and the elderly in various ways. The students are being prepared in the Swedish school for the future working life, but the Green Party makes it harder for young people to get their first job. I'm surprised you don't see that whole.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-909	Madam President, I would like Ulrika Carlsson did not listen very carefully, but I said that no government has invested as much as this government does. Here I have a list of the investments that have been made over the past nine years, including eight years of alliance. No government has bet as much as we bet now. There has been a stake of 1 billion sometimes, sometimes 1 1⁄2 billion and sometimes 2 billion and so on. Now we are spending as much as 5 billion, and that is a historic investment. I didn't say you were cutting it down. As far as the government's efforts are concerned compared to what the Alliance is doing – or what you call less funding – there are cuts. You can call it smaller grants, but smaller grants will affect the school. Teachers need increased funding and higher teachers' salaries. That is why we are making these efforts. We see the need to develop the Swedish school. With the facts in hand, we saw that your policy did not get there as you wanted. There were lower learning outcomes, greater segregation, increased burdens for teachers and teachers did not get better wage conditions and working conditions. That is why increased resources are so necessary. It's amazing to hear you say that they can certainly be useful. Of course, more resources for teachers and for students are more useful.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-912	Madam President, I would like Jabar Amin, I said I was trying to listen very carefully, not that I wasn't listening carefully. My question was: With how many teachers had the alliance government cut down over the eight years? That's my question. Jabar Amin probably also knows that we have a number of different explanatory models, but he may not want to go into them here during this line shift. I will come back to this by running in the wrong direction. What about when the alliance government ran in the wrong direction? We made investments in career services, skills development and so on. That is precisely what is behind the billion-dollar investments made by the Alliance Government. The first Teacher Lift amounted to SEK 3.6 billion, and it was an important initiative made by the Alliance Government. Jabar Amin chose not to touch in a word on the fact that taxes are being increased by 29 billion to redistribute in this way. It is distressing that one chooses not to touch at all on what is to finance the whole, namely less opportunities for creating jobs in Sweden, in order to create a positive development that is economically and environmentally sustainable. That is why I would like once again to give Mr Amin a chance to answer my questions. How should policies be changed? What Mr Amin chose to highlight in his speech was, of course, what is stated in the School Act, that all children have the right to an education in order to reach their potential. We've written into the school law that's what's going on. This is not something that the Green Party alone is highlighting, but something that applies generally to all political parties that support the equal value of all people. That is why I shall listen with excitement to a clarification on my questions.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-919	Madam President, I would like The first clarification is that it was 12 600 educational posts that you cut down on from 2006 to 2014. The second clarification is that the Swedish National Agency for Education, the OECD and the whole of Sweden know that during the time of the Alliance the results of knowledge declined. Everyone knows that during the time of the Alliance, teachers were given more duties. Everyone knows that during the time of the Alliance, the teachers did not receive the wages they deserved. During the time of the Alliance, the Swedish National Agency for Education, the Central Statistical Office and other authorities involved in school development knew that exclusion from Swedish schools increased, that inequality increased, that exclusion increased – all these are facts and not something that someone makes up from the pulpit. These are the facts in reports. This is what I mean when, in 2014, after eight years of alliance rule, we saw your running in the wrong direction. This leads to greater segregation and less knowledge development. We are making all these efforts. What the Center Party is doing in its budget of p. 188 is to reduce the funding by as much as 3 500 million compared to the government – 3 1⁄2 billion. Does anyone seriously believe that school can go unnoticed with such a reduction? No, it will worsen Swedish school.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-924	Madam President, I would like As has been said earlier, we shall debate the report of the Committee on Education and Training on Category 16 Education and university research. After nine years of bourgeois budgets where the political priority has been to reduce taxes at the expense of welfare and school, we shall vote on a proposal drawn up by the Left Party and the Government. For many years Swedish school policy has been opposed to research and the profession, and the last decade has resulted in strong criticism from the bodies responsible for reviewing the Swedish school. Through an extreme privatisation policy, which is now the most extreme in the world, through strong marketing of so-called free school elections and a number of other neoliberal political tools, Swedish schools have changed. That is why we in the Left Party are pleased with the investigation that we have set up with the government to investigate and put an end to the huge tax evasion that takes place every year. Often, when the Swedish school is examined and criticized, the blame falls wrong on those who work and work in school. Not least, we've heard it from the speaker's seat before. But nothing could be more wrong. It is not the students' fault that school segregation has increased. It has increased because of the decisions taken here in Parliament and other decision-making bodies. It is not the fault of teachers that they do not have time to be the teachers they are trained to because of an excessive administrative burden. It is political choices that are the reason for this. It is not the headmasters' fault that they are today forced to be financial officials in many ways rather than educational leaders. It is because of the systems that we have voted in this House. In this way, I would also like to give a greeting to all those who work and work in the Swedish school: Thank you for the fantastic work you do for Sweden's future and for the country's democratic development! Madam President, I would like We in the Left Party are proud to have played a major role in the budget now presented by the current parliamentary budget majority. I am particularly proud of the effort to employ more people in fritis, an area which, unfortunately, has been forgotten for many years and has been absent from the political debate. Despite far too large children's groups and too few employees, the staff of fritis have done everything they could to operate as well as possible. They will finally be supported in their work. Let us also not forget the emphasis on educational outdoor environments at schools, preschools and fritis, an issue that is of great importance to children and students and on which it is now being invested. We are already proud that the tax subsidy for private homework aid, also known as homework RUT, was abolished earlier this year and that we can now finally invest in ensuring that all students, not just children of a particular social class, will receive homework help at school. Let us talk about what has happened in recent months! We have had a situation where wars and humanitarian disasters have led many people to leave their homes and go to, among other things, Sweden. We should be incredibly proud to be a country that people run to and from. We should be incredibly proud to have had such a great wave of solidarity, where both the Swedish people and the Swedish school have opened their doors to help all the people in need of help. But we should also say, in all honesty, that there is worrying rhetoric on this issue. When newly arrived children are referred to as some kind of crisis and when the refugees in some way become those who have created a crisis instead of the crisis being the situation they themselves are in, then we are on a slippery slope. I am pleased that the government has clearly signalled that steps should be taken to ensure that there is a dignified reception, to ensure that the students who come here can enter the education system as soon as possible and that newcomers can have their education validated as quickly as possible. There are several proposals that have been made. But more parties must be involved here, not only in rhetoric but also in practice. As I mentioned earlier in a change of line, I can agree with much of what even the Moderates have said in the speaker's seat on this issue. However, the Moderates have been at the government when we had immigration in the past, and unfortunately we have not seen the solutions mentioned here in practice. I would also like to take this opportunity to raise the issue of Komvux, which is now becoming a right. This is one of the most important parts, I mean, of Swedish education policy. Sweden is unique compared to many other countries thanks to the education system that we have – or that we have had and are in the process of rebuilding. We cannot forget that Komvux has been under bourgeois attack, one might say, for many years but is now being rebuilt. Why is it important to ensure that Komvux becomes a right? It is important at a time like this, when new arrivals come, to bring in those people who may be in the upper-age upper secondary school in Komvux, as is being done in some municipalities today. It is also important for those who may not have complete grades to be able to study their grades and apply for a program. It's important for a number of reasons. You shouldn't have done everything right when you're 15 years old. You should be able to even when you're 20 or 30. This means that the right to komvux is important, and we are proud to be involved in implementing it today. In view of this, I support the proposal contained in the report.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-949	Madam President and the members of the committee. A fairly certain sign that it is painted against Christmas is, after all, the Committee on Education's budget debate. I like it almost more than Kalle Anka, I guess I'll have to admit. We do not always agree with each other on the substance, we sometimes have different opinions and we definitely have different priorities in our draft budgets. But this is a debate in which we often meet in a common desire to do more of what provides the greatest possible school development. The government's idea is an equal school where all students get an honest chance. We therefore give priority to ensuring that all children receive support if they are found to need extra support. We strengthen the attractiveness of the teaching profession and make special efforts for those schools that have the toughest conditions. These are investments that need to be costed. In our draft budget, therefore, we increase the appropriations for education by 5 billion compared with the bourgeois budget motion voted on a year ago. Thus, school investments are about 3 billion more than in, for example, the Moderate Budget Movement. After all, this is not an opportunity to just throw numbers at each other. During the year I have met leaders and representatives of the teaching profession in all of Sweden's municipalities. I feel a sincere desire to work together, regardless of the political colour of the municipal leadership, to ensure that teachers and principals have the best conditions to fulfil their assignments. It's time for joint responsibility. Someone elseism will never help Swedish school. Three conclusions are clear to me, and I would like to use today's debate to explain something about how they are recognised in the government budget. Firstly, any reform must have the aim and consistency to strengthen the ability of the profession to do its job. The OECD states in its in-depth study of the Swedish school system that we have a strong profession with highly educated teachers and principals who have both the will and the capacity to fulfil their mission. But while the profession is strong, the system is often too weak. The lack of joint responsibility has allowed teachers to devote more and more time to adapting to changing political directives rather than taking ownership of school development. The school debate has been far too much about things that make little or no difference to teachers' and principals' conditions. Therefore, our focus is to strengthen the attractiveness of the teaching profession, teachers' development opportunities and principals' pedagogical leadership. We need more people who want to become teachers and more who stay and develop in the teaching profession. Far too long teachers have evolved out of the profession rather than develop in the profession. In the budget, we are now investing 3 billion in increased teachers' salaries. Together with career services, this means that we clearly link wage and professional development and that all teachers who stay and develop with more responsibility can be considered for extra government wage initiatives. At the same time, we make investments for more time and better working environment. More are hired to give teachers more time for their work. This autumn, the Swedish school can recruit more than 4,000 new employees with government money. National school development programmes are developed that provide teachers with continuous, systematic and collegial training. The administrative workload is reduced. The number of national samples has already been reduced. And we are now starting digitalization. Secondly, we need to pool our energies in the system in order to meet the greatest challenges. Right now, teachers, principals and municipalities are rolling up their sleeves to give children whose first years have been in war and escape a new start. The OECD conclusion can be seen in lightning: Profession stands up, but the system provides too little support. Equality gaps, differences between schools are increasing, 4% of schools have received one third of newly arrived pupils. We agree to reverse this. All municipalities should be helped together in the reception of refugees. The schools that have the best conditions should be involved in doing the job. In Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö the rules are now changing so that more schools can participate in the reception. We quickly investigate regulatory simplifications to facilitate that work. Free schools with queue should receive new arrivals. Early support is particularly important. We see that we are getting better at giving good results for students who come to Sweden from other countries early in the school years. To build on that, we need to invest more in preschool. We invest jointly in smaller children's groups and strengthen professional leadership at preschool. We need to invest more in the early years. A read-write-count guarantee is worked out. The budget also shows investments to increase equality in the school system. Special funds are invested for the reception of newly arrived pupils. Compulsory mapping, so that a student can continue his/her knowledge journey based on his/her own conditions, is financed. Special investments are made in the educational infrastructure – leisure homes, school libraries, pupil health – which supports the teacher's work and is particularly important for a student who comes to school without the same amount from home. We invest in more special teachers but also in more basic special pedagogic skills of each teacher. An investment mentioned earlier is about a continuing education initiative that builds on what has been good with the Reading Lift and the Matte Lift and gives teachers in collegial collaboration the opportunity to develop their own basic tools in special education together with a trained special educator. Thirdly, school development must not be hindered by political stalemate. We can have so many debates about what was wrong or right with one school reform or another, but I think we have all come to the conclusion that no one wins when the school debate is ideologically held. Major school reforms pushed through the Riksdag by a weak majority are not the solution. They're part of the problem. That is why we have given the OECD study to a school commission where researchers and professionals have a mandate to propose, together with a parliamentary reference group, what they consider necessary in order to build a strong, equivalent school system. We are prepared to lift all stones without ideological bonds. It deserves Swedish school. Through collaboration for the best school, which is included in the budget, the state, the Swedish National Agency for Education, can conclude agreements with principals on school development in schools that have had weak results for a long time. When a school year after year does not give students the skills they need, we must work together on the methods we have seen working to lift a school. This is the biggest change in the state's relationship with the principals since the municipalisation and establishment of the School Inspectorate. Anyone who accuses the government of being weak for reform has every reason to study Collaboration for the best school – a proposal that, incidentally, is close to what Camilla Waltersson Grönvall has presented as a good proposal in this House. The first agreements have already been concluded. The schools and principals most in need are thus directly supported by the state in the development mission. Madam President, I would like We have many good examples in the Swedish school. Students meet and are challenged in their thirst for knowledge, may grow to become the adults they want to be. Teachers testify to meetings that spurred them and developed them together with their colleagues. Rectors take their educational leadership. Principals systematically build quality work and disseminate working methods. These are the good examples that need to be built into systems. All students – no matter where you live, which school you go to, whether you're a boy or a girl, how many books you have in the bookshelf at home, if you're new or horribly old, should get an honest chance. That is our joint responsibility. I would like to thank the Committee on Education and Training for their good cooperation towards this goal this year and to wish everyone, including those of you who are now coming to this House to vote, a really merry Christmas.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-977	Madam President, I would like I'll see how many questions I can ask the government. I've got four, and we'll see. I'll start with one at a time. Last time I failed when I didn't have time to ask the questions. I am glad that the Government is really nodding, and I see an inviting thought that we must work together. We must put the ideological things aside and look at what we can do together to make the Swedish school better. Regardless of who wins the 2018 election, there must be clarity. Gustav Fridolin mentioned the state responsibility. I'm wondering if he could elaborate on the matter a little. Responsibility will be meaningless if there are no clear guidelines and knowledge of the mandate. What can you do and what can't you do? I would like to hear a clarification. Then there was the question of the state veto. The Swedish Democrats have adopted a middle line between the government's planned proposals to be made and the proposal that exists today. Today, the municipalities have virtually no say. If Gustav Fridolin and the government get their proposal through, it is the municipalities that choose entirely. With the Swedish Democrats' proposal, there will be a middle line with a state authority, such as the Swedish School Inspectorate, which will still decide the cases, and a special authority that will decide on all these issues, where both units, both the free school and the municipal school, have the right to appeal. We can get a common line. The work is in progress, and the government hasn't put its foot down yet and showed us where you stand. For me, it is important that both bodies are tested in an equivalent way throughout Sweden. It would be nice to hear Gustav Fridolin's thoughts on this.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-982	Madam President, I would like I'll start with the last question. The government's line is that in the establishment of commercial free schools, free schools run for profit, municipalities should have a decisive influence. It is because we see, and certainly not always, examples where this type of establishment has increased the segregation of schools, and it has made it difficult for municipalities to build equal school systems. In that case, it is reasonable for municipalities to have a decisive influence on start-ups. The form we have talked about in the past – the question is being investigated – is about imposing a coercion that there must be a co-operation agreement. This is also something the OECD is calling for. Somewhere different school actors have to work together. Madam President, I am very pleased to note the strong demand of Stefan Jakobsson and many others to come together in school policy and to provide security for those who work in schools that school policy should last longer than terms of office. I said in my speech that the problem has not been that there have been too few reforms that have been pushed through parliaments by a weak majority. The problem has been that too many reforms have been implemented in school. If you are to be self-critical of the broad politics, you should not think that any individual party or even politicians who shut themselves in a room can find all the solutions themselves. Here too we must listen to the OECD, which says that the profession is one of the strengths on which we should build and that the profession should take leadership over school development. That's why we have the school commission construction. It is researchers and professionals who are given a free mandate to put forward the proposals they consider necessary and anchor them in politics, rather than, on the contrary, that politicians make up their own and then anchor it with those who work in school. I think that the profession should be allowed to lead school development, and that is why we are choosing a school commission to gather school development forward.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-987	Madam President, I would like I asked you a question about state responsibility. I did not get a proper answer to that question, so I repeat it without saying the whole question here. There's a misthinking. I think the question has fallen between the chairs. I ask Gustav Fridolin to take the question with him. He may already have a concrete solution today. It is incredibly important that all teachers who grade are trained and have ID. But the dilemma is that in many rural schools today there are not the right teachers for the right subject. There a student may have a Spanish teacher for a full year, but the teacher may not grade the subject because the teacher is not trained in the subject. In this case, the headmaster will give the grades. The problem is that 50 per cent of all Sweden's principals are not teachers and therefore do not have a licence, but they can be trained in anything. This is the wrong idea. If Gustav Fridolin does not have the key to a solution today, I would be grateful if something were presented in the future. It feels a little unserious that the teachers should fight a lot to get the ID, maybe have the students for a whole year, and then not be able to grade them. It doesn't feel serious about the students, especially with a principal who may never have had the class. That's where I want to hear a line of thought. The Swedish democrats are often accused of not having an integration policy. Now I will present a concrete proposal and see what Gustav Fridolin thinks about it. Carl Hamilton is one of the researchers who has written the book The Way Out of the School Crisis. They also work with studie.se. They work with the language Swedish and the subject in a single sweep. There is no such thing as history Swedish, physics Swedish or mathematics Swedish. You can't work with these things without actually reading the subject as well. It's a fresh new thought. Given that Sweden is a country in crisis, we must also give priority to school. The Swedish Democrats have previously opposed the removal of the subject of mother tongue. This is going to be a half way in between. How would Minister Gustav Fridolin see that we weave the mother tongue into subject Swedish, a new expression that doesn't really exist, where we read all three subjects at the same time?
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-994	Madam President, I would like It would be a version of what is today a right for pupils with a different mother tongue, often a different language from Swedish, namely the right to study guidance. While you receive teaching in Swedish in physics, chemistry or math, you will also receive study guidance where you will meet someone who will explain and can help you in your old school language. That help has proved to be very successful. It is a right in the legislation today, but many find it difficult to find study supervisors. We are trying to make it easier for students to have the right. Then there were questions about the ID. The new rules that come into play during Christmas mean that only qualified teachers are allowed to grade. If the teaching is done by an unlicensed teacher, the teacher must cooperate with a qualified teacher in order to be able to grade. In this way, it is guaranteed that each grade will in any case be put with the involvement of a qualified teacher. It also puts pressure on the principals to hire qualified teachers. Then there was the question of state responsibility. One of the basic reasons why we call in a school commission is that the division of responsibilities over school is unclear. There will always be a shared responsibility over school and even more about children's education. Parents have a responsibility. The school has a responsibility. Teachers and principals have responsibilities. The different levels of the political machinery have a responsibility. Free schools are responsible for their students. However, shared responsibility must not be an unclear responsibility. That is how things have become today. Anyone can stand anywhere in the school system and see a problem and think that someone should do something about that. Then you get some otherism, and it doesn't help Swedish school. That is why there must be a completely different, much clearer, responsibility between the state and the principal. That is one of the things that the OECD is calling for, and that is one of the things that the School Commission is going to put forward proposals on.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-998	Madam President, I would like I noted that the Minister for Education initially talked a little bit about Kalle Anka. Kalle Anka is interesting when you study the government. You will then unseemly think of the episode when Långben, Musse and Kalle are out on caravan holidays and climbing around without focus. Suddenly someone exclaims: But who really controls? We may well leave that unsaid at the moment, but it is obviously important that someone governs. We can also note that the debate has been about hitting the head in one way or the other on the question of who has invested the most money in krone and kren. If you study the research carefully, it is clear that resources are extremely important, but it is important to know what to do with the resources. I have personal experience of investing a lot of resources in the school as a municipal politician, but unfortunately I feel that the results have largely failed. I have learned the bitter lesson that you have to do the right thing and do the right thing and that it is important that you invest in the right things. Today, the encouraging news came that a few weeks on the school bench this summer gave us 1 300 ninth graders approved and qualified for upper secondary school, which represented 44 percent of all ninth graders taught in summer school. There's my connection to summer school. The government is betting $150 million. We Moderates want to see a doubling. How does the Minister of Education view this? Wouldn't that be well-invested crowns?
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1004	Madam President, I would like I have to admit that the Bearbuses were my favorites when I read Kalle Anka. If we are to continue the parallelity with the glimpse in the eye, I can say that these are the first things to think about when you read the bourgeois draft budgets. Investment after investment is stolen from school. The investments in student health are stolen by some party. The investments in specialist teachers are stolen by some other party. Investments in teacher's wages are stolen by three out of four parties. In addition, the Bearbuses used to be three, and sometimes I wonder if there are not so many alliance parties left by now. Now we've had enough fun with it. I think the Bearbuses can stay in the Kalle Duck newspapers and not get into the Riksdag. To the question of summer school! There is an investigation proposal from the comprehensive school inquiry that is about the summer school becoming compulsory. It is currently being consulted. In view of the very good results achieved by the school, I think it is a good suggestion. You know, expanding the money might sound good. The problem is that the state grant regulation is designed so that the money we have allocated is not sought. It is a very small part of the money that has been sought. These good results have been obtained anyway. That is why we have now extended the state subsidy regulation, so that it is possible to use this in all grades and at all times. Thus, the good results we have seen from the current system can be extended to more holidays and more grades. Then we look further at the comprehensive school inquiry's proposal that all schools should offer extra education for those who are at risk of not reaching the targets.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1008	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Education for that answer. It feels like the government is approaching the proposal we have for compulsory schooling that the municipalities should offer everyone. It is a way of achieving better results. At a time when we need to focus very much on knowledge but also have many new challenges, it is gratifying that we have an agreement in the area of migration that, among other things, means that we give free schools greater opportunities to meet the new arrivals. Free schools have been a resource from the very beginning since that reform was carried out. In the past, we have been able to rely on the Green Party as a safe free school friend. Now, with increasing dismay, we have been forced to note that the Green Party is part of political constellations that discuss municipal veto and question the free choice of schools. There are studies showing how many free schools had been granted a permit if a municipal veto had already existed today, and that is fewer. We had had even less opportunity to meet the new arrivals with a smaller number of schools. It is also with horror that I take note of ideas about bushing and other things, things that are closest to thinking about North Korea. Is it not time, Gustav Fridolin, that we develop the free choice of school and not phase it out? Shouldn't we consider it an opportunity to get out of a segregated residential area? Perhaps we should rather look at an opportunity for active school elections, where we provide our newly arrived resources in the form of interpreter support and other information.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1012	Madam President, I would like I'm having a little trouble with the North Korean reference. I also believe that Richard Nixon, who introduced bushing into the American school system to break segregation, would have had a very difficult time for that reference. We're going to have an equal school system where you have the opportunity to choose a school. In order to achieve this, support must be given to those schools that need it most, but something must also be done about the fact that some schools have only been there for those who have basically been in line since they were born. I think it's great that we now agree on how to do something about this for newly arrived students. It is very good that we are making this change, which means that even free schools with queues can help to receive new arrivals. Then many of the free schools ask for other systems, where it must not only be a queue that determines which students are received. If it is students themselves and not the parents who have discovered the school, they should also be able to go there. If you can only have queue as a selection basis, it will of course be very difficult for those schools to have a more mixed student composition. I understand that Camilla Waltersson Grönvall is sometimes horrified by the Green Party. It must be part of the political discussion. I am more dismayed by the examples we have seen of free schools using the system. The vast majority of free schools and free school companies really want to make a contribution, are passionate about education and would have no problems with the rules that we have proposed, among other things. But there have been actors who have not been serious, who have received tax money and passed them on to tax havens instead of letting them benefit the students. They have not contributed to the common through tax on their profits. We have also seen examples where students came to school in the morning and basically met with a note on the door where it said: Sorry, I emptied the school of money and conked the business. Good luck! I am appalled by this. And because of that, I would like to have new rules for the Swedish free schools.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1018	Madam President, I would like I would like to put a number of different questions to Minister Fridolin, particularly as a result of the change of line I had with a party colleague of his in committee, Jabar Amin, a few hours ago. Jabar Amin said in our line shift that the Alliance government had run in the wrong direction. Gustav Fridolin himself mentioned in his speech that we had had far too many different reforms and that they were forced by too small a majority in the Swedish parliament. In the debates that we had during the eight years when the alliance government led Sweden, there were both social democratic and environmental representatives who said that they broadly supported various reforms, such as the school law and other major reforms, but still said no because there was some small part that they disagreed with. Quite a few of those reforms I feel that both the Social Democrats and the Green Party are, for the most part, behind them. My question is: what reforms meant running in the wrong direction? I would like to have it further highlighted. I would also like to make a comment on retired teachers. In what way can we motivate them – attract is perhaps the wrong word – to continue to contribute with their great professionalism in the Swedish school in different ways? There has been a reduction in employers' contributions. Are there other things you can see? Could there be exceptions to the rule that is now being implemented? Can further motivation be given?
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1021	Madam President, I would like When I make the description that there have been too much reforms that have been pushed through Parliament with very weak majorities and that it has affected the school, I would like to point out that it is a description that is about the school debate in recent decades, not just about what happened during the time of the alliance government. Ever since municipalisation, which was actually the decision that broke with the tradition that school decisions had quite broad majority and support in the teachers, we have seen that kind of decision over and over again. We can all discuss which of them was right and which were wrong, but all in all, these major reforms have created a school system with a very unclear responsibility. The unclear responsibility means that teachers and principals often feel powerlessness in the face of problems and do not really know who to turn to in order to bring about change. It is a joint analysis that we do. Then we have some different suggestions on how to change that. The joint analysis has all come to the conclusion that the school reforms made since the early 1990s and onwards have led to a school system with a highly fragmented responsibility. That's what my description goes back on. I was asked which reforms were running in the wrong direction. There is one thing I can point out when asked about it. You hear that I am rather calling for consensus and willingness to do things together. But I think it was a little too many changes that led the student to make early choices that risked limiting the choices he or she has the right to make as an adult. I thought that was going the wrong way. The conditions for reading in Komvux were reduced, and the conditions for upper secondary school were changed; that is the question Aida Hadzialic returns to. Some of the systems relating to the choices made in primary school run the risk of limiting the choices made as an adult. I thought that was going the wrong way. I believe that there is a self-critical agreement from many of those who participated in the decisions from alliances, just as I believe that previous governments and also environmental partners have made some decisions that can make things wrong.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1025	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Gustav Fridolin, for your answer. Instead of saying that you are running in the wrong direction, the Minister of Education says that on certain issues you could go in the wrong direction. The issues he mentions are those that in various ways have been up for discussion and, as Gustav Fridolin says, will be discussed later, but that also applies to other parts. It is a balance between freedom of choice and that everyone is forced to make the same compulsory choice. I can wish that the school could have a greater measure of choice, but it might not have the effect mentioned by Gustav Fridolin, which we have seen as unfortunate to some extent. The question I did not have time to ask is about the retired teachers, how they can be motivated to remain. We know how important it is for their professional skills to benefit young people, not least many of our new arrivals, for example in the field of language learning. I had the privilege of listening in committee the other day to a State Secretary who highlighted the need for Swedish II teachers. We know that there are many with a great deal of expertise in this area. I would very much appreciate it if the Minister would dwell a little on this issue. Then there are a couple of parliamentary decisions on ten-year primary school, more math and so on. It is a bit unfortunate when the government does not listen to Parliament in the way I would like it to do with these issues. I would also like to have highlighted that. I would therefore like to hear a little more about how we motivate and enable older teachers to stay and receive a comment on the decisions of the Riksdag. I believe that the Minister shares our view of the need for a really good school as well as that more mathematics and sport are important both for pupils' health and for pupils' learning.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1030	Madam President, I would like When it comes to the issue of using retired teachers in school, I fully share Ulrika Carlsson's assessment. We must use that resource much better. Many pensioners now choose to go back to school, take a new teacher's job or a substitute job, since they see that there is an effort to make. Sometimes it is described as that the school is at a very challenging stage, but it can also be exciting to participate in it. Then it feels fun to go back to school. Right now, an investigator is looking at how we can promote that opportunity for retired teachers, if there are rules we can change, if we can build different systems to promote it. There are a lot of schools that do in different ways. Not so long ago, I was at a school that has chosen to use the reduction in employers' contributions that exists for pensioners and that will remain, even if it becomes slightly smaller. We have different levels of it, but there will be such a reduction. Some use it as a premium for the pensioner who chooses to continue working or chooses to return to school. It's a model that schools can use. As for the question of listening to the Riksdag, yes, we will listen to the Riksdag. Then politics does not work in the sense that we have a situation where Parliament makes an announcement and the next day it is a reality. It is even so sometimes that when the government makes proposals and they go to Parliament to be implemented, it takes some time. The proposals put forward by the opposition are taken in, we take them into account, we hold talks on them in many cases. It is clear that we should listen to the Riksdag and return in accordance with the rules that exist to handle announcements. As far as the hourly plan is concerned, I look forward to continued and fruitful discussions on it, but we should know that in many schools, one is currently at a stage where it is important to manage to give high quality teaching based on the hours they are already required, and that with great teacher shortage and many more students. We must include this as a common statement of reality when we take responsibility for it.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1034	Madam President, I would like I want to go where Ulrika Carlsson left off. If the Government has received a clear signal from the Riksdag that we want a ten-year primary school and then continue to pursue a policy that does not lead to it, one naturally wonders what lies behind all the speeches about broad majority, that we should cooperate as much as possible and that we should find each other. It cannot be a question of us only working together when it fits into Gustav Fridolin's template, but everyone should be able to give. I was surprised at that answer. Madam President, I would like I took note of the Kalle Duck equation. No one has yet come to resemble Gustav Fridolin to Oppfinnar-Jocke-Jocke. I'm sure that's because there aren't many ideas in the Department of Education. There are quite few proposals for reform, and I think that is a problem. It is quite clear that more reforms are needed to lift Swedish schools. One of the things that the OECD has raised – and I take this to heart from the Alliance – is that we should have put together the reforms that we did in a broad package so that the direction had become clear. I therefore come back to the question of whether there is an idea behind the government's school policy. Now the Government has talked about an equal school and that everyone should have the same chance. Few are opposed to any of this. As a result, there is neither power nor trait in it. I would like to keep to what Ulrika Carlsson mentioned. A representative of the government parties has been standing here for a few hours and saying that we in the Alliance have been destroying the Swedish school for eight years. Then the Government says we should work together. What is the signal that the Green Party and the government really want to send? We cannot reasonably work together just on things that are Gustav Fridolin's views. You cannot saw the Alliance along your ankles and then say: Now you will work with us on the idea that we have.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1038	Madam President, I would like As regards the ten-year primary school, we agree that a ten-year primary school will be implemented, in that we will have ten mandatory years in Swedish school. There is a comprehensive school inquiry looking at different forms of it. We have set up a reading-write-count investigation to ensure that no matter how we organize the first year, what today is called preschool class, there should be a much more equivalent follow-up of reading, writing and counting in that part. We also have a proposal from the Swedish National Agency for Education about a curriculum for preschool class so that even before we get that far we can get an increased equivalence across the country. We're working on it. I do not know if there are any conflict issues left, except that I understand that at least the Liberals do not want preschool teachers to be qualified to work for the first year. I have to admit, I'm having a bit of a hard time understanding that. Preschool teachers are academically trained and experts in small children's learning. When they work with primary school teachers, as they often do in the preschool class, it means that they fertilize each other in a good way. I cannot see how pre-school teachers could be disqualified from being qualified to do the work they are doing today. If there are other issues of conflict, I look forward to responding to them. We prepare the comprehensive school inquiry's proposals in due course. I get a little confused when Christer Nylander defines a good idea. He thought that our idea of an equal school, where all students get an honest chance, doesn't really have power. A good idea is an idea that many are against. That'll be the definition, Christer Nylander. Not many people are against the idea, so there will be no power in it. Overall, I think that we have had a little too many ideas that have been pushed through in the Swedish school, and many at school have been against them. This has been the case for a long time. I described earlier that there has been such a development in the Swedish school debate for a long time. I think good ideas need teachers and principals with them.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1042	Madam President, I would like We are dealing with a budget that has a fairly small majority in Parliament. Is that wrong? I think that Gustav Fridolin and the red-green majority in Parliament think it is right to do so because they think their budget is right. But it is a rather narrow majority. I would like to question that decisions should only be taken on the basis of how broad a consensus there is. The important thing must reasonably be whether it is right or not, whether it leads to more knowledge in school or not, whether it leads to more people wanting to become teachers or not, whether we equip teachers better for Swedish school or not. That must be the fundamental question. Then you have to try to gather as much support for this idea as possible in politics, but to assume that you should only do things that everyone agrees on will not lead anywhere. The most important thing must be that reforms lead the right way and raise the level of knowledge. I am quite pleased that the then People's Party, the current Liberals, took an ideological battle over school politics a few decades ago. If we hadn't, Swedish schools would have looked completely different. What has then happened is that many have adapted to us. A lot of people sound like us. Even the Minister for Education sometimes sounds like the old Minister for Education, and I think that is a good thing. But the difference is that we also had a clear reform agenda in order to raise knowledge outcomes. I want to go back to the question that Ulrika Carlsson asked: Does the Government share the view that the Alliance destroyed Swedish school, drove it to the bottom and increased inequality? Why, then, does the government now want to cooperate with the Alliance on exactly the same policy?
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1048	Madam President, I would like We would have liked to have gathered broader support for our budget. We've invited you to that kind of conversation, and the Liberals know that the door is open. I get several times from Christer Nylander the accusation that the government does not have a reform agenda in the school field. Let us then describe how we want to achieve the goal of an equal school where all students get an honest chance. The first is early support. The most important reforms are: smaller children's groups in preschool, compulsory preschool class, reading-write-count guarantee from preschool class to grade 3, more employees in the previous years – currently more than 4,000 employees are employed for the early years in the municipalities – systems with more specialist teachers and more basic special pedagogy skills among all teachers. The second is the increased attractiveness of the teaching profession. It's about increased teachers' salaries – we'll invest 1.5 billion you next year and then 3 billion annually to make sure that all teachers who stay and develop in the profession are eligible for a government wage investment. In addition, we will ensure that the teachers' work situation is improved by reducing the administrative workload, reducing the number of national tests, digitising and providing principals and principals with support in reducing workloads. We will ensure that we have a continuous training programme for teachers through national school development programmes. The third is an equal school. It's about investing in the schools that are the toughest. Through Collaboration for Best School, the state is now concluding agreements with individual principals on school development in individual schools. This is the biggest change in the state's relationship with the principals since the municipalisation and establishment of the School Inspectorate. We invest in the educational infrastructure, which makes it easier for teachers and students to meet – such as recreation centres, special teachers, pupil health and school libraries. Is this enough? No, actually, I don't think that's even enough. It is a major reform agenda, but it is not enough. We have to work at two speeds. That is why, at the same time, we are in a situation where we have called for a school commission, where the profession and research have a mandate to make proposals.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1054	Madam President, I would like I thought I'd lift my eyes a little bit and get up in my old age something. I thought I'd focus mainly on upper secondary school. Drastic, unexpected and unorthodox solutions to difficult problems are also called alexander hem. What if it was as simple as in the world of fairy tales? There are plenty of Gordian knots and challenges in today's high school. Gy 11 has brought many improvements in many areas and updated school teams and curricula, but we too, of course, realise that there are still a lot of problems. Fortunately, I think we have a common understanding of what those problems are. I would like to say that the biggest challenge in society right now, if we just for a moment ignore the acute and current refugee crisis, is the 14 000 – 15 000 pupils who drop out of high school each year, either prematurely or without a degree. These individuals are burdening society, or any way you want to put it, with enormous amounts during their lifetime. It has been calculated that it is about 15 to 20 million per individual. Added to this are human sufferings and shortcomings. There are no incentives for municipalities to invest away this problem. That is why I think we need to think about another financing model for Swedish schools. Then there are the big drop-outs from not least the professional programmes. They have been described by the current government as if they started in 2011 – 2012, but in fact we see that they started in 2008. Then we ignore the fact that the really big drop-out came in the early 2000s, when the two-year vocational school was converted into a three-year-old. But, of course, we agree that everyone should go to high school for three years. We also see declining results in upper secondary school, which of course causes problems for future higher education studies. Although we have a budget debate now, I believe that much of the problems can be addressed with simpler solutions. No new money needs to be made available to certain areas. No laws need to be changed. In a few words, I think we need to de-dramatise – then I think about the school elections ahead of upper secondary school – popularize, generalize, broaden and, above all, inform more and prepare the pupils of upper secondary school, so that they can make better choices for upper secondary school. Here it is of course gratifying that the government has chosen to prioritise upper secondary school. There is even a minister of his own for the area now. The previous government set up a professional programme inquiry, which has now submitted its report. I hope it will be well treated. There are some good proposals there: industry schools, mandatory prao and a number more. There are also a few questions about upper secondary school that are worth raising. There are signals from the government that they want compulsory university qualifications on all programmes. I do not think that those who feel tired at school or are focused on their professional programme are more motivated by being forced to enter higher education qualifications. There are suggestions that one should be able to opt out of it. We also know that the business community is calling for no points to be removed from the professional programmes, because then it will be half-baked carpenters or vvs: are coming out of high school. So this is not the way to go. Maybe I'll come back with some little thought of a solution. Of course, we need to strengthen education. There is a need for incentive-building measures. We need to improve workplace learning. We also need to ensure that the skills of the companies receiving students are improved. Overall, the economic and social partners need to get more into the whole upper secondary school, especially in vocational programmes. Here, we Moderates have proposed by today that we design a new introduction program where we combine language introduction and career introduction. It could be a model to get more people through high school. It is also, of course, a question of strengthening the SYVs and ensuring that this is not a low-status profession among teachers, as is often the case today. We must raise the status of professional teachers and also review their pay. We also need more modern school research on upper secondary school. I wonder how the government views itself with more senior lecturers, because that is the best connection to modern school research. We must admit that there have not been as many senior lecturers as we hoped through the career reform. Finally, if my moderate colleagues allow me to think a little freely and bigger: I think you should think about reviewing the grades, the syllabuses, the upper secondary school in upper secondary school. I think it's very negative for many students, not least the girls in grade 2. I myself have raised this issue in the Gymnasie inquiry and I am pleased to have brought with me all the parties, now also the Liberals. One could consider strengthening cooperation between the region's upper secondary schools, perhaps even regionalising them in a future, and also strengthening cooperation with the region's higher education institution. I think it's a win-win situation. I have a number of other concerns about the higher education programmes and also the professional programmes, that perhaps they should be changed in order to ensure that a number of students get their vocational qualifications earlier than they get today. But I will come back to that, perhaps in another debate. We have great challenges today. But it is nothing compared to the challenges that I believe we will be standing here in five ten years' time to talk about, we or our successors, given the current refugee situation. However, with the spirit of respect for each other's views that we have in the Education Committee, I am confident that we will succeed in doing so.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1072	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved. Education for adults is available in many different forms. This is done, for example, through education in educational associations and folk high schools, in municipal adult education, in vocational adult education and through studies in polytechnics. Adult education is important in order to provide a necessary basis for work or platform and eligibility for further studies, in short give a second chance to read, a way out of unemployment, an opportunity to acquire a new qualification or a new vocational training. But adult education is also an educational pathway to increase personal freedom, stretch its borders, discover new knowledge, see new contexts, make new choices and meet impressions, people and knowledge that you have never met before. Adult education is a necessity in a modern knowledge society where knowledge and competence are constantly changing and evolving as society, Sweden and the world change. Our view is that education should be accessible to all throughout life. This requires an extension of adult education. This is how unemployment can be broken and more people can gain access to the labour market or to further studies. Mr President, I would like to The Government proposes this in the budget proposal: a welcome and powerful expansion of different parts of adult education – a knowledge boost for Sweden. The government proposes to allocate funds equivalent to 9 200 training places in addition to the 10,000 places in Komvux and the professional adult which have already been announced in the spring 2015 amending budget. The initiative allocates more than 4,000 new seats to professional adult 2016 and 5,000 seats in 2017. The government also announces that a right to eligibility courses in Komvux will be introduced in 2017, which will give even more adults the opportunity to complete upper secondary school skills. The government also proposes an increase in the number of places in the university of applied sciences, the form of education that has shown very good results in matching job seekers with the needs of the business community. It provides people with opportunities for professional competence, and training is based on the specific needs of the industries. The courses are conducted all over Sweden, from small towns to larger cities. Every training is added and developed in collaboration with the different industries, and its efficiency is very high. Nine out of ten students have work the year after graduation, many in the field of education. The problems of the University of Applied Sciences have not been about inefficiency or poor education. Instead, it has been that the places have been too few and that too few courses have had to start. Education and training requested by industry, which is of high quality and provides jobs, has not been allowed to start, has not been granted seats or has even been allowed to stop because of too few training places. This is why the government is now proposing a substantial expansion of the number of seats with approximately 2 500 seats in 2016 and 6 000 seats from 2017. More people will be given the opportunity to acquire a qualified professional competence. Labour market policy includes initiatives that combine education with work and practice. These efforts are also part of the government's policy for a new knowledge boost. The education contract aims to enable unemployed young people aged 20 to 24 to start or return to study, with the aim of completing upper secondary education in, inter alia, Komvux. Within the framework of the contract, it should be possible to study full-time, but it should also be possible to combine part-time studies with, for example, work or internship. Mr President, I would like to Anyone who knows me a little more knows that I am a little more passionate about people's education, which I think is a great tool for raising awareness among people and providing meeting places where together with others in a democratic and equal way get the opportunity to become an even stronger and more active citizen of society, regardless of the background and regardless of the content of the personal backpack. For many people, the pedagogy and way of working is a new opportunity to pass the education that society requires us to have today, and for many of our new arrivals, people education is a fantastic way into Swedish society and into working life. This is why the government's efforts both on the study associations' Swedish from day one and on the increase in the number of places on general and special courses at the folk high school but also on the study-motivating courses are so good. Finally, education and learning opportunities with others should be accessible to everyone throughout their lives. The government's knowledge transfer represents a significant increase in ambition in terms of increased numbers of places and higher quality in education for adults. It is investments that open doors to work or further studies and that make Sweden as a country stronger.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1084	Mr President, I would like to I will do as everyone else does, starting by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved. There are not many other choices but to do so. I am going to raise the issues of universities and colleges, the section of the budget proposal that deals with these issues. We all know the value of well-developed university and university activities and also the research part of it. We highlight the fact that we have a good infrastructure for channelling people into higher education and then investing in research. It is a question of having a balance in it and ensuring that there are opportunities for people with ambitions to emerge. Perhaps the research component is what we really need to invest in in the future in order to match the demands and needs of the labour market and the business world. There are a number of such initiatives, such as working with the welfare sector. When it comes to school and care, I think we have the investments needed to really match this. We have a shortage of highly trained staff in those sectors. Of course, other things can also come in. In terms of climate and environmental technologies, I believe that there are a number of different areas that we will be able to invest in in order to achieve a better match with the future labour market. These are the things that will be important for us to be at the forefront as a country in developing these things. It is our chance to do so, to develop the new labour market that is there. Perhaps, above all, I think that the welfare sector is something we need to invest in, because there are shortcomings there today. Deficiencies have been created over the years, and we need to make it work. In the bill that we have put forward together with the government, there are good ambitions in terms of meeting the needs that will exist in the future. There is an increased number of places at universities and colleges, so that we get more students. We will be able to invest in getting more professionals eventually through this way of investing in it. I think it is important to have these high ambitions in the future in order to have a well-functioning school business all the way. Many have dealt with the problems and solutions that we have to find in primary, secondary and so on. But when it comes to the further development of the labour market and the business world, and when it comes to our ability to create good development in these areas, colleges and universities must also operate very well. I would like to point out a couple of things that may be something we need to think about and perhaps put extra effort into. If you look at equality when it comes to universities and colleges, there is still a lot to be done. I am thinking, above all, of career paths. Today, there is an overall overweight of women among students. I think it's 60% women and 40% men. But if you come to doctoral level – that is, the career path up – it has turned around. More men than women are PhD students. This is something that we need to work on to provide the conditions for more women to get higher up on the career ladder. Another thing that is very important today and also in the future is validation. Today we have quite a few new Swedes who are well educated and who, with help quite quickly and quite cheaply, compared to other roads, can enter Swedish working life and help create new welfare. Finding these faster routes and investing in validation to bring in the people who are currently seeking to Sweden and give them room to enter the Swedish labour market is a very important part and perhaps the part that we need to look at in particular. Those who are well educated, learn Swedish, who can receive supplementary education and a validation of the education they have, we can get directly into the labour market. There are many examples. I saw today an article about Gävle Hospital. 50% of those working there are immigrants, and they have come in quite quickly. It's a resource we're going to take care of. That is why I think it is these parts that we should invest most in. Otherwise, I think that what is in the bill and which we have negotiated with the government shows a good ambition, and I think we will see a good development in this area in the future.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1095	Mr President, I would like to The fact that more people are working is crucial for us to gain more knowledge in school and higher quality in education at all different levels. We can have as much tax as we want, but if no one works, there will still be no money for school, research or for anything else for that matter. We all, each of us, also need to work for our own sake. Of course, it can be especially important sometimes. If, for example, you have not received the help and support you need in high school, if you have dropped out and are weighed down by the feeling that you have failed or if you have tried to get a job and continued to live at home for one, two and perhaps three years and become increasingly isolated and outside, then the need for a job is greater than ever. If you have fled half the world, left everything behind, had endless sleepless nights, have more questions than answers and have finally had the opportunity to stay in Sweden and learn Swedish, if you have studied as only the one, but lack both upper secondary education and professional skills that can be validated here and if you have three children to take care of and support and would very much like to give them Christmas gifts even this Christmas, then the job is more important than ever. Even if you really would like to have a job here and now, any one, it is difficult in Sweden without a high school education. It is difficult even if you have upper secondary school education, if it is not a vocational upper secondary school education as it becomes somewhat easier. Here you can also get the chance. In this way, jobs and education are linked. Without work, we do not fund education, and without some training it is very difficult to enter the labour market in Sweden. For those of you who do not want, or can, study three to five years further after high school and need a job here and now and for those who need internships to get in touch with employers, vocational training at Komvux is almost the only option. Three out of four people studying vocational training in Komvux have a job a year after they're done. Unfortunately, we do not see such figures for adult education in general. For you to become one of them, you need to have a place of education. The responsibility for this lies with the municipalities. But in order to be sure of this, we in the Moderates have financed through government funding a permanent increase in the number of places in the profession specifically because we know that it gives results and opportunities for a job. We are spending 1.34 billion by 2019, and 500 million next year, on this. It is gratifying that the government is making almost the same effort on this. We have 1 000 seats more than the government next year, and in the long term there are 13 000 more seats. We have also proposed, as I have already said in the debate on student aid, which we call the conversion package. There are four concrete measures and fully funded proposals to enable older people to study. This, in combination with a strengthened right for older people to study in adult education, we believe is the right way to go, not only for there to be places but also for there to be a real opportunity for older people to be able to afford education. Jobs and education go hand in hand. We in the Moderates see this link and the whole and, above all, how the whole education chain and the labour market are connected.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1105	Mr President, I would like to It was an exciting post, Ida Drougge. You talked a lot about work and education being connected. Of course they do, but your proposals do not show that you think so. The university of applied sciences, as I said earlier, is the form of education that has shown very good results in terms of matching job seekers with the labour market needs of the industries. It gives people the opportunity to acquire professional skills, and education is also based on the needs of the industries. Nine out of ten students at the university of applied sciences have, as I said, work the following year and many have it in the field that they have trained. We are now proposing more places to solve lack of professional problems precisely to match jobs with education. It is about 2,500 places in 2016 and 6,000 places in the coming years. Other parties in the former Alliance, except the Moderates, propose an extension of the number of seats. All parties are actually proposing an extension of the university of applied sciences, but not the Moderates. The Moderates don't want to expand it. You write in your budget exercise: that companies can recruit qualified specialists and professional skills is central to competitiveness and growth. At the same time, you say no to an extension that could actually enable what you are talking about, that is, jobs and education. Why?
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1111	Mr President, I would like to In the Moderates we are not against there being more places for the University of Applied Sciences. We certainly are not. It was us and the alliance government that introduced it, and the university of applied sciences has been a huge boost for many people and enables more and more people to enter the labour market. That's where we're in complete agreement. In fact, I am glad that Gunilla Svantorp and the Social Democrats are now seeing this. However, we have chosen to prioritise other things in our budget this year. Above all, we have chosen not to increase taxes on jobs and companies – the jobs and companies Gunilla Svantorp here says they want to protect and support. If you increase the tax on jobs and for entrepreneurs, you still don't have the chance and the opportunity to hire all the people they want. This is also related to study funds. Many older people are studying at the university of applied sciences, and there are many older people who are reading who we believe need to study more and more. However, they have a job today, and to be able to leave that job and further train themselves, they need financial space. They have a greater responsibility, such as children, and greater spending than a younger student has. We get that in our conversion package, which is something you completely omit, Gunilla Svantorp.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1114	Mr President, I would like to I have to remind you a little bit about the history of the University of Applied Sciences, Ida Drougge. Sure, you have introduced what you call a university of applied sciences, but there was actually something before that. It was called qualified vocational training and was somewhat similar, albeit to a much smaller extent. But it is clear that we in the Social Democrats would certainly also have developed this if we had been allowed to continue ruling after 2006. So you didn't come up with the polytechnic thing, Ida Drougge. I would absolutely like to protest against that. On the other hand, you renamed it a university of applied sciences. You're not against more places in the university of applied sciences, and you want a lot. But you don't spend any money on it. That's the difference. We'll show you what we want to do. We want to match those who are unemployed with those who have a job they may not like and who want to move on in life. We must therefore be given the opportunity for what I talked about before, that is, lifelong learning. It's about being able to come back and do new things. This calls for training places, which is why we give priority to training places.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1116	Mr President, I would like to I'm a little surprised. We stand here and represent two different parties, and we have tabled two different draft budgets. Yet Gunilla Svantorp seems surprised that we choose to prioritise different things. For example, we have chosen to give priority to more places at professional level than the government. We have chosen to give priority to this. We have also chosen to prioritise increasing the funding of studies for the elderly and increasing their opportunities for additional loans. We want to make it possible for older people to study longer and higher up in their age, as well as to read more study weeks. We have chosen to give priority to this. So we choose to give priority to different things. As I said before, the Social Democrats have chosen to increase the tax on businesses, jobs and young people's employment opportunities more than we have done.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1119	Mr President, I would like to Sweden should be a leading nation of knowledge, and our ambition must be to have the world's best school. Something else should and cannot be content with. I'd like to say that, in fact, good is not good enough. This requires us to turn the results of knowledge for the better. We must ensure that all schools become good schools, and we must ensure that education leads to jobs. Every student should know and not least feel that the Swedish school leads to one's dreams being realized. It's about dreams of learning, knowledge and creativity. It's about dreams of being able to educate yourself to what you really want to be and dreams of being able to get a profession you want. It's about dreams of a certain life. The parents' educational background or class background should not be in the way of the dream of a better life. Swedish education should also be characterised by the idea of lifelong learning and the possibility of transition in the labour market. In an ever-changing global economy, we must ensure that labour market adaptability is good. For this is absolutely crucial for our competitiveness, for our growth and for our welfare – but also ultimately for our standard of living. Mr President, I would like to My portfolio covers a wide range of subjects, and I would like to focus on three points in this speech. Firstly, I would like to talk about why and how more people should choose vocational education and training, especially at the upper secondary level. Secondly, I would like to talk about how we are building capacity and reforming adult education in order to strengthen the adaptability of the labour market. Thirdly, I would like to talk about how the establishment of newcomers both in society and in the labour market should take place more quickly. Mr President, I would like to Vocational training leads to jobs. Many industries are now on their toes to make new jobs. It is visible in industry, care and one, construction, catering and more. The Confederation of Swedish Enterprise says that entrepreneurs fail in every fifth recruitment attempt because they do not find workers with the right qualifications. In this situation, we also see that fewer and fewer students choose the upper secondary school vocational programme. The trend has been downward for many years, and with its hands on its heart it was also during previous Social Democratic governments. However, the downward trend has intensified dramatically in recent years, following some reforms that were implemented and had a negative impact. The following can also be said: if we are to manage the supply of skills in the labour market while at the same time breaking youth unemployment, we need to get more younger people to choose precisely vocational training. Then we need to ask ourselves what needs to be done to strengthen the attractiveness of these training courses. Firstly, we believe that the image of vocational training needs to change. We must ensure that all young people feel that professional programmes are a key option for them too. Professional programmes should not just be a separate option for some, which is the situation at the moment. The Government has therefore initiated a collaboration with the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and Industry and LO to make 2016 the year of vocational education and training. Cooperation is important, especially because we need to build up the status of professional programmes together. Secondly, the government is investing in giving more people the opportunity to become qualified professional teachers. Vocational teachers will be covered by the Government's investment in higher teacher salaries, and we will spend money to strengthen the interaction between school and the labour market. Study and career guidance is also strengthened. Mr President, I would like to Of the working age population, 850 000 people lack complete upper secondary education, of which 320 000 are aged 20 - 34. There are very many people whose chances in life and, above all, in the labour market are very limited. We also know that unemployment is twice as high in this group as in those with upper secondary education. Against this background, the government proposes that everyone be given the right to complete high school through a right to komvux. It's a historic reform the government has delivered. Today, the ability to study upper secondary school skills depends entirely on the place where you live. A right to komvux will also mean that you will be given the opportunity to enter basic and special qualifications to university, college and university of applied sciences. However, the government also invests in vocational adult education and college of applied sciences. We do this because we want it to be easy to move from a theoretical education or a job to a more practical profession. Through this capacity expansion we follow the motto: If you have no education, if you have the wrong education or if you have an old education, you should get the right education that makes you employable. I would like to draw Parliament's attention to the fact that it is adult education that in many ways, without us always seeing it, has made the Swedish labour market as well-functioning as it is. Studies and international comparisons show that one of the reasons why we managed the financial crisis as well as we did in 2008– 2009 was that we had a well-functioning adult education that enabled people to change. When industries disappear and industries come, people must be able to requalify themselves in order to take the jobs that actually exist. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to say a few words about the government's efforts to speed up the establishment of new arrivals. Last spring we pressed the start button for what we call Swedish from day one. The asylum seekers should now be given the right to learn Swedish even during the period of asylum through our study associations. The impact has already been enormous. We see that about 50 000 people will have been covered by this until the end of the year. This is important because the Swedish language is the key to society. Last spring, the Government also presented a proposal to the Riksdag to make SFI more personalised. The government is now following it up by enabling SFI students to combine language teaching with vocational training. We believe that this will lead to more people getting into work faster. One particular difficulty that I would like to admit to Parliament and with which we will all be faced in the future is the recruitment of SFI teachers. It's a problem that's been around for a very long time. It is not a shortcoming that we have before us, but the situation needs to be addressed. As a first stage, the government has set aside 100 million a year to recruit, but also to enable more people to become qualified SFI teachers. As a welcome innovation, I can say that in principle all places are filled for supplementary education. Mr President, I would like to The government has great ambitions for the school but also for the labour market. We shall increase employment, repress unemployment and ensure that the supply of skills works well. Education is the key to this. It is through future investments like these that we will build on the strong and successful Sweden we have. It is basically the Swedish model.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1139	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for the dedicated presentation of the world's best school and how to get there. That is where my first question arises. How are we going to get there? The government speaks well of vocational training. Unfortunately, it's a late awakening. Mikael Damberg wrote in Svenska Dagbladet on 6 May 2011 that ninth graders are smarter than the government, because they end up in unnecessary dead ends of choosing the professional programmes. Aida Hadzialic writes in DN on 4 December that the bourgeois government took away university qualifications and that young people can perceive it as dead ends. I regret that statement of reality. It has been possible to study university qualifications on all professional programmes right from the start. It is very sad when you help to blacken down the image of the professional programmes in that way and express themselves as if they were dead ends. I'd like to ask you a question linked to the right to komvux. If I heard correctly, you also have the right to enter the university of applied sciences. Did I get it right, that all Swedish citizens have the right to read any permission? This therefore applies both to general and special university qualifications and to the university of applied sciences. From what year should it be that everyone has this right to read? It is about everyone also getting the right to read all professional adult programmes, as far as I understand.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1143	Mr President, I would like to I should like to start by apologising for the length of my speech. I wasn't aware that we had the limit to 6 minutes, but then I'll know until next time. Ulrika Carlsson talks about the status of vocational training. I said in my speech that the problem of professional programmes has been a problem that we have been faced with for a very long time and also in previous Social Democratic governments. But the problem has intensified in recent years. I believe that much of this is because former bourgeois representatives have spoken of vocational training as something for those with lower motivation for study and almost as something for those who want nothing and can't. This stigmatization means that people do not want to be labeled that way. When it comes to higher education qualifications, it is said in theory that you can study the subjects needed for you to be eligible for higher education even if you choose a vocational programme. But we know that in practice it will be very difficult. Both studies and individual dialogues that I have had with students all over Sweden demonstrate this. Many say: In fact, I have chosen a professional programme because my school has laid down a schedule that still allows me to study university qualifications. If that had not been the case, I would never have chosen this education. We know that many reason in this way. They are opting out of professional programmes because they have become a dead end. It is something that the bourgeois government created and on which we must now turn.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1149	Mr President, I would like to I am disappointed that it is described as the alliance parties having spoken down education for people and talking about vocational training as something that does not apply to everyone. I don't recognize that picture. But if Aida Hadzialic has understood it that way, I am extremely sorry. When we talk about the fact that the problems have been intensified by the change linked to the professional programmes, it helps to say that it is a dead end. It never was. Schools have understood to make schedules that work. I am sorry if it has been made more difficult for students in schools where it does not work. But the schools where it works have facilitated this in various ways. My question is: how will this be changed when we say that there will be basic university qualifications in all professional programmes? Is it about removing the opportunity to immerse yourself in occupations, or where should you take the time from? Is the Social Democratic Government prepared to add additional time? I guess that's what you want. I do not think that business organisations appreciate a reduction in professional subjects in professional programmes. How would it be done to strengthen attractiveness? With general competence, there is a fairly small number of courses within higher education institutions and universities that you become eligible for. It is a question of having specific powers to access the vast majority of programmes. I will come back to my question, which I did not receive an answer to in the first line. Is the right to komvux about both general competence, specific competence and all professional programmes, i.e. eligibility for all universities of applied sciences programmes? Is that how I'm supposed to understand the minister's answer?
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1155	Mr President, I would like to I have not made up the fact that some bourgeois representatives have said that the professional programmes are an alternative for those students who have a little more difficulty in school and may not have the right study motivation. Those words have been expressed, Ulrika Carlsson. It is problematic, and we need to help change that picture. Therefore, I am very pleased that during 2016 we will work together with the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and LO to raise the status and brand of the professional programmes. As far as the right to komvux is concerned, the reform aims to give everyone the right to access both basic and specific qualifications based on the design of different courses at university, university and university of applied sciences.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1158	Mr President, I would like to Prior to the 2014 elections, the Social Democrats raised the issue of compulsory upper secondary school. However, they soon had to back down for practical reasons. How could they be forced to go to school, and what would be the sanction for those who did not go to school? Soon the government also realised that there was no parliamentary support for compulsory upper secondary school. Instead, the High School investigation was set up, which many of us are part of. The assignment to the Gymnasie investigation is to review how the dropout can be reduced and the throughput increased. I think it is difficult to talk about leaving high school without touching the issue of primary school. If you are to complete upper secondary school in the first place, the support must be put there. At the same time, Minister of Education Gustav Fridolin has appointed a school commission to raise knowledge in school. What does the minister of high school see as the main reason why the dropout is so great? Will the conclusions of the School Commission and the High School Investigation somehow relate to each other when we come up with some kind of result? I think they are closely linked.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1162	Mr President, I would like to I thank Annika Eclund for the questions. Let me start with the obligatory. The Social Democrats proposed the introduction of compulsory upper secondary school because we know how important it is for all pupils to complete upper secondary school. It is absolutely crucial for their chances in the labour market and in society as a whole. Now we have a situation where about a fifth of all students do not complete their schooling. That's a lot of people. Against this background, we proposed an obligatory. But after the elections, we realised what the parliamentary situation looked like in Parliament, and we are pragmatic. Just as Minister for Education Gustav Fridolin said, we want to find broad reforms that can last for a long time to come and create a solid foundation for the Swedish school. Then I am not prepared to propose a reform that creates unnecessary turbulence. Instead, I've set up an investigation to look at how everyone can complete high school. This includes a parliamentary committee so that we can get together across party and bloc boundaries. There are many reasons why students do not complete high school. It is about the teachers' work situation, that segregation at school has increased, that the teachers do not get the right conditions, that we have had a profit hunt, that the management chain has not worked, and so on. All these parts are attacking the government now to reverse the results of knowledge and ensure that all schools become good schools.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1168	Mr President, I would like to Let me continue on this track and ask the Minister for High School: independently of parliamentary support, did the Social Democrats really think it would be possible to introduce compulsory upper secondary school? I see it as impossible. However, we agree on wanting to increase throughput and reduce drop-outs from high school. I didn't get an answer to my question. You have appointed a school commission and a high school inquiry led by various parties. How will these relate to each other when we come to a conclusion? Let me also highlight what Michael Svensson took credit for, course grades. Many of us in the Gymnasie investigation have mentioned that this may be a major cause of the defection. If you do not pass a course in grade 1 or receive a bad grade, you can already be out, and this grade is included in the grade. It can also add to the stress of upper secondary school. I am aware that we introduced this in Gy 2011. But if it turns out to be a major cause of the defection, you should look at it. However, it is not included in the directives for the secondary school inquiry. When we lift this up, it is said that this will only be touched a little superficially. It would be nice to hear what the High School Minister thinks about this.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1173	Mr President, I would like to I am absolutely convinced that the reforms and efforts made by the government in this budget and intend to do in the future will lead to Sweden getting a better school and that the throughput will be better than today. We invest in more teachers and smaller school classes. We invest in equality by giving schools with the toughest conditions more resources. We invest in raising teachers' salaries and more. All of this is an important basis for our school to be better off in the future. There are some groups in school who need more support. Some aspects need a more in-depth analysis. That's why the Gymnasie investigation looks specifically at how we should do to get to students who may be bullied, have disabilities or for other reasons fail to complete their studies. What do we need to do to get them through school? The School Commission is tasked with looking at major structural issues relating to the governance chain, liberalisation and more. Annika Eclund knows very well that a government can conduct several different investigations and look at different issues. In the end, however, everything is harmonised. You don't do anything that's gonna run in all directions and edges. We are now looking at different issues, and our goal is, of course, to gather the different ideas and proposals and then present uniform policy products that will make the Swedish school better.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1178	Mr President, I would like to More young people want to become apprentices. Over 8,300 attend apprenticeships in upper secondary school, and this increases from year to year. That's very good. This means that more people get the chance to pass high school and more people get the chance to get a job afterwards. This also means that we improve labour market matching effectively. One might think that a workers' party thinks that apprentices are a good idea. It sounded almost like the Government thought that the bourgeoisie devalues vocational education, but when it comes to apprentices, it is the red-green government that devalues. And you keep doing that. The budget significantly reduces the remuneration of apprentices. A high school inquiry is being set up with a focus that has become more difficult and almost impossible to take an apprenticeship.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1182	Mr President, I would like to Christer Nylander! I believe that we agree that vocational programmes and training are generally important and that apprenticeships are an important part of vocational programmes. The government is making many investments in the budget to make the interaction between school and the labour market even better. We invest in professional colleges, we want to introduce industry schools and we also want to strengthen the conditions for apprenticeships, but we want to do so properly. The reason we have made a small cut in apprenticeships is that only 7 000 of the 30 000 seats that were budgeted were used last year. Studies and evaluations that have looked at the impact of the organiser grant have shown that it is not an incentive for traders to accept apprentices. What studies show is that it is collaboration, good dialogue and trained supervisors that are crucial for more entrepreneurs and employers to want to receive apprentices. Therefore, the government is now reorganising the grant so that those who have trained supervisors are rewarded, in order to strengthen the links between apprenticeships and the different workplaces where we want the students to operate. I think we have the same approach. I really want to emphasise that I believe in the form of apprenticeships, but I want it to be done in the right way and that we should give employers incentives to want to receive pupils so that together and in conjunction with the labour market we can ensure that more students get into work.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1188	Mr President, I would like to If the government believes that it is a good idea with more apprentices and notes that those who take apprenticeships in one year increase from 7 000 to 8 000, it is difficult to understand that it is concluded that it will make it more difficult to become an apprentice, have more theory, have higher education qualifications and lower remuneration. 10 000 SEK per student per year will not be small amounts, and this is believed to mean that more people will become apprentices. On the contrary, it is likely that fewer people will be tempted to become apprentices if you make it more difficult to be an apprentice. Fewer will be tempted to become apprentices if the compensation to be paid is reduced. This probably also means that fewer will succeed in upper secondary school because the apprenticeship year in vocational education gives students a chance to get very close to the labour market and get in good contact with an employer. I'm sure a lot of people get jobs where they've worked as apprentices. I find it surprising, Mr President, that the government chooses to make it more difficult for apprentices at a time when we need to make it much easier to become an apprentice.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1191	Mr President, I would like to The government is investing in increasing the salaries of vocational teachers. In addition to this, we are presenting an entire professional programme package of 67 million, which aims to ensure that more teachers are qualified. It is also about improving the interaction between school and the labour market, in various forms. Together with the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and Industry and LO, we are preparing the years of vocational education and training to strengthen the status and attractiveness of this form of education. We set aside resources to improve study and career guidance. All of this is done to ensure that professional programmes are a key option for everyone, not just a separate option for some. We think we need to look at university qualifications. Far too many studies but also students indicate that the deleted university qualifications are an obstacle to their choosing a dizzy program and that many see it as a dead end. I have proposed in a compromise that we should look at whether it is possible to make higher education qualifications the norm even for vocational programme students and that students who really do not want to read these subjects should be able to opt out of those pieces. I believe that this is an important psychological effect and that it is important for the quality of professional programmes. I very much hope that we can somehow find each other across the block, because it seems that we both think that professional programmes and vocational training are important. Perhaps we can put aside the prestige and think: What compromise can most people agree to in order to increase the attractiveness of these programmes?
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1198	Mr President, I would like to In his speech, the government stood and talked about dreams, not their own dreams, but students' dreams. By the way, now that I see my colleagues Ulrika Carlsson and Annika Eclund, perhaps I should apologize to them and correct what I said in my speech. You have come to the same conclusion as I have with regard to the subject marks. That's it. Students have dreams of moving forward in life from upper secondary school, among other things. It's possible that I'm wrong, but I don't think that's the way to go to ensure that everyone gets higher education qualifications. Although it is soon Christmas and we are going to be kind and kind to each other, I would like to say that I believe that the old, proud Labour Party of the Social Democrats has made a major contribution to the division of upper secondary school students into A and B students by stressing for many years hard that everyone must become an academic and that everyone must be able to enter college or university. I think this is the wrong way, but we can certainly find a good compromise on this. I have a good proposal that I would like to present at the time. I talked about the need to popularise education and inform and prepare students more, not least in high school. There are also some other roads. I am thinking, among other things, of YA jobs. Many young and foreign-born people work in Swedish trade, for example. Today, with the agreement that exists, one must be under 21 years old and have completed the commercial programme, at a Swedish upper secondary school as well. Only 26 people have been able to get jobs like that. I believe that these rules need to be relaxed in order to break the new exclusion. How does the Government view it?
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1206	Mr President, I would like to I must say that I am a little surprised at the reasoning on the bourgeois edge about university qualifications. A line is maintained that, despite obvious facts, is not being observed. Students opt out of professional programs because they are so wise that they realize that they want freedom of choice throughout life. They also recognise that the labour market will change and want the opportunity to requalify themselves. We all know that the economy of the future will be such that we will not have to change jobs just once or twice. It is often said that my generation and those even younger will have to change jobs ten times over the lifetime, and not only in the same industry but between different industries. Then it is very important to have an education system that allows us to change, and that is where higher education qualifications are important. As regards the YA jobs and the introduction agreements, we maintain the same model that applies at the moment. I think it is important that we maintain the Swedish model and labour law and ensure that the labour market continues to maintain a high standard, for it has been this that in many ways has built the Swedish economy as strong as it is.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1210	Mr President, I would like to We all share part of the problem picture, that fewer and fewer people are looking for professional programmes. It is an international trend, and we saw clear signs that it started in 2008. It may then be argued that the trend strengthened in 2011 and 2012. Then it is clearly problematic that the government's own party has representatives who together – I will be honest and say – with a number of SYVs in the country saying: It is a closed door to read the professional programmes. I have two young people in high school myself. They're in second grade and third grade. I agree with the debate on what is going on between high school students. It's sad when they get this information from adults that they trust and that they might see as their role models: It's not a good education. Don't pick it! I find that boring. I think we need to improve and inform in a completely different way. I have a few seconds left of my speech. Then I thought I'd ask you a question about komvux. We have put forward a proposal to increase the amount of the exemption, raise the age limit and increase the additional loan in order for more people to go to Komvux. None of this has been heard from the government. How does the Government view it?
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1215	Mr President, I would like to We have talked a lot about university qualifications, so I imagine we will allow that debate to continue on another occasion. I'm going to the komvux question. In this respect too, I have found moderate arguments strange in recent weeks. It has been said that it wants to introduce rights-based komvux. The aim is to invest in vocational adult education and training. Yet the Moderates cut adult education by 466 million. That's a lot of money. The question, of course, is: how can we finance the various reforms that we say we want to launch? The places must be financed in some way. When it comes to student funding, I think we need to take a good deal of action. We need to modernise to ensure that student funding reflects modern working life. I've already started such a job at the Department of Education. The rights-based compux proposed by the government is also reflected by the fact that students who choose this form of education will be entitled to study funding while studying. But I think we need to do even more. I think, as I said, the moderate argumentation is strange. They say that they want to develop student funding and make it possible for more people to study. But where are your seats, and how are you going to finance them? There are holes in your draft budget.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1219	Mr President, I would like to It will be exciting to enter into a debate that has been going on for a long time and has dealt with many areas. But in this late evening, we will move on to discussing higher education and research. I can only regret that the interest of the Swedish Democrats in this matter seems to be lacking – they have left the debate a long time ago. D higher education and research are very important for society and individuals. Access to higher education is needed throughout the country, and education must be of good quality in order to strengthen people's opportunities for both jobs and security. Sweden has both high-quality education and research today, but it can get better. If Sweden is to keep up with international competition, there must be substantial reforms for more collaboration, increased quality and better competition. This is needed for higher education to stand up in the future. It is also important to have an increased focus on education leading to jobs. There are today a number of major challenges linked to higher education in Sweden that I think the government unfortunately chooses to turn a blind eye to. We see that the rate of throughput in higher education is very low. The age of graduation is high. It is a major problem and a huge waste of taxpayers' money but also of people's skills. It is also a major problem that higher education in Sweden pays too little. Many students, such as those studying to be teachers and nurses, are at risk of losing their lives' income compared to having chosen to work right after high school – that shows surveys. This is already happening today. We also see that many courses are not of sufficient quality. A study from TCO shows that nearly half of all students have less than nine hours of teacher-led teaching at the university. Another survey, from the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, shows that more than half of all students believe that the interaction between their education and working life is too bad. This highlights major challenges but also great opportunities and the need for reform. After many years of developing higher education, by several different governments, there is today a strong need to increase the focus on quality. Instead, the government chooses to expand more sites and also remove the quality-based resource allocation system introduced by the Alliance. They simply choose quantity instead of quality. Mr President, I would like to The Center Party wants to see another way forward. We want to make it easier for students to be able to study their higher education more quickly with a more flexible semester system. It would benefit students. They could receive lower student debt and avoid worrying about their livelihoods during the summer months. It also benefits the business community, which can obtain the relevant skills more quickly. And it benefits society, as people get into the labour market more quickly and can have a longer working life. As a result, there will be increased tax revenue. The Red-Green Government has made proposals to significantly increase marginal taxes in Sweden. This will make it even less profitable for people to continue their education and further study in higher education. It will be more difficult for universities to recruit researchers and teachers from other countries than it is today. The Center Party wants to do exactly the opposite. We want to reduce marginal taxes and raise the breakpoint, so that it pays better for people to work and to educate themselves. We also see a great need to develop the resource allocation system for higher education institutions, so that the resources are more widely distributed according to quality and collaboration with the regional labour market and not just based on the number of students. We are therefore critical of the government removing the incentives that existed with the quality-based resource allocation system introduced by the Alliance and the Center Party. Although it was not optimal, there was still a focus on premium quality for higher education institutions. We see from the Center Party a great need for studies to be more closely linked to the labour market, preferably with strong regional collaboration. For that, more practice is required. The introduction of a student participation system is required and, in the long term, it is possible to increase the amount of the benefit so as to make it easier for students to enter the labour market while they are studying. It is important that we get higher education that leads to more jobs. Mr President, I would like to Let me say a few ords about research and innovation. In today's debate it will not be possible to raise so much, but it will be a major issue, especially in the years to come. I am also thinking of the government proposal that we from many quarters are looking forward to. During the year of the Alliance, we increased our investments in research and innovation. Those were record bets. It has been very good to strengthen research and innovation in Sweden. At the same time, however, we need even more focus on quality. V i need to make sure that we get more benefit from the money, so that we can get more results in the form of new methods, new products, new businesses and new jobs, which are so important. Also in international evaluations of Swedish research policy, it has been pointed out that Sweden could benefit more from the money. We see this as a very important part of the forthcoming bill, that there will be more social benefits and opportunities for commercialisation. Mr President, I would like to The Center Party sees a great need for substantial reforms in higher education but also in research. Higher education must be more likely to lead to work and the interlinking between it must be strengthened. Education should lead to jobs. Then we need to have a strong focus on quality. It is about the fact that the great resources that we spend on this will lead to the benefits that we can demand. We spend a great deal of resources on research, innovation and higher education.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1233	Mr President, I would like to Internationalisation is exciting, isn't it? We see that the world is becoming smaller and we see more and more countries competing to be the best in the class in more and more areas. This also applies to research, where many countries see opportunities for development and new areas for business to be built. Where companies are set up, developed and ventured, there is also growth for the country. According to Britain's Royal Society of Sciences, every tenth research article in the world is now published by a Chinese. Even countries like Brazil and India are challenging with conscious research efforts. This results, in my view, in more innovations that are able to take hold in these countries and in the creation of more and more successful companies, which, by extension, means an increasing number of jobs and prosperity for these nations. This development should encourage our country, for example, to invest intently in research in order to be able to face up to competition. Since Sweden is a knowledge nation, the development of new knowledge is central to Sweden's competitiveness. We spend about 2% of gross domestic product on research and development, which from a historical point of view is slow. This may be due, among other things, to companies choosing to place their research departments elsewhere than in Sweden. This fact is worrying in the long run for us as a research country. Of course, money is not everything, but the less you spend on research and development, the more important it is that we spend the money on the right research. Unfortunately, an OECD report presented recently shows that Sweden is still lagging behind and that the same assessment is being made of the situation by the democrats. Sweden must become sharper in few areas in order to be able to assert itself because the funds invested are not enough for everything. The breadth of Swedish research is large today, but the tip can become even sharper. The Christian Democrats want funding for growth-promoting research and innovation to be given priority. Sweden will be able to regain lost ground and become a world leader in research that Sweden has traditionally been a leader in. In the wake of world-leading research in some areas, companies are created that can grow and thrive and create jobs and growth so that we can maintain the welfare we want in Sweden. We know this from before. Since Sweden is a small country with limited resources, we cannot afford only to distribute resources evenly to higher education and research. The most important task of higher education is to convey knowledge. To make this possible, competent university teachers and researchers, a stimulating working environment and student social security are required. Christian-democratic higher education policy is therefore based on knowledge, quality, choice and security. The student should be at the heart of education and education. Since Sweden is a knowledge nation, the development of new knowledge is central to Sweden's competitiveness. This ensures welfare in the longer term. Higher education and research must harness interested talents to keep Sweden competitive. Therefore, there needs to be opportunities to study or research whether you are a new student or a single two-child parent. The Christian Democrats believe that universities should have a wide range of education and the majority of research environments. Higher education institutions must have a narrower and sharper range of basic education, a good research link in collaboration with universities and conduct state-funded research, where they are national or even international leaders. In times when many people are seeking their way to our country, we should be much better at taking advantage of the knowledge they bring here. The way to integration should go more than is currently the case with universities. For this to be possible, the validation of foreign grades and qualifications must be improved. Taking advantage of the knowledge acquired by the new arrivals contributes to increased growth in our country. It is good for the individual and good for Sweden as a nation. What the future looks like, we may have some idea but no exact map of it. What we know about are the resources we have available, such as students who have an eagerness to learn and find out new things. We have good higher education institutions that in some area have their tip. We have new arrivals who carry knowledge to our country which in some cases can fit into what we lack. It's all about optimising our resources in the best way to create a good future – a future that we ourselves create as a leading research nation and where we take advantage of what comes from this.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1246	Mr President, I would like to We know that many people want to study at the university, and we also know that the need for higher education graduates is increasing in the labour market. That is why politics must have high ambitions. That is why we simply need to have more places in higher education institutions and universities. Therefore, it is important to expand the university with approximately 14 600 full-year seats until 2019. In 2016, there will be a further 2,900 new full-year seats. The extension is aimed at specific training courses in the education sector and in the health sector. Those of us who sit on the Education Committee know how important and urgent it is that we train more teachers to meet the great shortage of teachers that will come in the coming years and about which we receive reports quite often. However, more places alone are not enough. It is also necessary to have high ambitions for the quality of education. Therefore, the spring change budget contained SEK 125 million to increase quality. The focus was primarily on humanities and social sciences, as well as teacher and teacher training. This effort continues in the 2016 budget and in the years following. It is very important that we get an increased focus on quality, and it is good to be able to say that to the Center Party, which rejects this quality improvement in its special opinion. We respond to quality, and we have money for that too. We're not just talking about it. Many people today come to Sweden with a higher education programme. These people often need additional training in order to be able to find a job in the labour market. That is why it is very important that we also spend money on having a supplementary education for those who come from other countries with a higher education programme so that they get a job. It is an important investment in the budget that we are now presenting. I would also like to mention two other important budgetary efforts. One includes support for universities and higher education institutions in their work on gender mainstreaming. The second provides resource support for higher education institutions to develop a more effective validation. These are two important profile issues for the government, and they are urgent efforts to develop gender equality within academia and to enable more effective study paths for those who want to study at a university. Mr President, I would like to I would also like to touch on the overall research budget. We should first note that the proposal submitted in autumn 2012 still governs much of the investments. In accordance with the proposal that was submitted then, the state funding for research and innovation is now increasing by a total of SEK 940 million in 2016. The next research policy proposal will be in about ten months, and then we will have the chance to talk more deeply about research and innovation linked to higher education. But even now the government states that we should think further ahead and take the horizon out in a ten-year perspective. In the government declaration, the government has said that there are some things that are already important to advertise. The aim is to increase the proportion of women professors, to distribute research grants more equally, to give priority to basic funding for research and to improve the conditions for young researchers. Of the SEK 940 million now invested in research during 2016, SEK 300 million will be allocated to the higher education institutions in accordance with what has been said earlier in the 2012 bill. There is a small new order in the distribution. The teaching institutions are divided into three groups – higher education institutions, the four new universities and other universities. It is therefore done that we will also support universities and the four new universities with research funding. We have criticised the previous government for the fact that the system has not been fully fair. Now we get a fair distribution where more money is given to research for higher education institutions and universities. That is what corresponds to what the Center and some others have said about colleges and research throughout the country. In our budget, we pursue the drive for collaboration between academia, industry, institutes and the public sector in terms of collaboration, important programmes and research projects for society. It's important. We also continue to invest in Sci Life Lab, ESS and Max IV. Mr President, I would like to I am pleased to be able to stand here today and tell you about a budget for higher education and research that you can be proud of. The budget has high ambitions. The budget we submit answers many questions put by the Centre Party and the KD in the debate. I support the proposal contained in the report, in particular the section on higher education and research. I wish you a Merry Christmas to Mr President and to all those sitting in the Chamber today.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1261	Mr President, I would like to I couldn't resist the temptation to ask for a line on Thomas Strand. In the absence of the minister, I agree with you, Thomas, and I would be happy to do so. It will be interesting to discuss higher education issues with you in the coming years. I reacted when you spoke of the small-scale efforts you make in higher education. At the same time, you are raising taxes on just work linked to changing job tax deductions and also the layer limit on government income tax. When the tax on labour is increased by 4.3 billion people are particularly affected by people who have trained or want to educate themselves in the future. In addition to this, it proposes even more tax increases in government policies on jobs and entrepreneurship which will make it more difficult to establish yourself in the labour market as it becomes more expensive to employ. What does Thomas Strand see in the education premiums? Studies from the OECD, among others, indicate that it is not worthwhile to study in Sweden. With even higher marginal taxes and when it becomes even more expensive to hire, there will be even lower returns for those students who actually choose to further train themselves. How does Thomas Strand view this? What are the government's views on getting more return on their studies? I would like to raise the issue of the resource allocation system. I know that both we and the Social Democrats have stood up for a more flexible futures system. This was promised, among other things, in the electoral movement. I would like to hear about the government's progress in developing a three-term system. When can we expect to see proposals on Parliament's table?
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1265	Mr President, I would like to I don't know if I can answer all the questions in my first line. I'll see how far I can get. I would say there are no small items in the budget. Among other things, we complete the investment of SEK 940 million for the research that the 2012 bill stated. It's not small sums. We invest in expanding the university and also have quality money. If we add up the quality money, it'll be $875 million. There are no small sums we invest in high education and research. Fredrik Christensson mentioned the OECD report. It was interesting. We cannot discuss it fully today, but the report shows that the efforts made by the bourgeois government with funds for research, which I think was good, have given too little exchange. There hasn't been much going on with that money. You know that there are 17 billion not used in a bag somewhere to be distributed at some universities. We can discuss how it will have an impact on the investments made. The three-term resource allocation system is not a proposal that we have put forward. It is an issue that has been discussed, but we will have to come back to a dialogue on this issue. The important thing now is to get more places so that more people can study and that there will be more money to get good quality.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1270	Mr President, I would like to I'll start with a clarification. I'll start with the education premium to make it pay to get educated. Unfortunately, I did not receive an answer from Thomas Strand on the question of how it will be more profitable to train in Sweden when taxes on labour are raised by 4.3 billion. How does Thomas Strand believe that the tax will affect people's willingness to educate themselves? As far as research is concerned, I share Thomas Strand's view that the money allocated by the Alliance was right, but we need to look at the next few years so that we can get more out of the money. The bets that I mentioned are about quality investments. On the whole, it is very little. During its years, the Alliance invested a great deal in quality, but we in the Center Party are currently seeing a great need to redeploy the entire resource allocation system so that it better reflects quality in relation to the regional labour market, interaction with other actors and to get teacher time. We see a big problem. Instead, the government has made a temporary effort so that there is uncertainty at higher education institutions whether to use the money or whether it will remain at a later date or not. There are still questions about how education premiums should pay off. During the 22 seconds of speaking time I have left, I would like to point out that there must be a discussion in Sweden about higher education. How are we going to get more than that for the money? I don't think more places are crucial. It is about strengthening the quality so that the people who then leave the university and enter the labour market have the conditions necessary for them to continue in the professions they have trained to and can also have the opportunity for retraining.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1274	Mr President, I would like to In the eight years in which the bourgeois government was in power, whatever question arose and whatever problems existed in society, it was a return to an answer, namely to lower the tax. So did you. Those who received the biggest tax cuts were such as Fredrik Christensson and I who earn well. They got the most money in their wallets. The Social Democrats and the Green Party in the government say that we should have a tax system that can bear our welfare. It is important that we can also increase taxes for those who earn more. It is solidarity and justice. It's nothing to be ashamed of. Many Swedes think it is reasonable that when you earn well, you can pay more to our welfare. It's important. In order to be able to invest in schools, higher education and research, it is important that there is a tax system that collects money. Then there was the question of quality money. The Center Party rejects the expansion of the university, despite the fact that the labour market wants more university graduates and that more people want to study. You also reject the quality initiatives that we are now rolling out. It's strange. Getting more results from the investments made is an issue with which we are all struggling. We will have to study the OECD report carefully to see how to use our research money wisely. We will come back to that in the bill that has come this autumn. As far as higher education is concerned, I believe that the issue of governance and management is very important. Right now we have an investigation of Kåre Bremer to be consulted. It concerns a very important issue: academic leadership linked to collegial decision-making. How are we going to make our universities work better in terms of management and governance?
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1281	Mr President, I would like to Political statements are usually a fresh product, at least in modern politics. Nevertheless, it is almost ten years since I stood in this House and noted that the Social Democrats are safeguarding Sweden's military alliance freedom but are basically not prepared to pay for it. On this point, little has happened over the last decade. Now, someone may object that this must be changed because of the so - called defense arrangement that was made just before the summer. It has been described as a turning point, as the beginning of something new. The Minister for Defence points out in debate articles that it actually means EUR 17 billion extra to the defence over the next five years. In Dagens Nyheter, he expressed that the investment in the defence arrangement would be an enormous investment in the Swedish defence. I have now allowed the parliamentary investigation service to look at how the defence's share of the bnp is affected by the defence settlement. It is quite natural that the Minister for Defence wants to go to history as the one who turned the development of the military defence in Sweden. However, the figures from the Parliamentary Investigation Service show that the settlement and its financial conditions will break the so-called one per cent wall within two years. In 2018, the defence share of Sweden's bnp will be 0.98 percent. The question now arises as to whether it is intellectually honest to make such comparisons. Is it interesting how much the defense gets from our overall economy? I agree that intellectual objections can be raised. At the same time, however, we must accept that it is precisely in this way that countries in the Community measure their defence efforts. I am already prepared to readily admit that the Liberals' financial framework for defence, although higher, does not make a big difference. But at least we are on the right side of the so-called 1% barrier. Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that, during the autumn meeting of the country, my party supported the ambition that defence expenditure must, in the long term, be up to at least 2% of GDP. My interpretation is that this means that for every new defence decision to which the Liberals participate, the gap between the level where Sweden is now and the 2% must be reduced. Today, the government has revealed the contribution Sweden is making to France in response to this country's request for assistance under the Treaty of Lisbon. The content of our contribution is two staff officers to Minusma and flight time with the strategic transport flight 2016 and 2017, also with the tactical transport flight. This batch no one ends up with more than 40 million your crowns at most, but it can also end up at over 20 million er. A few days ago, Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist stated in Svenska Dagbladet, among other things, that there would be a military substance in Sweden's contribution. It is natural for me, Mr President, now to ask the Minister for Defence whether he is satisfied with the outcome that the government has negotiated and is offering France. Mr President, I would like to Since the defence decision in 2004, it has been said that support to civil society must not be dimensional for the Swedish Armed Forces. One can think about what this really means. I got an aha experience when last summer, shortly after the fire in Västmanland, I visited the helicopter unit in Kallax in Luleå. Then I realized that the helicopter unit knew that every summer they were going out to put out forest fires and that they were going to be called up for this by the rescue leader. But precisely because this task was not to be dimensioned, it was not possible to plan the vacation for the helicopter drivers, but everyone would pretend that forest fires would not be extinguished. Then, when a forest fire arose, people would be snatched in from vacations. This is, of course, a slightly unreasonable interpretation of the rule that the Swedish Armed Forces must not be dimensioned after support to civil society. I am pleased, Mr President, that there are many parties that support reservation No 8, which is about reviewing these conditions. That is why I shall conclude my speech by calling for the approval of Amendment No 8.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1290	Mr President, I would like to I could not help asking for a reply to the Liberals on the issue of 2%, which I find very interesting to discuss. We know that there are organisations that want all the armed forces to be at 2% of the bnp. As long as Allan Widman remained in the Defense Committee, we all thought we would raise the bnp percentage for Sweden's defence. Now Sweden has started to go much better, and then the share of bnp for the defence is also falling. We have a country to the east that is much worse off, and because they keep their defence expenditure increases the defence share of the bnp. So this is really a very fuzzy talk to discuss. The question is what you can get for the money and what power you can get. We've had significantly higher numbers before in a defense that neither Allan Widman nor I were involved in. There could be a lot of soldiers in place, but after a very long time. Today we have a rapid unit that can come incredibly fast compared to before, and it is actually speed that is crucial when it comes to how we can face resistance from another country. I absolutely believe that this is more necessary. Now I know that there are other measures that you can look at when it comes to defence. I wonder if Allan Widman's been thinking about this. Is that 2% the only thing we can discuss in this House, the only decisive measure that we can have? If now Sweden will go even better, this proportion will fall a little further, even if we have added money. I would like an answer to that question.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1294	Mr President, I would like to Åsa Lindestam says that it is a fuzzy measure that I dwell on in my speech. I wouldn't call it fuzzy. That is extremely clear. Possibly it's blunt. It does not answer all the questions in this context. I readily admitted that there could be objections to this. But that does not prevent us, Mr President, from measuring this way, whether we like it or not. Åsa Lindestam is now asking if we should only talk about 2 percent. I believe, Mr President, that it will unfortunately take at least a decade before this House can approach a discussion of 2% of GDP in defence. NATO has a recommendation of 2%. It is important for the Liberals as advocates of Swedish NATO membership to relate to 2% for reasons of credibility. Perhaps other parties should also think about this. That is far too low a percentage of GDP, and we should at least approach what is the average for European Member States in NATO with a fairly rapid step, at least, at about 1.5%. Åsa Lindestam also says that one must look at the cost-effectiveness. FOI, the Swedish Defence Research Institute, has conducted several such studies. In the first place, they have looked at the amount of money we get in Sweden compared to countries such as Denmark and Finland. Unfortunately, these comparisons do not work to our advantage either, rather the opposite. Once upon a time you could see bandages for practice in the woods. Åsa Lindestam is quite right about that. Although it was mobilized units, Mr President, it was in any case regular units with centres, posts, liaison tents and other things. Today, demonstrator units and people dressed in civilian clothing are the most likely to meet. I do not think that progress has gone in the right direction.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1299	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Allan Widman, for the answer! That's very interesting to hear. In 2013, we travelled together with the Swedish Defence Committee, among other things, to Denmark. At that point, the Danes told us that they did not want to cooperate with us, because they have NATO. They said they were in complete agreement with NATO and had no need of Sweden. Since then, the world around us has changed considerably. A lot of things are happening right now. Then we think about our operational capabilities, which at least the five of us who are left in the defense arrangement put a great deal of effort into. The operational capability is absolutely necessary. That's what we're going to bet on, and it's measurable. We also have a lot of other measurable things that we will use in the future to see how good we are and also to improve. I still believe that Sweden will go even better. We see a fall in unemployment and an increase in GDP on behalf of Sweden. This will mean that the share of the defense in the bnp will be reduced in relation to the whole. So there are other things that we could relate to and other parts that might be better. Now Denmark suddenly wants to work with us. Many countries want to work with us. We have heard that earlier today. Co-operation is A and O right now, and then it's about bilateral co-operation that we can have with Denmark, Finland, Norway, Poland, the Baltics, the United States. At present, there is an increasing number of collaborations that we five parties who remain in the settlement will sort out. There's an investigator working on it. Are there no other measures to measure than the blunt target of 2%?
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1305	Mr President, I would like to In relation to the Nordic countries' economies, Sweden is the country, apart from Iceland, which has now decided the lowest share of GDP to the defence. That's not a good grade. It is nothing that strengthens credibility when Sweden acts in the area of security policy. Åsa Lindestam, and also the Minister for Defence, usually spend a lot of time listing Sweden's various collaborations, both multilateral and bilateral. And yes, cooperation is good, but it is important to remember, Åsa Lindestam, that collaborations that are supposed to end in the event of war are not defence collaborations. They are, at best, administrative cooperation. They can bring economic benefits at the margins, as one investigator pointed out last autumn, but the security policy effects of such cooperation that ends in the event of war are, of course, very limited. Then Åsa Lindestam says that the five parties that remain in the defence group will closely follow up on the defence agreement, ensure that it is cost-effective and that we reach all the ambitions we have set up. Mr President, I would like to I have seen four defence decisions from within this House. Not once have all the expectations and ambitions that have been achieved been met. Of course, I hope it will be different this time, but I have a little nagging doubt somewhere in the back of my head. Now Åsa Lindestam does not have the opportunity to reply, but there will be more occasions later in the debate, and I would therefore like to ask, in conclusion, Mr President: are the Social Democrats absolutely convinced that there are still five parties in the defence group?
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1310	Mr President, I would like to Let us look back on an eventful year in this expenditure debate. 2015 began with defence talks in Sälen early in January. It may not have been a successful start despite a memorable episode with Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist steaming up the corridor of the high mountain hotel with Expressenjournalists following him. Now, however, it ended relatively well with a relatively broad defence settlement five parties between parties and decisions in the Chamber about more money, which has been described by the Swedish Armed Forces as a trend crime. Unfortunately, the year does not end as successfully as the government has today failed to reach a broad agreement in response to France's request under the Treaty of Lisbon for support and assistance. This request is given an inadequate response, and I regret it. Mr President, I would like to Let us look a little further back in time. It is almost two years since the Russian illegal annexation of Crimea, which has fundamentally changed and weakened European security policy as we have known it for a long time. In fact, Russia has been prepared to use military means to annex part of another independent country, Ukraine. It was something that few assessors could predict. Let us remind each other of one important thing: it is not about the so-called crisis in Ukraine. It is Ukraine that is being attacked and provoked. The Russian warfare in Ukraine has focused on the fact that modern conflicts between states need not be about regular military forces fighting against each other. It may also be a question of spreading disinformation in order to weaken the opponent, use special units to support separatists or use economic pressure agents. We are faced with the possibility of a twilight country between war and peace where civil and military tools are used in an integrated way, which places high demands on a country's overall defence capabilities. Let's call it what we see Maskirovka 2.0. A recently released report from the Swedish Defence Research Institute, FOI, describes how Russia also strengthens its conventional military capability and is able to mobilise large parts of civil society to support the armed forces. The war of Georgia in 2008 was the starting point for a comprehensive Russian defence reform, with considerable resources invested in modernisation, but also in quantity. Russia carries out major exercises involving up to 150 000 soldiers and sailors, supported by civil authorities and functions. This means that Russia now has a well-developed ability to fight conventional conflicts in all geographical directions. The Swedish Armed Forces made the assessment a year ago, in connection with their basis for the defence decision, that the Russian capability will increase even more beyond 2020. There is no reason today to re-evaluate that assessment. In Sweden, too, we have for some time seen a more offensive Russian behaviour in connection with incidents and confrontations. In parallel, Mr President, Sweden is subject to influence operations, and the threat of intelligence against Sweden remains high. In the uncertain time we find ourselves, it is therefore a good thing that a broad defence arrangement is in place that strengthens the ability. The Moderates, the Center Party and the Christian Democrats as well as the Social Democrats and the Environmental Party have entered into the defence agreement, which adds an extra 10.2 billion to the defence period 2016–2020, in addition to the additions proposed by the Alliance Government in April 2014. Mr President, I would like to The defence arrangement focuses on the national defence and on measures that provide increased operational capabilities in the armed forces here and now. Finally, the renewed planning for total defence is an important piece of the puzzle to create a strong combined Swedish defence capability. As far as the overall defence capacity is concerned, I would like to focus on a specific aspect which has become increasingly important in recent years, namely psychological defence. The information society has made the fight for truth one of the most important battlefields. The explosion in the number of channels of information and the speed with which a message can be disseminated presents great opportunities for a possible attacker and major difficulties for the person being attacked. The dissemination of misinformation, lies and falsification of history can undermine an opponent's ability to make the right decisions, as well as spread confusion and unrest among the civilian population, which can destroy confidence in a government's ability to deal with a crisis. Nor is information warfare merely a weapon during an ongoing crisis. This battle is constantly being conducted in more or less transparent ways by trying to influence both decision-makers, businesses and citizens in a certain direction. More and more countries are also investing resources to handle not only outside influences but also influence themselves. The Russian TV channel Russia Today and the Russian news agency Sputnik are clear examples of a central Russian policy of influence. Sweden must have the ability to meet the disinformation and propaganda. The coordinating responsibility for psychological defence is currently with the Swedish Agency for Civil Protection and Preparedness, but several other actors have the practical responsibility. The new situation requires Sweden to take a holistic approach to psychological defence. Therefore, the Moderates propose within the framework of the overall budget level that we have agreed that FOI should be given an investigation mission to review the possibility of re-establishing psychological defence as an authority. This holistic approach is essential if we are to be able, in a new and troubled time, to have a good defence capability even in terms of psychological defence. Ultimately, this is a question of how we protect free speech and democratic society and its foundations. Where the lie is a weapon, the truth is the antidote. I support the Alliance's reservation No 12 to investigate the possibility of re-establishing psychological defence as its own authority. In addition, my colleague, Lena Asplund, will in a later speech develop some other thoughts and ideas that the Moderates have regarding this item of expenditure. Later in the debate, I will also hear with great interest how the Minister for Defence himself describes the journey from January, with a broad deal in the early summer, to the fact that today we can note that the government has failed to achieve cooperation on something as important as listening to the wishes of another European country in need of help.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1330	Mr President, I would like to For time winning, I only apply for reservation 1. When I was new to this Parliament for five years, it was only the Swedish Democrats who were in favour of Sweden having an invasion defence and that the defence of Sweden was the first and most important task of the defence. Now it's different. All eight parties want Sweden to return to an invasion defense. Most importantly, the Committee on Defence has noted that the security of our neighbourhood has deteriorated and that we must relate to it. The problem now is how to behave. The government's defence allocation for 2016 is SEK 120 million lower than for 2015. So it's a reduction. Only from 2017 will there be a slight increase. In the government's vision as it stands in the defence decision, the defence grant will in the long term only increase to a maximum of 1.3% of GDP. Such an increase is too small. The Swedish Democrats believe that the defence grant must increase to 2% of GDP in the longer term. If we look at the air forces, we realise that the government's efforts are too weak financially. 60 Gripen aircraft, version E, is too little for a medium-strong invasion defense. Ten divisions of Gripen E, which means 200 new fighter planes, would be needed as soon as possible. The number of war-placed air traffic controllers should increase in order for us to be able to cope with sustained defence battles. This requires a better staffing policy for air drivers. That only a few aircraft per fighter's division are available at every moment is too bad. At least three rotors per division should be available at each division at every moment. This requires that we increase the number of technicians and the number of spare parts in stock. Our preparedness today is based on buying in more robots if we face a war. It's an inadequate alert. We need more attack and hunting missiles in storage at the divisions. Today we have ten war airports. It's too small a spread for us to persevere. We need more war airports. Today we have two base battalions for the war airports. The clearance companies have been removed. This means that we have too little ability to get our planes up quickly in war. The former Commander-in-Chief stated a few years ago that we need to acquire modern long-range anti-aircraft. The anti-aircraft experts at the Swedish Armed Forces are clear when they point out which systems we should purchase. It is Iris-T-T for short-range anti-aircraft and Aster 30 for long-range anti-aircraft. If Sweden buys Aster 30, it is very likely that Saab can enter as a partner in the system. Mr President, I would like to The government's defence budget is too weak. It is not enough for a moderate air defence. If we look at the naval forces, we realise that even there the government's efforts are financially too weak. The number of surface combat vessels has fallen to seven. This makes it difficult to cope with all emergency tasks in the event of war. We must also expect that there will always be a number of ships for service in shipyards. Today, in the Navy, it is said that one will never have any new larger ships. That pessimism must be broken. The number of surface combat vessels should increase to at least 12. The surface flotillas should increase to three and the submarine flotillas to two. Today there are problems with the manning of the fleet's vessels. This means that a better personnel policy for fleet personnel must be launched. The knowledge of submarine hunting and minute-laying is spread on too few people. Although the defense has demanded it, torpedo 45 has not been updated. We don't have amphibious units. They need to be reinstated, which also allows us to regain the capability of moving coastal robot 15, an effective weapon. Mr President, I would like to The government's defence budget is too weak. It's not enough for a medium-strong naval defense. Finally, looking at the ground forces, we realise that even there the government's efforts are economically too weak. Two brigades in the field army are too little. With so few army brigades, we can't carry an effective defense battle from the exit squad. The need for long-range movements of the brigades to meet an attacker would mean that we would almost have a tactical role as attackers and thus significantly greater losses. The army's brigades need to be increased. Conscripts retired from the brigades should be placed in local defence units under the Home Guard. Special units are becoming increasingly important. Battalions with special training and operating directly at headquarters should be increased. Therefore, the training at Karlsborg and Arvidsjaur should be extended, and the training in Kiruna should be resumed. Mr President, I would like to The government's defence budget is too weak. It's not enough for a medium-grade ground defense. But if we were to gradually increase the defence budget to 2% of GDP, we would be able to afford a medium-strong invasion defence.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1351	Mr President, I would like to When we discussed the orientation decision in June, which was subsequently adopted, we came up with different figures and distributions. Therefore, given the basis for this debate and the extensive motion of the Swedish Democrats, I would like to ask a few questions. I note that there are a number of descriptions of efforts and initiatives to be made at least from 2020, 2021 and beyond. Then we are on the next planning period, and most are on the next planning period. At the same time, it can be noted that the Swedish Democrats are proposing an additional SEK 36 billion in addition to the money included in the defence agreement. So that will be 46.2 billion extra compared to the amount of money that existed before we reached the agreement of 10.2 billion. You can also read about different years, 2016– 2019. When I sum up the money that is distributed in the table, it will be 18 billion for the four years. Does this mean that there will be EUR 18 billion for 2020 in the Swedish Democrats' ambition increase for this period? Since it is not described in the material in the exercise, I wonder: How will the 18 billion be distributed by 2020?
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1355	Mr President, I would like to Defence policy covers a five-year period, while the planning framework we have in Parliament is four years old. You're talking about the fifth year, Daniel Bäckström. We gradually scale up our commitment to the defense. The first four years of the Riksdag's planning framework, we invest 18 billion more than the government. In the fifth year we are investing further, but it is outside the planning framework. We have sketched it out, but the figures we can vouch for are for the four years. This applies to all parties. Then we can have a promise that the fifth year will also increase our investment. But it is outside the Parliament's four-year framework. This applies to all parties.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1357	Mr President, I would like to As I have been involved in negotiating the orientation decision, I know very well that we have a decision in this House from June this year on the first four years but also on year five, year 2020. With the Swedish Democrats saying so clearly that for the entire defence period 2016 – 2020 a further increase of 36 billion is proposed, the consequence is that there is a difference of 18 billion. The fact that there is a focus decision at the bottom should not be so difficult to answer the question of how to allocate the 18 billion actually proposed in a very comprehensive exercise. That there is a lot of ambition and ambition increases for the following two focus periods, 2021 – 2025 and beyond, we will discuss long-term future. But here and now we are talking about a really decided direction in the Swedish Parliament. Then it should – from a certain responsible perspective, if the Swedish Democrats would have the opportunity to rule the country – be in place to answer how to distribute the money. There is an enormous amount of extra money you add and cut into your proposal.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1359	Mr President, I would like to The fifth year is not part of this debate. But it is clear that we have put it in the budget how it is to be allocated to spending under Category 6. That's it. I can't describe all those bets, because that's between 10 and 20 different bets for the fifth year. In the fifth year, we are prepared to invest considerably more. It will be an upward curve that is not exponential but at least significantly increases even in the fifth year. I can get my numbers and stand here and list all the bets we make on the defense. It's a long line. But that's not what I've been preparing for.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1362	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 5 on the accounting of investments in equipment and the basis for strategic decisions. The Center Party takes seriously the increasingly challenging security situation in our neighbourhood, but also within the European Union. Of course, this affects us here in Sweden and our immediate environment as military activity in the Baltic Sea increases and our Baltic neighbours feel increasingly vulnerable. This places demands on our Swedish defence capabilities when the unrest is creeping closer. The Center Party wants the combined Swedish total defence capability to be strengthened. This means further training activities, appropriate weapons and also additions to the ammunition side. We need to have a presence throughout the country and be able to handle all weather conditions in Sweden but also in the places where we make international efforts. There needs to be a stable and clear financing plan for defence activities. Further work on the long-term and short-term recruitment of personnel is a priority, and competence development is needed in all parts of the Swedish Armed Forces over time. It is important that Sweden's defence and security policy has broad support in the Swedish parliament. The Center Party, together with the other four parties, has actively contributed to the development of the broad defence policy agreement that came into being in a decision in June for the next five years. It's a decision that raises the defence budgets. This is an important first step. However, the opinion of the Center Party is that more is likely to be needed. Protecting Sweden and Swedish citizens from external threats belongs to the central government's core business. The staff of the armed forces deserve to be given the opportunity to solve their tasks safely and effectively. We support Parliament's decided objectives for both military defence and civil defence. It is about asserting Sweden's sovereignty, being able to prevent and manage conflicts and wars, protecting Sweden's freedom of action and protecting society and its functionality. A credible military capability contributes to peace. Our defence must be a threshold for anyone who might wish to attack our country. More and more areas in the world are now more uncertain and unstable. Conflicts are on the increase. We often talk about areas in the Middle East, Ukraine and North Africa. This poses both humanitarian and security challenges for our nation in how best to equip our defence and develop our civilian preparedness. It also shows that we must continue to be prepared to participate actively in international efforts. Sweden is not its own island. We build security best together with others. It is important to continue to deepen our defence cooperation in the Nordic region and around the Baltic Sea and to build alliances for peace and stability. Therefore, the Center Party sees that it is natural to also move forward for Sweden and start a process for a Swedish NATO membership. It must also be said that it is therefore regrettable that the government was not more interested in being able to present a broad agreement when it came to Sweden's support to France after the terrorist attacks in Paris. The Center Party has said that we want to look at how best to share the resources available to Sweden in order to contribute as effectively as possible to the fight against Daish within the framework of international law. This includes reconnaissance efforts with JAS but also other measures. The statement we have received from the government today is clear. This is a minimum level based on what you want to do. I had hoped that a broader agreement could have been reached on the actions. We must dare to ask ourselves how France's possible answer could be if we were to end up in their situation in the future. Sweden must be better able to analyse and manage the various steps of hybrid warfare. We also need to work to strengthen psychological defence and manage several types of crises at the same time. The current situation with many refugees coming to Sweden gives us valuable insights into what needs to be done to develop society's overall crisis preparedness, governance and ability to organize. Extraordinary events require a trained local, regional and national leadership that has the ability to make the right decisions in stressful situations and has endurance. The importance of leadership cannot be overestimated in critical situations. This testes our ability to face difficulties with a good mood, provide calmness, show confidence and act on the basis of available resources, and be able to make the best of the conditions for coordinating as many efforts as possible and for gathering as many people as possible. It is when systems are tested that planning for the future will be at its best. With the practical experience of real events, the picture of what works and is good and what does not work is nuanced. It is therefore important that civil crisis preparedness exercises continue to be carried out in the country and that priority be given to this, even though there is a lot of pressure in ordinary operations. I think it is under these conditions that one can really improve when it comes to the overall crisis preparedness capability in Sweden. The situation is different in the counties. The use of current risk and vulnerability analyses is limited and the civilian defence task is not given sufficient priority in relation to other data. At present, it is estimated that one third of the country's county administrative boards lack resources and competence. It tends to be more reporting requirements than concrete tools for operational planning measures. There are more project grants than administrative grants, which provides more short-term work than long-term and clear conditions for municipalities and county boards to collaborate. Mr President, I would like to Sweden must be able to cope with several unforeseen events at the same time. Storms, fires and other crises do not take into account the need for change, and an accident will its worse not always be alone. Civil defence planning is now starting from scratch. The government has in the past week adopted planning instructions for the total defense, and it will be our joint task to follow up on how this will be done in practice.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1381	Mr President, I would like to I shall not mention the things that lie outside the report, although I have noticed that there is a tendency to drift out in some other more or less topical discussions. That is understandable, but I intend to refrain from doing so at least initially. Nor will I comment on the parts of the report that I agree with. I am content to ask for the approval of reservations 7 and 8 and to speak for a moment about them. The Left Party believes that it should be assigned to the Armed Forces to plan and dimension in order to also assist civil society in national crises and disasters. Sweden is too small to double resources. I note that the defence support to society and other authorities is taking place today if necessary – as stated in the decision regarding the new defence policy direction – within the framework of the Swedish Armed Forces' existing capabilities and resources. It also says: Support to society in the event of serious accidents and peacetime crisis situations should not be dimensional for the Swedish Armed Forces. The fire in Västmanland, where I had a personal role and which I experienced at close range in my municipality, could have been extinguished earlier if the Swedish Armed Forces had been tasked with keeping a certain level of preparedness to support society with firefighting. But that was not the case. How is this interpreted in practice? It is just as the honourable Member, Allan Widman, mentioned. It has gone so far that even the holiday planning of helicopter pilots does not take this into account. I think that says most of the things on the subject. We therefore believe that it should be assigned to the Armed Forces to plan and dimension in order to assist civil society in the event of national crises and disasters. That is the view of the Left Party. This question about the Swedish Armed Forces' support to society has not changed with the new defence policy direction, and I read earlier from the decision. The Left Party therefore wants the Swedish Armed Forces to be given a broader mandate. As a reservation from the Alliance goes in the same direction, I would also like to support it. I am referring to the narrower focus on the possibility of extending the use of the Swedish Armed Forces' helicopters in emergency preparedness. That's good. The alliance is on the right track, even if it doesn't come all the way. But it's always something that the hell said when he saw Åmål.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1390	Mr President, I would like to Tonight we are debating Category 6, Defence and society's emergency preparedness. Now that we are debating this important subject, we must first note that there are many dark clouds in the sky of security policy. We have the situation in Ukraine, where Putin is in no way finished. The situation in Crimea is well known. We are in an increasingly tense position in the Baltic Sea, which is particularly felt by our friends in Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. We had the submarine incident a year ago. We know that the number of air force incidents and calls has increased by 50%. We can only think about what it's like underwater. But at least we know what happened then. We also had the terrible act of terror in Paris on 13 November. We also have what is going on in Iraq with genocide against Yazidians and Christians. As the previous speaker mentioned, we have just today discussed in another context what Sweden should respond. For we have adopted a declaration of solidarity and have an obligation to stand up under the Treaty of Lisbon. It has been very clear from France and also from America with the same line. Unfortunately, I note that the government has not heeded what the Christian Democrats and the Alliance as a whole have put forward since last summer, namely that we could help with reconnaissance. I'd like to take this opportunity to send a question to the Secretary of Defense. He has previously stated that it would be a military substantial support. The question is whether the Minister for Defence is satisfied with the support that Sweden is now giving in response to France's call. I would like to make a few comments in the report. The Christian Democrats have a reservation that is about having a better transparency when it comes to defence capabilities. In January, it is three years since ÖB talked about that we will last a week if he gets all the money he wants by 2020. The question we raise is: how could transparency be increased? Having a good defence is one of the most elementary things one as a citizen can expect. Then it would be very good if you could get a clear report. We have advocated that the Swedish National Audit Office be given a mandate to report on how it is doing in terms of staffing upfilling and in terms of what the units are able to do. It would be an important thing to talk about, and it could strengthen the confidence of the Swedish people that our defence works. Then there's reservation number 9. It's a motion I've written that has become the Alliance's joint reservation. It is about an investigation of the Swedish Armed Forces' support to society, and we believe in the reservation that there has been a pronounced doubt at both the political level and among other authorities when it comes to using the Swedish Armed Forces' various abilities in events where different civil authorities have the main responsibility. I would like to point out in particular that the Armed Forces have about fifty helicopters, and as previous speakers have mentioned, there are examples from Västmanland where we did not exploit these abilities at all in the way we could do. The reservation also points out that there is a problem with the fact that we in various authorities see a tendency to want to acquire our own resources for all possible eventualities. We therefore call for an announcement to the government to set up an investigation to investigate how the Swedish Armed Forces could be better able to assist the rest of society in crisis situations. It is a motion we hope can get the support of Parliament. The last point I wanted to make concerns reservation 12, which concerns an investigation into the establishment of a psychological defence authority. We are in a situation where we see that the information war and that part is becoming increasingly important. We saw it in Ukraine with regard to Crimea, and we see it elsewhere. We also see that we ourselves are exposed to it. It is therefore important that we take this up, because we can predict that it will increase in the future. We write in the reservation that the new situation means that Sweden needs to take a holistic approach to this and that the Swedish Defence Research Institute should be tasked with investigating the possibility of re-establishing psychological defence as its own authority. In these words, I would like to point out that, of course, I support all the excellent reservations of the Christian Democrats, but for time to come, I am only in favour of reservation 9.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1401	Mr President, I would like to It is exciting to listen to Mikael Oscarsson's talk about this with transparency. I'm a little surprised. After all, you have been in government for eight years, and in all the 14 years I have been in the Committee on Defence, we have talked about increasing transparency in terms of materials. Of course, it would probably be good if you could do that, in a very peaceful world, and at the same time we do not live that way. We heard in the speech Mikael Oscarsson said that it is actually starting to crust out there. There's a lot going on. At the same time, therefore, we in the Committee on Defence need to have more knowledge of the equipment orders. Then you can think about how it would be done, if we need to know at the same time as we need to have a material procurement that is confidential. We also know that knowing how much money is spent on certain materials will mean that the proposals on what to obtain put forward will cost a little more than we have money for in the budget. I would like to know how transparency will increase in what Mikael Oscarsson raises. I look forward to getting a proposal. Now we have had eight years of your rule, Mikael Oscarsson, and you have not really succeeded in this. Let's get this out. Give us a hand and we'll hear how it's done! I would be very grateful for that.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1405	Mr President, I would like to I thank Åsa Lindestam for the opportunity to tell us about this. Let me first say that I am not standing here claiming that everything was perfect during the eight years of the Alliance on defence issues – far from it. We have now made a defence settlement which is a step in the right direction and which should be followed by more steps. One thing I have been interested in ever since I was given the privilege of joining the Committee on Defence five years ago is to increase transparency – to be open with what we can and cannot do. Then we can also get understanding from the Swedish people when it comes to increasing the funding. That's what a lot of people have been thinking about, that the money isn't enough. We need more money to pay the bills for a defense that works. What I've done in the motion... and it's now forever in the minutes... is to present suggestions. It says that the motionaries therefore believe that an independent analysis of the Swedish Armed Forces' activities and capabilities should be carried out annually and that it should be publicly reported in a context. For each unit of war, factors such as manning, material upfilling, completed training, costs and assessed ability related to the unit goals should be reported. ..................................................... It also says: and in some, very few cases, e.g. some special units intended for counter-terrorism or equivalent tasks, according to the motionaries, there may be reason to consider the extent to which the data should be open. In order to ensure that there is no doubt that the financial statements are impartial and objective, the analysis should be carried out by, for example: The National Audit Office. ..................................................... This could therefore be done every two years. That's my suggestion. What does Åsa Lindestam say about this, as I think, absolutely excellent proposals?
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1410	Mr President, I would like to I do not really agree with the level mentioned in this House. This is not about not being able to pay your bills, it is about the Christian Democrats having a higher level of ambition. We're paying our bills, aren't we? I think you and I are doing so privately, Mikael Oscarsson, and so are we when it comes to defence so far. I don't know anything else. It is exciting to hear that we are heading in the right direction. I also think that we are, and I think the cooperation we have had in our defence group has been very good. There have been frequent contacts and a lot of conversations, even about things that we cannot carry out and that – we have been told – have been kept confidential. I think that's good. As far as the Swedish National Audit Office is concerned, I do not have the ability to control it, and I do not believe that the Defence Committee has the ability to control what it will evaluate either. Instead, it is something it decides for itself; the National Audit Office is its own authority that decides what it wants to do. I think that's good. I think it's good that we have an independent authority to do these things. When it comes to transparency, however, I did not think that it is just about analysing what we have done afterwards. I thought it was something you do before and in the meantime, so that you know what you have and how it should be visible. Now, however, I understand that this is something you analyse afterwards to see what you have done wrong. After all, we have received these reports from the Swedish National Audit Office – it has decided on its own accord and made a dozen reports that have been of very high quality. As I understand it, there will also be someone or some in the coming years, and I think that is very good. I do not believe, however, that we can govern the National Audit Office. Having transparency means that we should know what we are doing afterwards. Is that how I'm supposed to see it?
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1415	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for agreeing that the reports by the Swedish National Audit Office are good, Åsa Lindestam. What I mean is that we should put this in a system so that every year the citizens of Sweden can get a compilation of this kind and know what it looks like with staffing, shortcomings and what is going on. It can be an important receipt for citizens to – hopefully – see that progress is being made. What I was thinking was that when we look ahead we see that it will not be cheaper to defend Sweden. We see bigger threats and darker clouds-- I painted some future scenarios. We also know that we are investing in Gotland. It was an important part of the Christian Democrats being involved in the deal, but we want to do more. We also want a heavy coastal robot, but we did not get the majority for that. We would have liked that, but if we were to implement it, it would cost money. That is why I believe we need more funding in the future in order to meet the objectives we have set ourselves. There is a tendency for it to be more expensive than expected, and it is important to follow up carefully in the defence group that there is no discrepancy between what we have decided and what money is available. It is also a very important part for the Swedish people, I think. One should have confidence that we make decisions and follow them up so that it will be as we have said. We must have a defence that can deliver security to the Swedish people. It should also be added that we want Sweden to be a member of NATO. This is something that is really needed for us to really defend Sweden's borders and be able to help create security in our part of the world.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1419	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in its report on defence and society's emergency preparedness. Much of the reason why we are standing here is not only that we are going to discuss the budget, but we are also going to assess the global situation we are facing. That has been raised by previous speakers. It concerns the Baltic Sea, Ukraine and what is happening there, how we look at Daish and how we should handle those things. I am very grateful for the five parties in the Defence Group, the discussions we have had and the meetings that have been held. They've been very good. The fact that we have together managed to put forward proposals for so much more billions – 10,2 billion to the defence – is unique. It has not happened before in all my years in the Committee on Defence that we have ever raised the level. On the contrary, we have been lying still or even sometimes lowered. We also agree on a large number of investigations. Perhaps the most important ones are about materials and how we will succeed in the future. There are shortcomings today, and we must try to resolve them as far as possible. We must also find a level of ambition that we consider reasonable. We know that we lack a number of staff. We will also have an investigation into our collaborations that I look forward to reading. There is an enormous amount of cooperation that we have today with countries both near and far. The report sets targets for military defence and civil defence. We've heard that, because others have told us about it. I'd like to focus on a few other things. This concerns Swedish security. We have heard here that together with others we can get security also in Sweden. Now we see that Article 42:7 of the Treaty of Lisbon of the European Union requires us to find solutions together. It is a question of both giving and receiving support, and in this case of providing support. I think we've found a good way. I know that the other parties that have been involved have also supported that part, although they have a higher level of ambition. I think that's good. The best part of that is that we made a quick decision. It didn't take long at all. We only have Germany and Britain ahead of us. Another thing that could increase the speed of what we are doing is the host country support that we are facing to decide on, probably by the summer. Hostland aid will set us straight. It is about that for every country that comes to us, we should be able to know: This needs it. It can be about insurance, what happens when they are available and what protection they need, for example for their aircraft. It's order and order. The alternative to not deciding on host country support is to examine every time we have an exercise here what each country needs. Then it is better to have a small facsimile side by side in the form of this. It's about being a host country and receiving. But it's also about us being in charge. It is we who decide who comes, when they come and what. These are exercises we're going to need. But I would like to stress that it is we who decide what will happen. I think it's very good. We have a measure that we will use for how we see the defence improved. It is, of course, a matter of warability and operational ability. Everything's supposed to be war-placed. Then we will also be able to see that progress is being made. It's faster, and there are better ways to do it. It might be good for us to see. As I said earlier, it is about personnel, equipment and also about practice. I'm not going to mention much about civil defense. My party colleague Kalle Olsson will mention that later. In the settlement we have made, we will increase the presence on Gotland. It is of great interest, and I know it will be fine there eventually when it is done. We will spend money on our base plate and also on our submarine hunting capabilities, which is absolutely necessary. I would like to agree with much of what previous speakers have said about influence operations. We are subject to impact surgery every day. We also do this as Members of Parliament. We need to train a lot for that. I'm getting emails every day, saying things that I see directly aren't true. How we can achieve this not only for us but also for the people of Sweden will be a great difficulty to cope with. I, who have my past at school, think a lot about how to teach students in school to become critical thinking. That is absolutely necessary. We talked about this even before I took office in Parliament. How are we going to make our children think critically? If we can't do that part, we're facing very difficult things in the future. It is also about democracy. It's all about being able to find the right facts all the time. It will be crucial for us to be a democratic country. People should be able to choose for themselves and not be influenced by false facts. I think that's our big challenge in the future.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1436	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the speech, Åsa Lindestam. That is exactly what has been said. We have a five-party settlement. We also have the Follow-up Group, which by chance met very early this morning. It is important that we now follow up and find the balance between what we want to see and the funds allocated. If there were to be a discrepancy, a difference, we would have to adjust it either way. In my case, it is perhaps not a question of reducing our ambitions, but of trying to find another solution. It is important that we have the Follow-up Group. That's where we'll follow up on the defense decision we've made. Mr President, I would like to Åsa Lindestam also mentioned the Swedish Government's response to France's request in accordance with the Lisbon Treaty. Åsa Lindestam stressed that it was a quick action. You might not agree with that. It's been over a month since the request came in. In addition, the design of the package – its smallness, and in my opinion its inadequacy – is all within the framework of what the government itself can decide on. This could have been done several weeks ago by the government if it thought it was enough. If you wanted to be fast, you could be even faster. I note that the debate today has noted that there may be more packages. There are no more packages promised, but there may be more packages. I would like to ask Åsa Lindestam a specific question. With the draft budget now in place, the account for international action will be zero. If the account for international efforts is now zero, how did Åsa Lindestam, the Social Democrats and the Government intend to fund further international efforts in 2016? Is it from the national defense you intend to take money?
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1440	Mr President, I would like to I'm surprised Hans Wallmark says it's not fast. We are number three of the countries that have said what they want to contribute. You have to say, it's very fast. Hans Wallmark thinks that the government had been able to respond to something a few weeks ago. I don't think that would have been possible. This is a careful consideration. I know that not only the Moderates but also the other parties have wanted to be involved in a number of sittings so that we could find out what was possible, what the country requesting help would get and where we would take it. Democracy never really goes fast. But in my opinion it is a very rapid action. It is Germany and the United Kingdom that have made a proposal in the past. Now ours came today with the decision that we have made. I do not think it is inadequate. It's a first start. We'll see more. But I do not think it is inadequate at this stage. When I read about what is happening around the world, I think there are many things that we can contribute in the future. But today it's a good package. I was also told at the same meeting as Mr Wallmark that France was very pleased with the decision and thanked for what we are contributing, so why should we not think that this is a good thing? I believe that we will continue in the future, and the decision includes an evaluation for the autumn. But as early as spring 2016 we will see if there is anything more you should do. That the account would be zero for international efforts is to play a little with the truth. We're already in several places, so it's not nothing. I believe that Mr Wallmark believes that there is no further effort. But that's a completely different thing. We are in several places, and I am sure that we will re-evaluate and evaluate this.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1447	Mr President, I would like to As far as speed is concerned, I would like to stress to Åsa Lindestam that everything contained in the package is within the framework of what the government itself can decide on. If the government had wanted to act more quickly, it would have been able to do so, because there is nothing in the package beyond that. I appreciate that there have been talks but regret that the government did not reach a broad consensus solution. Mr President, I would like to Åsa Lindestam said at least once that the package may be seen as a first start. It has also been said that there may be more packages, even if nothing is decided. Let me therefore return to the debate on the budget. Just as Åsa Lindestam said, the account is not zero because we are making a number of efforts. But there is no money for anything more in 2016. If you intend to make some more international effort in the world when it is called for by the UN or someone else, or if the government itself wants to present additional packages because Åsa Lindestam said that this was a first start, how will it be paid in 2016? As far as I am concerned, it is unthinkable to move money from national defence to international efforts. I believe that we are bound by the defence agreement we have entered into. Let me therefore put the question of control to Åsa Lindestam as the representative of the government of the Social Democrats: Is this view shared? If so, how can you finance what can now become more packages because Åsa Lindestam described the current package as a first start?
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1453	Mr President, I would like to I'm still wondering if Hans Wallmark would have preferred the government to make a decision just to make it happen quickly. I understood that the Moderates and other parties wanted an invitation and to be involved in discussing these things in the spirit that we usually have in these decisions, and then it must take some time. Of course, the government could take the club and say, "This is what we're gonna do. But I understood that you wanted to take part in the influence as far as possible and that we would hold talks together. His Wallmark is welcome to deny that it was so, because then I can report to the government that the Moderates wish we do in a different way. However, I do not think that is the case. I think that consensus solutions are the best thing. I also believe that such conversations can dissolve many parts of this. The budget as a whole is due tomorrow, including the defence budget. That is why we are debating this evening. I'm sure there's more to come, but this is where we're standing now. If the Moderates make proposals, if the world demands anything, or if other countries say something, then we will have to take a stand on it. But this decision applies here and now, and that is what I am starting from. During the spring we will have more sittings and look at what we decided and if it was right. During the autumn there will be an evaluation, and it will tell us what we can do more for any future investments or, if there is calmer out there, that we do not need to do anything more. It's something completely different.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1459	Mr President, I would like to Åsa Lindestam possibly remembers that signed in the latest Defence Committee pushed the issue of a review of the Swedish Armed Forces' support to civil society. Perhaps even Mr President remembers this. It ended up with the Defence Committee proposing in total agreement that there should be an investigation and review of this. There have been many investigations as a result of the defence agreement, but nothing has happened in this paragraph. Let me ask Åsa Lindestam a straight question. Doesn't Åsa Lindestam think it's reasonable to be able to plan vacations in helicopter units to take height for the civilian operations that you know will come? Could Åsa Lindestam as representative of the government not send a signal about the need for such a review? It is about these exclusive resources not being sub-optimised in terms of society as a whole. At the same time, it is about an opportunity for the helicopter weapon in the Swedish Armed Forces to maintain competence. As long as you had to drive patients from the archipelago, extinguish forest fires and participate in sea rescue our helicopters worked. Since this ended, it has been considerably worse. Mr President, I would like to Åsa Lindestam says that Sweden is now strengthening its submarine hunting capabilities. Then let me ask Åsa Lindestam in connection with the defence agreement: In what way?
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1466	Mr President, I would like to I am grateful for the question, because I also find this interesting. I've been to Kallax talking to the helicopter drivers, and they don't have this mission anymore. Unlike Allan, I did not understand that they could not take a vacation and plan without taking a vacation. That's the answer I got. But if something happened, you called because you knew who was at home. Drivers had full right to say no on their vacation. But sometimes it could be interesting to volunteer, and then they did. I do not think it was about them not being able to take advantage of their statutory holiday. I was there, and perhaps also Allan Widman, when we decided that the Swedish Armed Forces' helicopters and budget should not go to forest fires. The forest owners would take responsibility for it. I think it was during our first period that we discussed this. It became a decision that the military helicopters would no longer be used for this, but the defense would work on the defense's tasks. There was no forest fire. Therefore, we decided to remove this part. For a while, we didn't have forest fire planes either. But that part has come back, and I think forest fire planes are absolutely necessary. The question is, who's going to pay? Is it the state or the forest owners? It is true that the state owns forests. But so do many others, so perhaps they should contribute.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1470	Mr President, I would like to Now I think Åsa Lindestam mixes up some different phenomena. Forest fire aircraft existed until the early 2000s and had the task of observing over large areas if a forest fire was about to spread. It was removed with reference to the responsibility of the forest property owners themselves. This is not what we are discussing now, but the Swedish Armed Forces' ability to contribute with their exclusive resources to extinguishing forest fires. That's partly another thing. There are compensations between different authorities here. When the Swedish Armed Forces stand up there is financial compensation, so that way the Swedish Armed Forces will not suffer. Mr President, I would like to I didn't say the helicopter drivers at Kallax don't get their vacation. I can only say that they are being called in from their holidays because this cannot be planned. But it is clear that sooner or later they will be allowed to take their statutory holiday. My question remains: Does Åsa Lindestam think it is a reasonable order to have it in the way it now works? She didn't think so in the Defense Committee. Is Åsa Lindestam prepared to take any initiatives together with a broad opposition on this issue to review support for civil society? Mr President, I would like to I cannot help but note that Åsa Lindestam has not yet answered my second question about how we now noticeably strengthen the Swedish capability for submarine hunting. But since she has several speeches left, at least one, I guess I'll get an answer to that question now.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1477	Mr President, I would like to It is difficult to have time for all the questions you get in two minutes, I have to say. Maybe I should talk faster, but I can't really do that. Allan Widman has always been down in the details of things, but I know these things belong together. What was important in my previous speech was whether the defence should be responsible for the tasks of the defence or whether we should use our helicopters for quite other things, as Allan Widman thinks. No, I don't think so in this case, but we have chosen in this part. What we've changed lately is help to the police. There I think we should use helicopters, because we have seen in investigations that it has been extremely costly for the police to get their own helicopters. I think there are many authorities who think of their own, in their drainpipes. I know there have been many investigations into how helicopters should be used in Sweden, but at the moment I think we should stick to this. Police helicopters, yes, but we'll have to do the rest another way. The money must also come in a different way. After all, the state's activities are to be financed in some way. It can be extremely expensive if we are to use the military helicopters for a large number of operations. It is not just that part, but there are many more parts for which the helicopters could be used. Allan Widman will have to write a motion that we should use them differently. Then there could be a discussion.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1482	Mr President, I would like to In the Treaty on European Union, or the Treaty of Lisbon, there is a paragraph called 42.7 which is a declaration of solidarity. It may be triggered in the event of a crisis, conflict or terrorist act. We all know in this House what happened on 13 November, the terrible thing that struck France, Paris and individual people – a meaningless act of terror that was supported by IS/ Daish. After that they went out and pulled the cord for the first time in the history of the European Union and said: Now we need help, now we need more to help in the efforts against IS/ Daish. The Swedish government was fast out and said that we should stand up. The Secretary of Defense told us to provide substantial military support. Now there was no deal. We Christian Democrats and the Alliance thought that we should heed the call for reconnaissance assistance that came from France and the United States as well. Now it was instead 50 – 100 SAC hours by transport flight, C-17. There was a small reinforcement with a staff officer in Mali. It became Herculesplan, one of those, not in spring or next autumn, but in 2017. Åsa Lindestam said in her speech that she was happy that it was a quick answer. We were third – at the bridge site – after Germany and the UK. But is it really a substantial military aid that is in accordance with 42.7?
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1487	Mr President, I would like to 42.7 is a declaration of solidarity in which you should be able to do what you can. That is exactly what we have done in this case. We have sat down with you, Mikael Oscarsson, and discussed what it could be. What has happened in France is terrible. You need support in many things, not just military. If we look at what they have requested, we see that it is a matter of relief in Africa so that they themselves can come from there. What we have come up with and the decision that the government has taken so far is good. I see that the reality out there is not standing still, but many things are going to happen. Then I think it's good that we meet in the spring too and wonder if it was right or if it would have been something else or something smaller. With regard to the Herculesplan that we will contribute in 2017– I think it was together with Norway and Denmark– it includes that we have a rotation of the plan. That means doing a job together, which is once again proof that we can do much more together. The parts that transport represents – this applies to both the SAC and Hercule – are a good thing. It has been said that we want transport opportunities, and we can do as we can. As far as Mali is concerned, we should be glad that we are able to contribute with the people with whom we contribute. I understand that it is not easy to expand and help in the part where we are now. There is a UN mandate that says that we cannot extend the mission that we are in further. France, on the other hand, wants us to go into their mission, but then we have to deal with French. It is not the easiest, because our working language in the military is normally English. It will be difficult to cope with speaking French in the way that is needed at a higher level. It'll be a concern for us. I believe that this provides substantial military support on the basis of what has been requested. I do not think we need to do any more at the moment. But of course we need to evaluate this, as Mikael Oscarsson says, and we will do so in the future.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1495	Mr President, I would like to Åsa Lindestam uses part of her reply time to talk about the problems that exist in Mali and the fact that you speak French. That's right, isn't it? So it would have been natural to do something that we can and control. We made an internationally recognised, important and good effort in Libya. That's probably why these countries had this in their sights – this is something that Sweden can handle and where we deliver. Our JAS planes work just fine. This is in demand. Then it is no wonder that we are being asked for support. I have a serious question. Does the Member of Parliament, Åsa Lindestam, not think that this could have consequences? That is a declaration of solidarity. Is not the measure we measure something that we can one day get back? Could it be that this actually changes these countries' view of Sweden in a negative direction? I am thinking of America in particular. We all know in this House that we are based on thinking that we are going to get help from America. We are not in NATO, but we still think we will get help. Couldn't this be a test of whether Sweden is a loyal partner? Could it not be that this is more important? Surely a declaration of solidarity is important, Mr President, but is it not also important to show America that we are doing something that is in demand? Can this have consequences for how these countries view Sweden?
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1500	Mr President, I would like to I was down and met our squad in Libya, and I know they were doing a great job there with reconnaissance flights. But, with the hand on your heart, weren't the Christian Democrats really a little early out saying that we should have reconnaissance down there? I think that if we had done what I said – calmed down a little, listened and read what you really wanted – we would have seen that we have responded to what France wants. With regard to the serious question raised by Mikael Oscarsson, I do not think that the United States will help those countries that do not contribute. But we are right now. But I think that countries think this way: can we together solve the problems that we have in some way? Is it so that both can benefit from it? Is it the case that three countries can benefit from joining forces, as I described we did with Hercule? Then I think you can help each other in many difficult matters. It's serious, but it's also a truth. If the United States can see that together we can do things well, they're interested in us. And we have to admit that they are interested in us, because we do good things and we have things that they are interested in, just as we have things that we need in those parts. I think this will work out that way. I noticed that Mikael Oscarsson didn't say NATO. I want to tell you that I was at NATO PA last week. Then the guys who represented NATO PA rose up. They went out in just a few minutes and disappeared. However, there was someone else who was very interested in us. So were the other countries. I think bilateral parts are very interesting. On the other hand, we may not always be able to get much help.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1507	Mr President, I would like to Sweden's security policy ultimately aims to guarantee its political independence and independence. It is about protecting people's lives and health, society's functions and our ability to uphold fundamental values such as democracy, the rule of law and human rights here in Sweden but also in the rest of the world based on our best ability. Threats to peace and security are best avoided in community and collaboration with others, although Sweden continues to be militaryly non-aligned. We implement this through our defence policy at home, but also through our support for, for example, the United Nations, which contributes to global peace, security and development. Almost a month ago, I participated in the Swedish Parliament's UN study programme, where for two weeks people can stay in the UN headquarters and attend meetings with representatives of different parts of the UN system. It was really instructive. What also struck me during the visits was how much praise Sweden receives for its humanitarian efforts, not least in Africa and the Middle East. Mr President, I would like to Take, for example, the Swedish stabilisation effort in Syria! Of course, it doesn't help directly, right here and now, on the battlefield. But this makes a substantial contribution to reducing the breeding ground for extremism in the longer term and reducing the recruitment base for Daish. It is the only way for us to solve the challenges we face in the long term and to create an opportunity for good forces to grow in Daish's place. These efforts not only meet short-term humanitarian needs, but also contribute in the long term to conflict prevention. It is important to keep it in mind in this debate too, because the better we are at preventing conflicts, the less resources and energy we need to spend on dealing with conflicts once they arise. Mr President, I would like to Through its membership of the European Union, Sweden also takes joint and several responsibility for the EU's peace and security and for the EU's ability to promote peaceful and democratic development in the world around us. This can be seen not least from the response presented today by the government to France's request under Article 42(7) of the EU Treaty. Other defence and security cooperation, such as the Nordic one, strengthens security in our neighbourhood, provides the opportunity to develop our military capabilities and contributes to qualified international crisis management operations. In addition, the importance of enhanced cooperation with Finland must be emphasised in this context. Mr President, I would like to It has been repeated several times in this House, but we can see that the security situation in Europe has continued to deteriorate. Against this background, the government believes that the Swedish defence capabilities should be strengthened, as is now taking place within the framework of the very broad agreement that the government has with the Moderates, Christian Democrats and the Center Party. These efforts involve strengthening defence capabilities through better access to maintenance and standard equipment, more and more qualified exercises and more sustainable staff supply. Mr President, I would like to At least as important is the civil defence and our ability to resist interference and prevent accidents and crises. The planning of the total defence shall resume and coherent planning of the total defence shall be ensured by planning instructions to the relevant authorities. It is a first step in the reconstruction of the activities and measures required in the framework of civil defence. The ability to deal with social crises in peacetime also provides a basic ability to deal with situations of increased preparedness. Within the framework of this work, we develop how risk and vulnerability analyses from authorities and municipalities and county councils can better be the basis for assessments of society's crisis preparedness and how they can form a strategic planning tool for developing society's crisis preparedness. Mr President, I would like to Another of the many challenges facing society relates to the consequences of a changed climate. A more extreme weather brings with it increased risks for different types of disturbances for society that can have serious consequences. In order to meet these challenges, we make the assessment that an increased focus on climate adaptation and prevention is required. As a result, the Government is making a major effort on the appropriation for preventive measures against, for example, landslides and other natural disasters for the period 2016– 2019. This also allows municipalities to expand their measures to deal with this. Finally, Mr President, it is about what is perhaps the most important thing for me. It is that the military freedom of alliance remains. It would be extremely serious if Sweden were to send out signals at this point that risk escalating the already tense situation around the Baltic Sea. That is why I am proud that the door is still closed for a Swedish NATO membership.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1520	Mr President, I would like to When I wrote my essay, I sometimes got the criticism: deviation from the subject. Sometimes I almost think that the debate deserves the same judgment. But it is therefore about France. I would like to say that I think it has been good action by the government. There have been good discussions and good information. We end up at a bridge site, out of 28 countries. Oh, my God! If it goes equally well in the European Championships in football, I will be very pleased, I can talk about. This is an important contribution. It is a quote from the French Government, but they may not know what they are talking about. There are no JAS planes that should spin around. On the other hand, there is strong investment in civilian reconstruction in both Syria and Iraq, which almost nobody wants to talk about. But perhaps that is the most important effort we can make in the long term to reduce the threat of terrorism. There were many good reasons, I mean, not to send JAS planes to Syria. The first is that international legal support is rather weak. That support is, or should be, a prerequisite for any further discussion. Would more fighter planes be sent to an airspace that is already teeming with them without coordination, direction, coordination and so on? Russia, Great Britain, the United States and Turkey are there spinning. I do not think it is a major deficiency, frankly, in Syria or in the airspace over Syria. Of course you should be a little camera. 250 – 350 million is money too. And with the Afghanistan decision taken earlier today by a majority in the Swedish Parliament, the money is over. To make a line of this: Can I take it that Jakop Dalunde and the Green Party share this analysis, and how does Jakop Dalunde view the future?
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1526	Mr President, I would like to I must honestly say that it was a bit difficult to crystallize exactly what was the actual issue. It sounded most praiseful of what the government is doing and what I myself am saying, so I regret to have to ask Mr Henriksson to repeat the question a little more clearly.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1527	Mr President, I would like to I can understand Jakop Dalundes's confusion, if we say so. However, given that I see it as a deviation from the subject of debating this at all, it may be natural to take the chance. I wonder whether Mr Dalunde shares the analysis that I have done; I assume that in view of what he has said. But I also want some discussion about the future. It is said that this is step one and not step one. There are some different balls in the air here, to add to a sport I just mentioned, and it may be interesting to hear some thoughts about how the Environmental Party and Jakop Dalunde look at any future initiatives.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1529	Mr President, I would like to Then I understand a little better. It is therefore a question of the future of aid to France. I see that the honourable Member is nodding in agreement. Then I think it is a good attitude to regard this as a good first package. Then in 2016 we will simply evaluate how the situation develops. I do not exclude anything and do not close any doors, but I am willing to sit down and reason on various ways that Sweden can further contribute to assisting France.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1531	Mr President, I would like to I thought there were good things in the middle of Mrs Dalundes's speech, but the beginning and the end I have some objections to. In the middle he had quite a lot about total defence and civil defence, and that was something that, for example, his colleague Daniel Bäckström from the Centre Party highlighted in his speech. Nevertheless, I would like to sign it, because I think there is every reason for us to continue discussing it, because it is valuable and important. Now let me make a little more criticism. I also think that what is good about our defence agreement, which forms the basis of the defence decision we have taken, is the enhanced cooperation with other countries, our allies, not least with the USA and the transatlantic link that is being identified. I also want to see an expanded practice with our neighbors and close friends. It may be Finland, but it can also be Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and not least the United States. As has been mentioned earlier in the debate, we will now debate and take decisions in 2016 on the so-called host country agreement, which further facilitates and deepens this. Then I would still like to ask you a question of control. I have, of course, seen in the debate a number of environmental partners who are opposed to both the host country agreement and the link with the United States. Is it the whole Green Party government party that is behind the policy pursued, or are it well-chosen parts of the Green Party that support the defence orientation of which the Greens are part of the government base? Hostland agreements, in-depth exercise activities with the US, strengthening the transatlantic link – is it the policy of the whole green policy, or are it well-chosen parts?
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1538	Mr President, I would like to I myself became politically aware during the 1990s, in a time after the great show of strength during the Cold War when large parts of the wider left had a rather locked approach to the United States and then the Soviet Union. Maybe it wasn't so pronounced in the time I lived in, so I'm not raised with the same kind of fear of touch in front of the United States as others might have. At the same time, in a large part of my political commitment, I have been very critical of how the United States acted in relation to the invasion of Iraq and how it then handled its Middle East policy in particular. After the election of Barack Obama, one can still see that the US has had a much better political development, while we have seen that developments in Russia have become increasingly problematic. From that point of view, I do not see any further fear of touching the United States when it comes to practicing. Furthermore, I might add that we Greens often care about resource efficiency, and a good way to increase our military capabilities without spending too much resources is, of course, to practice with others and then gladly stronger parties, such as the United States. That is not something I am very strongly opposed to. However, it should be pointed out that different types of exercises can send different types of safety policy signals. It's another five that you have to consider.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1541	Mr President, I would like to Then I understand that Jakop Dalunde has no touch anxiety when it comes to the United States. But I must refer to what Jakop Dalunde said in his comment to Stig Henriksson : I did not really understand what Dalunde was trying to say. I asked a very specific question, Mr President. When it comes to in-depth exercise, in terms of strengthening the transatlantic link, when it comes to emphasising the specific cooperation with the US, which is entirely within the framework of the defence settlement and the direction we are taking – is it the policy of the whole Green Party or well-chosen parts of the Greens that are behind it? I would therefore like to come back to the Green Party. Is it all your politics or well-chosen parts of your party that are behind this? Mr President, I would like to I still find it interesting and a little revealing of Jakop Dalunde to mention that there is a touch anxiety in front of the United States. It does so in Swedish politics, and I also believe that it is partly an explanation, perhaps even to the package we now see as a presentation at the Lisbon Treaty and France's request 42. 7. There is a connection with the so-called letter of America, namely that the United States has also requested increased support and help in the fight against Daish. So I find it interesting and in some sense, Mr President, a little revealing that Mrs Dalunde spent two minutes talking about anti-Americanism and that he himself was not part of it. This means that he indicates that it is somewhere else. The question is therefore, Mr President: when it comes to more exercise, when it comes to strengthening the transatlantic link, when it comes to increased cooperation with the United States – is it the whole Green Party as the government party that is behind or well-chosen parts of the Greens? Mr Dalunde has two minutes to develop this.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1547	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr Wallmark, for this excellent opportunity to do just that! The thesis that it would be the so-called letter of America that underpins the government's line of not going ahead with a reconnaissance effort with the JAS plane I think is quite false. Rather, it is about the grey area of international law for such an effort and the lack of command and control. That's what's at the root of the government's failure to send JAS planes for reconnaissance. The host country agreement was signed by the bourgeois government just before the elections. It is up to the government to submit a proposal to the Riksdag to deal with it. The preparation of this matter is currently taking place in the Government Office, and the government will return with it to the Riksdag.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1550	Mr President, I would like to My question would actually have touched on something else, but when I hear Jakop Dalunde say that it is a grey area of international law and that this prevents the government from deciding on an operation with JAS Gripen in Syria and Iraq, I will add a question to the planned question. I would like to ask whether it is Mr Dalundes's view that what France, the United Kingdom and several countries in the framework of the broad coalition are now doing in Syria and Iraq is in conflict with international law. Mr President, I would like to I heard Jakop Dalunde say that he was very pleased that the freedom of alliance was established. I was going to read some line from a committee directive that was decided on 12 November 2015 by the government – collectively as always – Prerequisites according to the government form for enhanced defence cooperation. A special investigator shall analyse the conditions under the government form for Sweden, provided that necessary political decisions are taken, to act with military resources with other states to face an armed attack on one of the states and to prevent violations of one of the states' territory in peace and during war between foreign states. ..................................................... Is it, Mr President, freedom from entering into an alliance with NATO that Mr Dalunde is safeguarding, or is it the military freedom of alliance more generally?
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1555	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr Widman, for the question. The short answer is that it is essentially about NATO.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1556	Mr President, I would like to Exciting things can happen in the Swedish parliament even late in the evenings. I will, of course, try the corresponding question on the Minister for Defence a little later, but it is very interesting to hear that the Green Party considers itself prepared to give up the right of mutual alliance, for as far as it is not a question of membership of NATO. That's great news. Jakop Dalunde has one last line left, and I would be grateful if he would elaborate on the second question I had, namely whether he believes that what Britain and France are now doing in Syria and Iraq is in conflict with international law or not.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1558	Mr President, I would like to No, I have no comment on what France is doing. I have no reason to criticise France. If Sweden is to send a JAS plan, we need to make an evaluation from our perspective on international law. I trust the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' international law experts, who tell me that it is stretching international law for Sweden to do so. It's a public-law grey area. I simply trust that assessment. It should be added that it is also about the lack of command and control, that there are currently no necessary systems to have transparency in decision-making and to ensure that the action is taken adequately.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1561	Mr President, I would like to The basis for the government's work on Category 6 and on the future of the armed forces is, of course, the orientation proposal. The government takes its starting point in the world changes with which we live. It is mainly about the Russian activity in our neighbourhood. We note that the annexation of Crimea is final proof that Russia is prepared to use its military capability to achieve political ends. We also note an increase in practice and intelligence activities in our neighbourhood, in the Baltic Sea region, and this naturally places increased demands on the Swedish Armed Forces. We are deepening cooperation with Finland, and we are implementing a wide range of measures to open up to deepen cooperation. Among other things, we conduct an investigation to see the legal conditions for doing these deepenings, using each other's infrastructure and using each other's ports and air bases in different ways. We train units together on the airside, the army side and the marine side. We're looking at scenarios beyond peacetime conditions. We are strengthening cooperation in the Nordic countries, we are deepening cooperation with the Baltic States, we are active in NATO's partnership and we are trying to develop the transatlantic link on the basis of the parliamentary decision taken. It is therefore about exercise activities, research, materials, interoperability and international operations. When we look at the situation in our neighbourhood, we can see that large exercises are carried out. In June 2014, there was a Russian emergency control with 65 000 soldiers, 5 500 vehicles, 180 aircraft and 60 helicopters. In March 2015, there was emergency control in the Arctic with 38,000 soldiers. In May 2015, it was time for the central militia. We've had emergency control in Kaliningrad. In August this year it was a landing exercise in the Baltic Sea, a great military exercise called Center, a Belarusian exercise called Union Shield and the autumn exercise of the Baltic Sea Marina. There are many activities going on all the time. From the Swedish side, of course, we participate in extensive exercise activities together with other countries. Each such exercise is to be regarded as a security policy signal that functions balancing in the broad perspective. What we have before us now is Cold Response 2016 in February in Norway. We have Swefinex 16 in May. We have the Open Spirit exercise in May in the Baltic Sea linked to Lithuania. We have a brigade combat exercise in May – June in Skövde. We have Baltops in the Baltic Sea in June. We have an exercise called Anaconda in Poland in June. We have the Air Force exercise in August – September. We have the Northern Coast in September. We have Swenex in November. And we have an operational management exercise in November. These are some of the major exercises. This is accompanied by extensive practice activities throughout the Nordic perspective, which should also include the Baltic States, Poland, Germany and Denmark when assessing the overallness and power of the business. All of this is balancing exercise with weight and weight. What we are working on to execute the defense decision and to increase our military capability is to conduct war unit exercises so that all units are trained. Here, money is set aside from 2016 until 2020. We will establish a light motorized shooting battalion that is also airborne. Money is set aside from 2016 to 2020. For a combat vehicle-mounted grenade launcher system, money is set aside from 2018 to 2020. For trams, a 36-metre and two 14-metres, money is set aside from 2016 to 2020. For improved anti-tank capabilities, money is set aside from 2016 to 2020. For the battle group on Gotland, money is set aside from 2016 to 2020. For mortars in the Home Guard, money is set aside in 2016 to 2020. The same year applies to personal equipment, modification of corvettes so that full corvette ability for surface combat, air defence and submarine hunting can be maintained. Money is set aside in 2016–2017. In the case of submarine hunting capability, five guardboats are extended half-time. Six guard boats become buoys. Anti-subtle grenade launchers are installed on mine clearance vessels, and sensor chains are built up. Money is allocated for the years 2016– 2020. The underwater sensors will be delivered in 2017 – 2018. There is more money available for the maintenance of transport flights between 2019 and 2020 and for the deployment of air bases between 2017 and 2020. All that was included in the specialization bill is under management. There's a plan. Of course, we may face shifts, costs and delays in various projects. But we'll have to deal with that at that point. We shall have open eyes that such situations may occur.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1574	We follow the planning that the focus decision entails. It is the fundamental task of the government to enforce the decision. We have also delivered the basics for starting a job in terms of total defence planning, and we will receive the first report on that work on 10 June next year. We have set up investigations that we agreed on in the work on the specialization bill. These include financial management of FMV, review of equipment and logistics, sustainable human resources provision, defence research and development, and enhanced defence cooperation. We are fully in the executive phase in this regard. This is the main task we have. I have also made it clear today for all personnel at the department that this is the main task in the coming period and that much effort must be put into monitoring and evaluation. When it comes to the military operation which in itself is not handled in this forum but which has been commented on quite properly, I can say that military transport via C-17, for which we set aside time in 2016, is a military matter measure. Military transport 2017 with TP 84 or C-130 is also a measure of military substance. The material which is classified and must be handled via the ISP and which must also be submitted to the Riksdag is of such a kind that it contains clear military substance. I just want to clarify these pieces, so that you don't try to reduce what is now being done. The measure in respect of materials is in fact requested by France. They are as it has been said: an evaluation will be carried out. As far as the future is concerned, I do not promise anything, but I do not exclude anything either. Of course, things should be financed. But there is also something called 2017 in this context. It depends on the perspective you put into it. As I said, I do not exclude anything, nor do I point out anything at this point. I don't make any time other than an evaluation. The French have announced that it is an important contribution that is being made. They have formulated themselves as follows: This is gratifying and shows the common will of France and Sweden to strengthen efforts against IS/ Daish and to stabilise the situation in conflict areas such as Mali and Central Africa. Now we have taken the first step. Then we will follow developments and see how we will remedy this in the future.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1580	Mr President, I would like to It is with some excitement that three fifths of the so-called defence group have now pressed for a line. It will be interesting to follow. I listened very carefully to the Minister for Defence's account of what could be considered military substance in the contribution to France that the government has presented today. However, as a complement to that report, I must ask the question: Does the Minister for Defence feel satisfied with what Sweden is now contributing, the hand on the heart? We were just able to hear Mr Dalunde explain that the reluctance towards military alliances that the Green Party feels most closely concerns the transatlantic security organisation NATO and not so much other possible alliances. I recently read from a directive that the Minister of Defence has given to an investigator. It is not about the legal issues, Mr President, but about how compatible with the form of government an optional defence alliance with another country is. In my opinion, therefore, it is a constitutional issue to be investigated. It's surprising, you might think, because it's the Department of Defense that's setting up the investigation, but it's also exciting. My question to Peter Hultqvist in this part is: If the investigation delivers results, is it the government's intention that Sweden should enter into a unilaterally proclaimed defence alliance with Finland?
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1584	Mr President, I would like to Sometimes it gets very strange, Allan. We agree with Finland that what we do is not about a defence alliance. We are now making scenarios beyond peacetime conditions. If we then make use of those options in a crisis situation, we will then decide on something. Here there is no hidden process going on with some strange kind of agenda in the background. But we have to clear up the legal possibilities of all the collaborations we are now starting. That's what it's all about. This also does not open a back door to NATO or to anything else. NATO requires specific decisions, specific arrangements and specific application procedures. I think you're twisting this in such a way that it suits your purposes, so that it'll go well to attack in some way. But this is the background and the perception. You ask me if I'm happy. No, I'm not satisfied until IS/ Daish is destroyed and we somehow have solved the problems down there. Now we from the government have made a first package. We have also promised an evaluation that we will eventually take a position on. Then we'll see how we move on. I would like to point out that France has welcomed the contribution that we have now made and stated that it is pleasing and shows the cooperation that we have between France and Sweden.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1587	Mr President, I would like to On one point, I am prepared to agree fully with the Minister for Defence: there is no reason to feel satisfied until Daish is defeated in this region. But now that wasn't my question. The question was whether the Minister for Defence, with his hand on his heart, was satisfied with what Sweden is now prepared to contribute to France. It's a completely different question. I read from the directives before, Mr President. It is about the possibility, provided that the necessary political decisions are taken, of acting jointly with another state with military resources to face an armed attack on one of the states. I cannot see this in any other way than that it is a conditional or optional defence alliance that the government now intends to investigate. Then my question is anew, because it has not been answered, Mr President: is it the intention of the Swedish Red-Green Government, as a result of this investigation, to unilaterally proclaim a conditional defence alliance with Finland?
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1590	Mr President, I would like to I don't know how to be clear with Allan Widman. There is no defence union agreement or discussion of this between the Finnish Government and the Swedish Government. We have not made such an agreement. I have said all along on this issue that we are doing what we have agreed now, and these are options for scenarios beyond peace-time conditions. There's no commitment to any defense alliance. If it is the case that, in a possible future, we should come to that kind of discussion, then we will have to address it. But there is nothing planned and discussed today, either above or below the surface. When it comes to this with your hand on your heart, you have to see everything in a process. These are long-term arrangements. I am pleased with what we have come up with now, but this may take a long time, and we may also have to come up with other things for it to work. These questions are just trying to push, picture divisions, and play out different people and different parts of the government against each other. The government agrees with what we have now put in place. Then we have said that we are ready to come back and move on. But what it should look like and how it should be done, we will take a decision on whether or not it should be. I can say to Mr Wallmark right now that, in that case, financing issues will be resolved. There will be suggestions and ideas on how to do this. I would also like to emphasise that there is a new budget for 2017.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1594	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for Defence's inventive and innovative ability to replicate the replicator even before the same speaker's seat is taken over. But that's right. I was going to ask you questions about the economy. I just came here later. A few days ago, when I was preparing for this expenditure debate, I was going to pay tribute to Peter Hultqvist. I think there are several of us who have been involved in achieving something good, namely the defence settlement. I also think that the list given by the Secretary of Defence for a few minutes indicates this. Although I am disappointed with what the government has told me today in responding to France's request, I will nevertheless say something kind, Mr President. What the Secretary of Defense listed was good. There is reason to be proud of that part of the defense arrangement. Not least, I would like to underline what the Minister for Defence said about the exercise activities, both the own war unit exercises in Sweden and the international exercise activities. I want to see more of it, and I am quite convinced that the Minister for Defence himself wants to see more of it. However, Mr President and the Minister for Defence, I must say that I find the package referred to today by the Minister for Defence inadequate. We receive a request from France, in the trauma that Paris finds itself after 13 November 2015, and the Minister for Foreign Affairs promises a Hercules plan in 2017. Then there are some other things, including the tactical transport plane C-17, which is located in Pápa in Hungary. What a good thing that the alliance government carried it through, under resistance, I think, from the Social Democrats! Now there is the plane, and it can be promised. I would like the Minister for Defence to shed some light on the funding in case we need to do something in 2016. For my part, I am not prepared to take money from national defence to international activities.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1599	Mr President, I would like to I appreciate the positive words from Wallmark. I can counter by saying that I very much appreciate the broad cooperation and the work that we can do together in the defence group. We last had a meeting today that I thought was constructive and good. There, the more bilateral cooperation was discussed. On the occasion of the debate earlier today, let me say that the work that is being done within the framework of the NATO partnership, and what we agree on, will continue. The agenda and plan that we are working on together with the United States will be continued and implemented. It is important that we also stand for those parts of the deal. When it comes to the economy, everything in this world is to be financed. I've explained in the past that we have to stand for the defense settlement. That's the whole input value on my part and on the government's side. If there are then things to be done, we must have an idea and a proposal for funding. I assume that, in such a future situation, we will have to discuss how this is to be done. I want to point to the time beyond 2016. There is also something called 2017. I believe that the fight that is now taking place will not be concluded with immediate effect in the coming year.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1603	Mr President, I would like to Yes, there is absolutely a time beyond 2016. 2017 is a good example of that. However, things can already occur in the world around us in 2016, both positive and negative, which requires international efforts. The Minister for Defence himself has said that there may be more packages, and other Social Democrats, such as Åsa Lindestam, have said that it may be a start. I appreciate what the Secretary of Defense says, that we do not touch what is in the defense settlement. If there are new costs in international operations, we must try to find alternatives. I promise that the Moderates in a spring change budget will be very constructive in terms of expenditure accounts which we could reduce and which are not in the Armed Forces' field and that is what we have. Mr President, I would like to The Secretary of Defense says he won't be happy until ISIL/ Daish is defeated. Let me say that I share that view. It will therefore be interesting to see in the light of this how Sweden responds to the requests that have come from the United States regarding the international fight against ISIL/ Daish. With regard to the discussion we had yesterday on the Iraq bill, which unfortunately the Minister of Defence could not enjoy because he was at a People's and Defence Party, I can mention that some Members felt that there was no need to emphasise the military component so much. If you are to do as the Minister for Defence says, namely fight ISIL/ Daish, it very much requires a clear military component. It is well in the light of what I would have liked us to have been clearer and faster than we are now with what we are delivering, now that we are setting the standard in relation to France's request. I don't mind what we give to France. I'd like to give more. That is why I am quite convinced that if France were to consider what we are doing today as an important contribution, if we had done more, they would not have changed their mind, but would have thought that it would have been an important contribution as well. I'd like to thank the Secretary of Defense for the line shift.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1609	Mr President, I would like to It is a good thing that Mr Wallmark and I agree on the wording, a significant contribution, that we have noted that it is said on the French side. It is a good platform for further assessment and possible further discussions on this matter. With regard to the debate on Iraq, which, unfortunately, I was unable to attend, I can say that it must of course be military components of it. That is absolutely crucial. I have visited the unit myself in northern Iraq. I have received comments from the peshmerga n. I have received comments from the Iraqi leadership. I've met the American general in the area. I've met our unit. I've had a proper review of the situation there. Of course it has to be a military component that is strong. The coalition there is necessary to keep the area pole. Peshmergan can't do that job alone. There is a need for action in many places. When assessing Sweden's combined efforts, we may not only focus on the contribution we make to France in the emergency situation, but also take note of the decision on the operation with the soldiers we have in northern Iraq. Perhaps we should also look at what we are contributing in Mali. And in relation to the outside world, one might also value the long-term engagement, 14 years so far, in Afghanistan. All that I know is important in international contexts for the assessment of Sweden's overall willingness to contribute in different contexts. If it sounds like the contribution to France is not at all satisfactory and everything is therefore being destroyed, I would like to say that this is not the case. We have the full range of measures that should be taken into account when assessing the whole issue. I am pleased with what the government has come up with, but I am open to evaluations and a future continuation.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1614	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by agreeing with Mr Wallmark's positive words on the list made by the Minister for Defence at the beginning of his speech. The defense arrangement became a trend break. Not least about the emphasis on practice– without practice no effect. This also applies to the robust way in which the Minister of Defence had during the first year of his work as Minister of Defence. In view of the firm and pragmatic approach often expressed by the Minister for Defence, I was therefore surprised that there was no more support requested by France, and also America. The Declaration of Solidarity is very clear that a country has the right to ask for help, and the Minister of Defence also said that he is not satisfied until Daish/ IS is wiped out. Is it not a bit thin that it was only the 50 - 100 hours? We have had to explain to us that it takes about 20 hours per trip, so it may be five six transports. There are also some officers in Mali. And that's Hercules planet, but not in spring, not next autumn, but in 2017. Is that a relevant response to France's request for solidarity? Is the Minister of Defence really satisfied and thinks it is a substantial military contribution?
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1617	Mr President, I would like to Oscarsson missed an important thing in the package, and that was the material. I have tried to explain in various contexts, so also at the press conference today, that it is something that I believe has a clear military substance. The matter is confidential and must therefore be dealt with in accordance with those rules, but I can say that it is clearly and deeply requested by France. I think that you should also count in when you assess the whole so that you have everything when you speak about what is good and what is bad. I think the effort we are now making is a good start. That is something that I and the government are behind. But we also say that we will evaluate and return. Let's see what we're doing for our position. I don't want to rule out or point out anything. This is the basic approach. When assessing Sweden's capacity for solidarity and commitments, I would like to point out that we need to see what we have done over the years and what we are involved in for other types of international operations. It is also a sign that Sweden in different situations is prepared to contribute. It is nice that Mikael Oscarsson points out that we have now done a trend break together. I appreciate that cooperation. I think it is constructive, and we have a good dialogue on the implementation of the orientation proposal.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1621	Mr President, I would like to I do not really understand this with Sweden's support to France in the fight against IS/ Daish. After all, France was clear with the reconnaissance section, and what came from America was in line with it. For Sweden, it is important to be a good partner. Isn't this supposed to be a test on this particular thing? There are several countries that look very closely at Sweden's response. For example, I think that the Baltic countries are looking at Sweden's response. We made an important effort with reconnaissance in Libya. It was requested and very important. I think that is why this request came. I would like to ask you a question. Does the Minister of Defence not see that there may be problems with how France and perhaps above all America sees Sweden when the reconnaissance effort is not taking place? If the Secretary of Defense now says that he is not satisfied until Daish/ IS is wiped out, would we not be able to make a better contribution than what is being delivered today?
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1625	Mr President, I would like to As I have said before, France's comment is that it is a valuable contribution: it is gratifying and shows the common will to strengthen efforts against IS/ Daish and stabilise the situation in the conflict area. So it is not a bad judgment we get from France here. This is not the only international effort we make, but all the efforts we make are important and are a way of helping to stabilise in different parts of the world. As in previous cases, we will ensure that we also deliver and implement what is now agreed. This is not always the case if you see how international operations work worldwide. This is a first step. It is a concrete contribution. I also think that the material contribution must be valued in the argument put forward by Mikael Oscarsson. The material contribution is in deep demand and has a clear military substance. Unfortunately, it's classified, so I can't talk about it in full in the role I'm in now. What we do will always be valued in different countries. We do many things across a wide field, including those concerning our own military capabilities. The overall assessment of Sweden must probably be based on all of this. What I have got back over the years is at least that we are perceived as a good partner in different contexts. We will continue to work further in that spirit and in that direction, as we have said in the orientation bill.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1629	Mr President, I would like to I thought I'd change the theme. I would also like to thank you for the very constructive talks this year, both before and after the defence decision. It is about both Swedish defence capabilities and our international efforts, as well as long-term work to make it as good as possible. I am also thinking of total defence planning and the missions given by the government to state authorities involved in this work. After some 20 years of strategic timeout, there is an enormous amount to collect and analyse and take stock of the total resources in municipalities, parishes, regions and also nationally. At the beginning of December, a reply was received from MSB's Director General, who announced that it had cancelled the large collaboration exercise that had been planned for over a year, which would involve about a hundred actors at all levels in Sweden: 55 municipalities, Västra Götaland region, the County Administrative Board of Västra Götaland, Värmland and Halland. It would be an exercise to test preparedness on the civilian side and also to develop the work together. It refers to a lack of resources and a lack of time due to the migration situation and that it does not have the resources to complete the exercise. I would like to ask my question to the Minister for Defence on the basis that we share responsibility. The committee is responsible for the whole, and together with Minister Ygeman Minister Hultqvist is an important actor in the government in order to get total defence planning to develop. Then my question is whether there is any perspective on the fact that it is now announced that you cannot carry out an exercise that you have planned for more than a year.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1634	Mr President, I would like to I am not up-to-date about this exercise in detail, but it is an exercise of great scale, and it feels as if it was well motivated in thought and planning. Now this concerns the responsibility of another minister. It is not under the Ministry of Defence, and for that reason I am not going into any detailed discussion on this. However, I would like to say one thing: we must put in place a comprehensive defence plan. It is about having a civil defence that supports the military defence, so that the military defence of Sweden can work in a possible crisis situation. It is also a question of building a civil defence and preparedness that can be active in the context of forest fires, major accidents or interference of some unforeseen kind. Here, then, we have an improvement potential of the greater kind. If we look at what this looked like at one time, we can see that this included companies of the most different kinds, authorities of different kinds, municipalities and county councils. There were total defence exercises involving both military and civil defence as a whole. I am not saying now that we can get back to this with immediate effect, but we must, on the basis of our conditions and conditions, start a basic planning and create a basic idea of this. The first task is to take the first step in such a process.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1637	Mr President, I would like to This is extremely important, and we will help each other in the best way possible for this to be as good as possible. We need it both in the short term and in the long term. If an authority chooses to interrupt an exercise that has been planned for so long, it may ask itself what the conditions are for today to deal with a situation where a number of crises occur at the same time. We need to know that several crises can be dealt with at the same time, also in order to meet the needs arising from the link between the military and the civilian. We have to plan for this, which I think will be a very important task. I can inform you that the County Administrative Board of Värmland and the County Governor of Värmland have decided to conduct a regional exercise in which it is hoped that municipalities, county councils and police will participate. It is important to trim the local work. A contribution that I have received, including from crisis preparedness coordinators in the municipalities at home in western Värmland, is: When we think forward about total defence planning, it is important to also think about reciprocity, and how we as a civil society should support the military, and how we can find infrastructure initiatives and arrangements that enable us to resource efficient and optimise planning so that it benefits the ongoing civilian preparedness work that the municipalities do, for example in order to manage extraordinary events in peacetime. Given that it's about many enthusiasts – who are often involved in several associations that are linked to the work on total defence planning, including in companies – and it's important to be able to make the best use of that commitment, it's important to think about reciprocity, think in both directions to be able to secure and stabilise the work and also reduce the vulnerabilities in our society.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1642	Mr President, I would like to I understand that Daniel Bäckström and I really have the same views and focus on this and that it is now about doing a job properly. Without having any deeper knowledge of it, I think: If the County Governor of Värmland is now taking the initiative to practice the municipality, police, county councils and various actors in a major civil defence exercise, it is an excellent contribution to trying to get this type of process started in Värmland. I think there is every reason to look at what can be done at the county administrative level. But I have also had contact with one of the managers of a county administrative board in Sweden as late as this week about this type of question and notice the questions and the way in which to reason that there is an increased interest and some expectations. My message is: You must start looking at what you think you can contribute, and what kind of ideas do you have? From a local and regional perspective, we need to start thinking about: How do we develop this? We start from a low level with great potential for improvement. I believe that an extremely important part is to stimulate different forces to start thinking in these terms. It is just a big step forward and a way of raising public awareness of their opportunities. I'm really looking forward to this job. I now hope that the task we have given the government to the relevant authorities to start looking at this can be the first step in a longer work, which will probably go over a number of years to reach levels. Somewhere you have to start, and here, as I said, we have an improvement potential. I am pleased with your comments and contributions to this, Daniel Bäckström. Thank you very much.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1647	Mr President, I would like to Access to modern materials is a crucial factor in modern conflicts. This requires the Swedish Armed Forces to have access to relevant equipment that gives operational effect. They are important to maintain the material in so far as it is relevant and that the replacement of the material is primarily done by purchasing fully developed equipment and ultimately by self-developing material in Sweden. The priority is designed to avoid the long lead times that self-development of materials entails, which we have several historical examples of in Sweden. Unfortunately, some development projects, such as Helicopter 14, have suffered from serious and challenging long delivery difficulties. Therefore, we consider moderates that the procurement competence of defence authorities needs to be reviewed. It is also important to protect our tax money so that it is used in the best possible way and gives us – if I may use the term that has been a bit popular in the last few hours in this House – the most bang for the money. We Moderates therefore believe that the management of the investments in equipment should take place as strategically and in the long term as possible, where the Riksdag may once per term of office take a position on a longer-term plan for investments. Mr President, I would like to In the defence allocation under Category 6, we moderates make a slightly different distribution. We want to give 20 million more to the Swedish Civil Protection Agency, MSB. The combined resources of military and civil defence constitute the total defence. Total defence is the activity needed to prepare Sweden for war and serious crises and is regulated by the laws relating to total defence and increased preparedness. As the world situation has deteriorated, the need to rebuild total defence has increased, not least in the light of the new warfare, where civilian and military capabilities are used in a more integrated way. It is therefore a good thing that in the defence agreement there is a proposal to resume planning for total defence. There is a need for a new and strong total defence. That is a priority for us Moderates. Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, the Swedish people's awareness of how to act in crises is far too low. On 8 December, the Committee on Defence held an open hearing on the follow-up that it had made to public information on the individual's responsibilities and preparedness. The follow-up has been given the title If the crisis or war comes. The hearing was attended by Director General Helena Lindberg from MSB. Through a company this year, the Agency has interviewed 2 000 people about their emergency preparedness. 47 percent had never considered how a long - term power outage would affect them. Only 30 percent thought they would be able to cope with a longer power outage. On the question of how they had prepared for a longer power outage, 20 percent talked about access to other light sources. 15% said they had access to a camping, gas or liquor kitchen. 12% had secured access to food and only 8% access to water. This was just about a slightly longer power outage. There are much worse and more far-reaching crises that can occur in our society. Only 2% had access to a radio that could be operated without electricity. This means that 98 per cent of Sweden's population would not be able to access information that is communicated. Today's mobile phones also have the right short battery life – we are all aware of that – and if the base stations are shut down, that way to information is closed. It is clear that there is a lot of work to be done to improve the awareness of the citizens, but also of companies and authorities. Small disruptions in vital systems can have major consequences already in peacetime. In the event of a major crisis or conflict, it is even more important that there is good preparedness. Mr President, I would like to In the Budget Bill, the Government notes that Sweden has signed a Memorandum of Understanding with NATO, Host Nation Support. This agreement regulates how the host country can provide effective support for military activities such as exercises or crisis management operations. It is good that the agreement is now in place, so that our ability to give and receive military assistance is strengthened. But we need to go further by developing a road map towards Swedish NATO membership. NATO is the basis of the European security structure. Within NATO, Europeans and North Americans from currently 28 Member States are joining each day around a jointly agreed security agenda and common commitments. As just a host country without full membership, we cannot count on support if someone were to attack our country. Nor are we in NATO's most important body, the North Atlantic Council. We have no influence whatsoever on strategic decisions. 75% of EU countries are currently members of NATO. Now it is also time for Sweden.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1660	Mr President, I would like to In my speech, I will focus essentially on the emergency preparedness of society. Normally, we talk a lot about the defence – materiel and war units. Mikael Jansson has spoken about the budget for this. I will start with the Swedish National Audit Office, which has said that the forest fire in Västmanland shows that preparedness for rescue operations was not sufficient. The county administrative boards are responsible for reducing the vulnerability of society. We know that. It also says that they will work to ensure that different actors around them will interact. Here I'm making a little stop. The word should be replaced by "co-ordination". I've said that many times here. As long as you interact, you can actually go in each direction, and then it's fine with that. But if you have a coordinating role in the county boards, you coordinate through officers. You say, "I hear what you're saying, but here's what we're gonna do. We need more coordination and, of course, cooperation. But there has to be a decision-maker. The government's control of the county boards means that they have a very large freedom to decide for themselves. There are advantages to this. But the National Audit also points to the disadvantages. There is extensive scope for interpretation, and it becomes associated with risks. This is what the Swedish National Audit Office points to. Prior to 2015, MSB has decided on new conditions for development projects that will run for four years. This can, of course, help to reduce some negative effects. However, the Swedish National Audit Office estimates that several of the problems are likely to persist due to the emphasis being placed on development work rather than on tasks to be performed. This is very serious. For the 2007 financial year, if you go back there, 14.7 million were transferred. This has been followed up, and the audit shows that the money went to other activities within the county boards, according to the Swedish National Audit Office. What do we want to do with defence and society's emergency preparedness? We want a new organization. Is there no competence at MSB? Well, there's a lot of expertise there. But we want a civil defence authority back with a civil defence manager and with a staff – competence can be taken from MSB – with a clear coordination responsibility between county boards. The county administrative boards shall have increased planned responsibilities. You can do as you did in the past with the promotion of service, i.e. that officers could serve on the county administrative boards. You can also imagine that they are employees there, with a clear responsibility to be a link so that the plans are jacketed together. We thought that was a good solution at the time, and we still think so. When you go back and look at evaluations of this you can see that it was good. We want the emergency services back, as has been said in another speech. It was phased out in 2012. We want it back, and we've budgeted for it. County administrative boards must establish emergency stocks with command. They must, with a coordinating responsibility, require municipalities to have a certain level of emergency stocks. We are working on this now, and in the spring we will have a thorough proposal. It will certainly also be of interest to the Minister for Defence how such a construction is to take place. We are working on this quite intensively now. Right now we think there are too many chiefs and too little Indians in the business. Let me give you a few examples. Contingency is important. But what happens if you're out of electricity for 72 hours? A lot of people don't get any water. They don't get hot food, and they get thirsty. Personal hygiene is being neglected. They won't get any heat in the winter. Some, such as me, who have electricity and wood, can burn in a stove and get heat. Then it is no problem to get heat. But not everyone has. What about the security alarms, fire alarms and burglar alarms? They're not working. You can't withdraw money either. How can you refuel? You can't pay by card, and you can't pump up fuel. Maybe there's some of those stations left. This is a huge problem. You can't even pay with cards in the store when you shop. We want a civil defence that can operate in different areas protected by, among others, emergency police. We want a civil defence to be built up so that water can be delivered and so that you can cook some meal a day through field kitchens and field bakeries. It was in my day, although many think it was a long time ago. There were slaughterhouses. We had abattoir platoons when I was in military service, and the cows were cut up. The meat was not very tender, but it was possible to eat. We need to think a little wider to make it work. You have to be able to evacuate the elderly and sick when lifts don't work in high-rises. We have to think about all these things, and we have to have a plan to improve this. The municipality must have stands for the civilian defence equipment. It could be a cargo exchanger, a truck, a water transport vehicle and so on. There were plans for this earlier, and we are working on re-establishing this. In the case of the voluntary fire brigade, Finland has 500. We've got about 200. So there is a lot to do. With this, I would like to say that the Swedish Democrats believe that without a functioning civil defence we will not be able to defend the country either. There will be tremendous strain. We have to deal with this. I know the Secretary of Defense is doing this and I take this seriously. We also believe that we have the right Minister of Defence to address these issues. I would like to make a small digression, even if I get barking, and that applies to Russia. You have to try to broaden your vision when you look at Russia and try to understand. I am not defending what has happened in Crimea and Ukraine. But what about Crimea and gas to Ukraine? Ukraine was previously part of the Soviet Union. You see a rapprochement to the West. What does that mean by extension? Does this mean a rapprochement with the EU, a rapprochement with NATO – Crimea – NATO? You think in these ways. Again, you have to expand your analytical ability to try to understand the other side. I say this without defending it in any way. But you can take this with you in the future when you consider the consequences of different movements.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1683	Mr President, I would like to The fact that the new staff supply system, which has replaced the dormant military service system, would mean a general increase in the quality of the service, is an important factor. It is a myth spread by the former liberal bourgeois government to defend a reform based on ideology and not based on rational decision-making. The fact that the decision lacked a real basis has today been proven. Large holes in the war units, recruitment problems and costs are the result. The current government is taking steps to address the problem at least to some extent, including by re-establishing refresher exercises for the conscripts who remain in the Swedish Armed Forces' rolls. This means that we see a certain light in the otherwise dark tunnel. What is unfortunately smolk in the cup is that the government has set up an investigation that is not actually needed and which delays the reactivation of military service. What is being investigated, among other things, is a system for conscripts and liaisons with employees to operate side by side. I would like to draw the attention of the government to the fact that we already had this type of system during the military service, in which conscript soldiers could be enlisted as standing units. The foreign force and so on are examples of this. The Swedish Democrats advocate the immediate reactivation of military service. This means that compulsory military training will be reinstated in 2017. The recruitment authority and the Swedish Armed Forces will then have more than a year to prepare themselves. We want GSS/T, i.e. at times employees, to be phased out and replaced entirely with GSS/ P, i.e. conscripts, in the long term. GSS/ K, i.e. continuously employed, is recruited from the hills with conscripts trained each year. A combination with conscripts as a base and with continuous employment in addition to that is therefore our proposed solution. Those soldiers who were usually of the highest quality when we had military service would never have thought of doing military service if they had not been called up for duty. I myself have trained and deployed soldiers in both the new and the old systems, and I know that military service allows for a broader and, above all, greater recruitment basis. With military service, we'll take out the most suitable ones. This does not happen with the current voluntary system. In addition, which is quite important, a military service system is significantly cheaper than GSS/T soldiers, for example. Something that is cheaper and, at the same time, better than the current system should be desirable for those people who want a working defence. Reactivation of military service will increase and improve the selection of the tribal units as well, and this will ensure that the military units are filled in person in both categories. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats' proposals in the field of defence policy will generate a much higher level of defence capability than the defence agreement's proposals. The Swedish democrats are presenting a draft budget that properly establishes the possibility of reaching a defence grant of at least 2% of GDP in the ten years to come, and I would stress at least there. In order to highlight the differences between the comprehensive defence we advocate in 2026 and the one-week defence agreement possibly achieved at the same time, we can compare how these differ strictly in relation to bonding. The proposal of the defense arrangement involves two mechanized army brigades, while our proposal involves eight mechanized army brigades. The defense deal's proposal involves an amphibious battalion, while our proposal involves five reduced amphibious brigades. The defense deal's proposal involves four submarines, while our proposal includes eight submarines. The proposal of the defense agreement involves six combat aircraft divisions, while our proposal involves eight combat aircraft divisions. This is only a sample of examples of how, unlike the defence settlement, we can in the long term get a defence that can defend the whole of Sweden. Mr President, I would like to We don't know how serious the situation is in one or two years' time. It's proven. We definitely don't know what it's going to look like in ten years. For example, the Turkish shooting of the Russian fighter aircraft and the warning shot by the Russian naval vessel against the Turkish civilian vessel have certainly not improved an already tense world position. The effectiveness and impact of the IS Terrorist Group have deteriorated and will seriously worsen not only in the Middle East and North Africa, but unfortunately also here in Europe and Sweden. Other disturbances that run parallel to this and have arisen in both Europe and Sweden may well lead the development in a direction we can never imagine. This means that we must be equipped to face both already identified threats and threats we cannot predict or believe today. Mr President, I would like to Sweden deserves to be defended, but there is only one party in the Swedish parliament that seriously wants to upgrade Sweden's defence capabilities. There is only one party whose policy will mean that war units are spread throughout the country so that we can defend ourselves in several geographical places at the same time. The Swedish Democrats are a few parties that can give our officers and soldiers the tools needed to defend Sweden.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1696	Mr President, I would like to In my speech, I intended to concentrate on the part of our defence that often falls a little into the shadow of military defence. It concerns the second leg of total defence – civil defence. Historically, civil defense may be associated with those pages of the telephone book, children who are drizzled in sheltering under school benches and emergency stocks filled with canned goods and other supplies. One might wonder what associations the concept of "civil defence" provides today. As has been done in the past, there has been only a very limited effort to plan and prepare civil defence. In defence and security policy, the importance of signals is usually pointed out, Mr President. With the new defence policy direction as well as the government's decision to reclaim the planning for total defence, we send out the signal that the whole of society has a role to play in the defence of our country. The planning instructions now provide a platform to build on. There is long-term work ahead of us, and there are many actors – public as well as non-governmental organisations – who over the past six months and the year have signalled that they want and can contribute their know-how and experience to strengthen society's defence capacity. I think it is important that we as decision-makers listen and try to channel the commitment that exists around civil defence. Civil defence takes its starting point in society's emergency preparedness and is more specifically the activities of state authorities, municipalities, county councils, individuals, companies, associations and others in peacetime to enable society to deal with situations in which preparedness is increased. As I said at the outset, there has been no planning for total defence for a long time. That is why it is not as easy as saying that we are now just picking up where we once left off. A lot of water has been running under the bridges, and the world has changed. Similarly, technological development has taken major steps. So it may also be suspected that there is a certain gap in knowledge and activity today. I think it is important that, in addition to planning, practice and knowledge acquisition, we work to ensure that a civil defence really becomes part of a new approach where we see that we are living in a more anxious and unpredictable time. We therefore need a total defence planning that is adapted for our new time, and it is important that the work is focused on helping to strengthen the Swedish Armed Forces' operational capabilities. Examples include transport, logistics, food supply, fuel, electricity, telecommunications and access to health care resources. Special abilities that have been identified in the Specialisation Bill are the need for a psychological defence that should ensure an open and democratic society, free media and free opinion formation. Analogously with the psychological defense lies also the ability to face, manage and in any sense fight back against advocacy campaigns. The clearest threat associated with technological development should be cyber and cyber threats, which are threats we see on an almost daily basis nowadays. At the central level, it is MSB, together with the Swedish Armed Forces, who has the task of planning coordination for the total defence, and on the basis of this planning, it is up to our monitoring authorities to make their own, more detailed assumptions within their respective areas of responsibility. Mr President, I would like to Finally, we could say that we are now pressing the starting button for the planning of the total defence. Now we are beginning the important basic work for the readmission of this very important capacity for our defence.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1705	Mr President, I would like to I thank Kalle Olsson for raising the subject we also see as very important. As has been said, the total defence rests on two legs, and civil defence is an indispensable part. We are generally grateful that this government and, in particular, the Minister for Defence have taken a holistic approach to this issue. It is a pity that the Minister for the Interior, who is partly also in charge of these issues, was not able to attend today. I was going to ask Kalle Olsson a short and concrete question. Civil defence was laid down more or less, unfortunately, and now we are trying to restart it. This may mean that some investment is needed to get a robust civil defence in place. Good words come along, but investment may also be needed. I know that we in our party are looking at the issue and that it is quite extensive and difficult to get a holistic approach to it. It takes a lot to get a grip on it, of course. I wonder whether the Social Democratic Party, Kalle Olsson, has a similar discussion within the party and whether it is prepared to push the question in the government to make any contribution to the means needed to restore robust civil defence.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1708	Mr President, I would like to As I said in my speech, we are now beginning by trying to build a bottom plate – a platform for further work. As I also mentioned, we have identified different areas where we see needs. I mentioned logistics, medical resources, food supplies, fuels and so on. There are many areas where we see needs. However, I think that at this point, when we have just pressed the start button, we should not stand and distribute money to different areas here and now. We are going to start with the basic work we have to do now, and we have to do it thoroughly. Then we will certainly come back to the House with proposals that carry on, and it is, of course, reasonable to assume that it will also be subject to costs.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1710	Mr President, I would like to Now I got about the answer I had in mind. I will not prolong the debate. It is good that at least it is aware that it will cost. We all understand that with regard to what you've lined up. There are a lot of other things, shelters and other things to be put into service. It won't be free. I understand it's complicated. There were hell r no exact figures that I demanded. That is something we need to deepen ourselves in. Thank you for your answer.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1711	Mr President, I would like to I don't think there's much more to add. Thank you for the question.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1712	Mr President, I would like to We in the Committee on Finance do not usually debate matters in which we agree. We tend to mark unity by not having a debate about them. In this case, however, we are making a small exception. This is a matter of revising the whole of the previous legislation that ensures that banks cannot go bankrupt and that there is protection in the system so that we do not get the kind of situations that have been experienced in the past. Mr President, I would like to We are now going to deal with the Finance Committee's report 17 Implementation of the crisis management directive. The bill is extremely comprehensive. I am in favour of the committee's proposal in the report, which is partly in favour of the government's proposal of the same name. The committee considered that the rules on risk charges laid down in the resolution law need to be further investigated and analysed, so that the criteria for risk charges are more clearly regulated by law. The report contains a separate opinion from the Left Party. Mr President, I would like to The banking and financial sector is invaluable for economic stability. Throughout history, banks' insolvency has led to sometimes prolonged economic downturns and depressions in the economy. There are two clear examples of this. The first is the big stock market crash in 1929, which meant that banks went bankrupt and the great 30s depression began. It is something that is well documented in the media, film and book form. The second example is Lehman Brother's bankruptcy in 2008. The result of this bankruptcy was that large parts of the world were going through an economic crisis that is not over yet. It is therefore important that society does its utmost to ensure that banks do not fail. That is what the report is about. Mr President, I would like to The proposal originates from a directive of the same name. There is every reason for this type of regulatory framework to be regulated at EU level. Most slightly larger banks are located in a European market. Most of the banks that are largely considered Swedish and have large Swedish ownership are also represented in several European countries in the same way as other European major banks sometimes exist on the Swedish market. It is in this situation that it is important to have a similar regulatory framework for the whole of the EU. This is mainly in order for banks and other financial institutions subject to this legislation not to be able to carry out their activities where the legislation is most advantageous for the bank. It is a question of competition neutrality in the EU's internal market. Mr President, I would like to Before this regulatory framework enters into force, we in Sweden have had a system where the banks have had great demands on internal controls. But we have also had a system that consisted of the state being able to take over all or part of a bank for a period of time and then sell it back to old or brand new owners after the crisis. It was a model that we applied during the economic crisis in the 1990s when several banks disappeared and then merged and sold after the crisis, usually under a new name. Sometimes the state has partly retained its ownership. It is a model accepted by both political parties and the market. The system has usually been hailed for providing economic stability. But it also places great demands on banks' owners to have well-managed and well-funded banks. Mr President, I would like to The European Commission's proposal for a directive on crisis management was essentially aimed at strengthening the supervision of banks but also at supporting banks more financially in so-called resolution. This opposed the then government most strongly with the strong support of large parts of the opposition and not least of us Social Democrats. The Swedish position was always that we should apply as far as possible the principle of resolution that Sweden had experience with. The then Swedish Prime Minister had broad support in the Riksdag and managed to negotiate an acceptable compromise that we are not satisfied with but can live with. Certainly the previous system would have served Sweden and probably Europe better. Now we have to deal with a proposal which is half-fine but which has been correctly used can be a powerful weapon to maintain financial stability. Mr President, I would like to The bill is very comprehensive, and the Riksdag is now establishing two new laws. It is, on the one hand, a new law known as the Resolution Act and, on the other hand, a new law on preventive state aid to credit institutions. In addition, Mr President, it proposes changes to a greater or lesser extent in 16 laws covering more than 130 pieces of legislation. The whole bill entails major changes and new routines for both banks and some other financial institutions. The new Resolution Act contains the four resolution tools. The sales tool means that the resolution authority can sell all or part of companies that are in resolution. The terms and conditions of such sales shall be commercial. The bridge institution tool is a new tool to transfer all or part of companies that are in resolution to it. This can be done by the transfer of shares or by the transfer of shares. The "separation tool" means the transfer of assets and, where appropriate, liabilities to an asset management company whose task is to settle in such a way that the value of the assets is maximised. The capture tool can only be used in combination with other resolution instruments. The bail-in tool allows the resolution authority to write down the liabilities of companies in resolution. Finally, there is the stabilisation tool, which allows the State to inject capital or temporarily take over ownership of companies in resolution. Mr President, I would like to The Government proposes that the National Debt Office become a resolution authority. As regards the new Act on Preventive State Aid, the major difference between the previous Act on State aid to credit institutions and the new Act on Preventive State Aid is that the Crisis Management Directive contains more and much more detailed rules. There is therefore reason to include these rules in a new law. Mr President, I would like to Finansinspektionen will have a new role in the supervision of banks and credit institutions. The new supervisory task is to have supervision on an ongoing basis and to assess in this supervision whether it is necessary to establish recovery plans and intra-group support agreements. Finansinspektionen must also be involved in the crisis management work, for example in consultation with the resolution authority. However, it has no powers to apply resolution tools or take resolution action. Credit institutions shall establish in the preventive phase a recovery plan to prepare for possible measures in the event of stress on institutions. The recovery phase begins when the measures set out in the recovery plan are put into effect. If the measures in the recovery plan are inadequate, the resolution phase begins. The recovery plan shall address to a large extent the governance and risk management of institutions. The aim is that institutions should already deal with type scenarios and appropriate measures to counter them. Mr President, I would like to In the previous one, I have described various instruments of resolution. The National Debt Office shall draw up resolution plans for credit institutions and shall present in them the resolution measures that the National Debt Office may take if the institutions fulfil the conditions for resolution. Mr President, I would like to The Crisis Management Directive addresses the issue of the financing of public intervention in financial undertakings in difficulty. The current system contains two elements: the Stability Fund, which can be used to provide support for credit institutions, and the Deposit Guarantee Fund, which is used to finance the protection of deposits. Following the transposition of the Crisis Management Directive, government intervention in the context of financial crises or crises in individual credit institutions shall be financed from three separate funds. Preventive State measures to finance support measures in non-resolution financial undertakings shall be financed from the Stability Fund. These may be guarantees and capital injections provided for preventive purposes. The Fund shall also be able to finance State aid in the use of the State stabilisation tool. The Deposit Insurance Fund shall be used to finance the remuneration of the Deposit Guarantee Fund and the protection provided by guaranteed depositors in the resolution. The resolution reserve shall be transferred from the Stability Fund and the net result of the support to Carnegie Investment Bank. Mr President, I would like to Credit institutions shall finance this resolution fund at 0,09 % of the fee base until the balance of the resolution reserve amounts to 3 % of guaranteed deposits. Thereafter, a risk charge shall be charged to credit institutions based on the risk of each credit institution. According to the EU crisis management directive, which is now being introduced into Swedish law, the fee for the resolution fund is to be charged as I have described in the previous one. However, there is nothing in the directive that provides for risk charges. Mr President, I would like to The committee agrees with the government that it is necessary to implement the crisis management directive as soon as possible. However, the committee has made some minor adjustments to the Resolution Act, the Banking and Finance Movement Act and the Securities Markets Act. In addition, the committee makes an announcement that the government will investigate the question of whether the criteria for risk charges in the resolution law are more clearly regulated by law. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I once again call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-88d8f1442fd8140a-1737	Mr President, I would like to It has been a long day's debate against night. I will try to avoid repeating what Börje Vestlund has already explained in a commendable way. This proposal is just as extensive and technical in nature as Börje clearly expressed. I will comment on a few points without being too repeated in my discussion. As Börje said, Sweden has a history and tradition of being able to handle banks in a good way. The State has not suffered any significant losses in this process. For this reason, I can agree with Mr Börje's view that we have reached a compromise with which we are not satisfied but with which we can live. Perhaps I am something more satisfied than Börje, and overall this is good. We agree quite well that in its main part it is a good proposal. There's a reason I'm a little more positive than Börje. As far as the crisis management process is concerned, we would have liked to see further steps on the part of the European Union towards the Swedish position. But in addition to that, we have a preventive part that I see adds some to the Swedish perspective. I argue that it has been good for the overall EU perspective that Sweden has pushed this directive in the right direction. The Swedish influence on this directive has been of benefit to the whole stability of an EU perspective, I would say. The very fact that this is being introduced at the European level is of benefit to stability in a wider perspective. We are living in the age of globalisation, so this is important given how closely all financial institutions are connected in a global context. We saw clearly how the Lehman crash spread rapidly throughout the world. In this context, it is important that we have equivalent minimum requirements in terms of crisis management procedures and preventive measures. In this sense, we must also say that the crisis management directive, which is now being introduced in Sweden and the rest of the EU – i and ig 13 months too late but nevertheless – is of great importance. There is also a value in that there is predictability. The whole point of introducing the Crisis Management Directive is that banks should know how to manage their risk control and governance. If we want to protect the consumer, reduce the implicit guarantee of the state and increase ownership, which is the three main elements of the crisis management directive, then the banks know what to do to minimise their risks. That's the preventive part. Here are the recovery plans that Mr Börje well outlined. It is important to bear in mind how risk control and governance are carried out in the banks. In addition to the fact that there are clear rules of the game and that there is predictability and a broader minimum requirement in the directive, which has some impact on risk-taking, the resolution fund, which Börje was also concerned with, is also being built up. Sweden has much higher ambitions than many other countries. We want to build up 3% of guarantee deposits in half the time where Europe has 1% in double time. It's good for a number of reasons. On the one hand, we have a larger resolution fund and, on the other hand, we have greater freedom to use our resolution fund because it is greater. We all agree on this, even if the part where we have even greater ambitions from the Swedish side. It's about the risk charge. There are no requirements for this in the directive, but it is a good ambition with a good approach. It is clearly stated that the purpose of the risk charge is to somehow steer the banks in their risk-taking. That's good. P the roblemet is just that there is not clearly defined how to do this. It is not clear from our point of view how risk-taking is to be assessed and how it is to be sanctioned. There we have – in an own committee, I would add – addressed an announcement to the government. They have had plenty of time, until 2017, to come back with how they want risk management to take place. It is more than five years before the risk fee is introduced, so there is plenty of time. We're looking forward to it. Just as I was in the past, it is important that there is predictability. For risk-taking governance, it must be possible for credit institutions to identify the way in which risks are to be managed. If this does not happen, there is a risk that there will be great arbitrariness here, given that it has been delegated. Anyone who has been given the opportunity to design the risk fees without further clarification of how it should be done is Riksgäldskontoret. I think this is important. If you want institutions to adapt over time to less risk-taking, it is important that there are clear rules of play. Of course, there is also a risk that it may be legally insecure. We want to analyse more carefully how there can be clearer governance, greater predictability and legal certainty in this. As I said, we are in complete agreement. It is an important directive, and that is why it has been important for both Mr Börje and me to say a few words about this. We agree in all parts, including the announcement. I therefore support the proposal in the report. While I am standing here and there is a paint for Christmas, I would like to take this opportunity to wish everyone who listens and everyone in this House, including Mr President, a really merry Christmas. I hope to see you again on the other side of New Year's. Happy New Year, everybody!
