i-b370d397a33e6fc4-11	Mr President, I would like to Now we are going to debate category 14, the labour market and working life. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 2 from the Moderates and the Alliance-wide reservation 11. The Swedish economy is in a reincarnation phase. GDP growth is relatively good, and the rise is explained by, among other factors, domestic factors such as increased household consumption and increased housing investment. The fiscal incentives of recent years, mainly tax cuts, have contributed to this. Exports have also been strengthened as the European debt crisis stabilised, which is to be welcomed. The number of employees also continues to increase, largely thanks to the important structural reforms carried out in Sweden before 2014. This is the bright picture of the labour market, Mr President. But there is another side too, which is somewhat darker. Let me mention three challenges that I see. First of all, we see an alienation emerging, a new alienation where mainly young people without upper secondary education but also born abroad find it very difficult to get a foothold on the Swedish labour market. Yesterday, the Swedish Public Employment Service's forecast showed that in just over a year's time, 2017, six out of ten unemployed people were born abroad. In October this year, 120 000 of those enrolled in the Employment Service had a level of education corresponding to the highest primary school, and this group is expected to increase. It is something to take very seriously, otherwise the risk of exclusion is spread out and the dependency on benefits is even greater. I would say that we have a job shortage for people with low levels of education. There are more than three people with short training per job with no specific qualifications required. It is clear that competition for jobs that do not require specific qualifications is great, but at the same time we need to increase the level of education of those who have the most difficult conditions: those who do not even have primary education. But we will still have a job shortage for them, because not everyone can or wants to train. The second challenge is that long-term unemployment is still far too high and that the way to work often feels difficult and long for those who have ended up in long-term unemployment. There are many who have been standing outside for a long time. Some of these are in the employment phase but need to move forward. We can never leave these people in passivity. The third major challenge for the future is that in a changing labour market that places increased demands, mobility needs to be increased, and we also need to enable a longer working life. Both women and men sometimes stay for too long in jobs they do not like, which can lead to ill health, or it is also about that you absolutely do not feel any job satisfaction and that it accepts going to work. Others are happy but still want to educate themselves and think that they should change careers in the middle of life, although they feel that the driving forces to do so are not big enough. Mr President, I would like to We Moderates here in Parliament have put forward concrete proposals in the Committee on Employment and other committees that can meet the challenges I have just mentioned. We propose a first-job contract, which is a completely new form of employment in LAS where you can learn the job at work and where you get education as a natural part of the job. It should also be open to companies that do not have collective agreements. We want the so-called professional introduction agreements to be extended to cover both new arrivals and the long-term unemployed. We want to see an education obligation, we want more places in both Komvux and the professional adult, and we want to change taxes and subsidies so that it pays even better to work, especially for those with the lowest incomes. We want to see more ways in for those who have fallen into long-term unemployment. We have a joint reservation in the Alliance about Samhall being allowed to work more on fixed-term contracts. At Samhall they are good at helping people who have been standing outside for a long time to come in. They should be allowed to do so even more. We also propose matching positions for the long-term unemployed. When it comes to improving mobility, we propose an extension of study aid to facilitate transition in the middle of life. We want more experienced people to be able to stay longer in the labour market, so we do not want to tax employers who have employees over 65 years of age. Nor do we want to impose penalties on those who remain in work; on the contrary, we want to strengthen the job tax credit from 64 years of age so that more people stay longer in the labour market. All this needs to be done in the Swedish labour market. Mr President, I would like to Much of what I have mentioned that needs to be done in order for more people to come into their own supply is outside of Category I4. It is about education policy, tax policy, enterprise policy and fiscal policy. But, of course, labour market policy is important, and many of the things I have mentioned are in this area. Properly designed, labour market policies can contribute to the proper functioning of the labour market, for example by equipping and matching the individual. But one thing is clear: it is not labour market policy that solves unemployment problems. Often when you listen to Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson she describes that she will fix the jobs and reduce unemployment. But labour market policies can never be used alone to reduce unemployment, let alone increase employment to any significant extent. Let me quote what the Institute of Economic Affairs writes in its report on wage formation: is it unlikely that now known labour market policies alone will be able to reduce unemployment and increase employment to any significant extent? ..................................................... This is where the great dividing line lies between government policy and Moderate policy. We see that labour market policy can provide support and open up more ways to work. However, the number of jobs per se is only marginally higher with labour market policies. The problem for the government is that it is precisely labour market policy that is their only tool. In the election movement there was a high tone with election promises about trainee jobs, extra services and 90-day guarantee. But labour market policies of this kind rarely work. Moreover, after 14 months we now see no results whatsoever. Finally, Mr President, we have a job deficit. We need more jobs in all parts of the economy. The Institute of Economics estimates that government policies lead to 15 000 – 20 000 fewer jobs. When you raise taxes on jobs and take-up and make it less profitable to work, there will be fewer jobs. And 15,000 to 20,000 fewer jobs cannot be weighed up by a single trainee job.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-38	Mr President, I would like to It is a new old concept that has become at the heart of moderate rhetoric, and it is a new exclusion. There are some that are old enough to remember the old alienation. To recapitulate what it was like with that concept: When you started using it, it was a understanding that had no real definition or limit. It was not anchored in any numbers, but it was more a concept, a signal word that would as well convey a diffuse feeling. After the 2006 elections, the Moderates had to define it, and then they went from having an unclear concept to having a direct misleading one, for what was then regarded as alienation was if people were within the support systems that existed. For example, if you accepted unemployment funds or income support, you were counted as part of exclusion, but if you gave up and made yourself dependent on a spouse or parent or simply didn't accept anything, then you weren't in exclusion. My question is, in fact, what is new about the concept of the new exclusion? Is there any more or less misleading statistical definition on the part of the Moderates, or is it more a summary of a kind of municipal political feeling of moderate Members? It would be nice to know, so that you know what you are discussing when you are discussing these issues with Moderates.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-41	Mr President, I would like to I'll tell Ali Esbati what I'm talking about. I am talking about people who previously were not in work, even though they had the capacity to work, who were previously retired early when they had the capacity to work, who went home years and years in because the former Social Democratic Government, supported by the Left Party, forgot about those people and hid them. This can be defined in different ways. The fact remains that early retirement has been reduced. The fact remains that we no longer hide and forget people in the statistics. That is why the labour force has increased and, in part, the unemployment rate in these groups, but the labour force is now there. I am proud of that – that we have seen people. Now we see that many born abroad find it difficult to enter the labour market. We see that this group is in danger of increasing with the government's policy, to which the Left Party supports. We would like to draw attention to that group. We want to highlight important societal challenges and come up with real policies. That is what I presented in my speech. We must have more ways in for those who today find it difficult to enter the labour market. The answers of the Moderates are not extra services and trainee jobs. The answers of the Moderates are to make it easier for employers to grow and employ. The answers of the Moderates are to find new ways in for those who find it difficult to do so, for example through a first-job employment. For me, it's not about statistics. For me it is about people that we see and that we want to find ways into the labour market for.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-46	Mr President, I would like to It may have confirmed some of my suspicions that they do not have as good a basis for these kinds of concepts as they are used. But I have to admit that I am something foreign in the moderate description of reality – or human vision, perhaps one can say – where the only way one can be noticed and seen, as Elisabeth Svantesson said, is to be subjected to stigmatisation and financial punishment, because that was what happened. That is what happened when you introduced the concept of insurance, for example, that one was considered magically healthy because a certain date had passed. You'd be seen. It is possible that someone had not seen the person before, and it was a pity that it was. But above all, it meant for people who knew very well what situation they were in that they were being financially punished. It is not seeing people, it is punishing people with some kind of idea that it would make them healthy and become part of the labor force they want. I think it has been very clear that it was a failure. I am pleased that yesterday in Parliament we decided to remove that precipice. It is quite right that there are many people in our country who are born abroad and who have difficulties in the labour market. The question then is what to do. Yes, with the policy that you have, it is to want more people to be in real exclusion, outside collective wages, outside the security systems that are linked to them, outside the community that it means working with other people with the same conditions and with the same reality and becoming part of society. That's what's behind your concept. That's what's behind your concept. That's the new alienation. That's good to know.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-51	Mr President, I would like to What is behind our ideology and policy is that all people should be able to live on their own wages, sometimes even on a small company where you may not have collective agreements but have a good wage. I wish Ali Esbati could see that there are employers who do not have collective agreements that are good employers. The talk about financial punishment is interesting to me. Ali Esbati wants to punish everyone who works more than anyone else in this Parliament. Ali Esbati would like to increase the tax rate for the assistant nurse who has difficulty making ends meet. Ali Esbati believes that we have reduced the tax too much over the years in the alliance government, despite the fact that the assistant nurse now has almost one month's salary more to live on per year. It is not punishing people, it is calling for hard work, so that you actually get to keep a little more of what you have earned yourself. It is clear moderate policy, just as it is clear moderate policy to find more ways into the labour market. I think it is better to have a wage to live on than to get stuck in dependency on subsidies, rather than to find yourself in a place in the public where you do not get any further. We need to find more ways into employers' homes. Unfortunately, the Left Party does not have much to offer the long-term unemployed or the unemployed when it comes to finding broad ways into the labour market. That is something that is quite clear.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-55	Mr President, I would like to I thought we should continue to talk about this with collective agreements. There is a sharp ideological difference between us Social Democrats and the Moderates. It concerns labour market perceptions. I cannot understand why Elisabeth Svantesson talks about companies without a collective agreement. Collective agreements are, of course, something that stipulates order and order, which ensures that you get your insurance policies out, get your rights. But all the time it is so important for Elisabeth Svantesson and the Moderates to make sure to talk about those who do not have collective agreements. The Moderates are now rethinking their entire policy. You're in the time of reconsideration. Unfortunately, however, the same old policy will be introduced. You talk about tax cuts and so on. But perhaps there is a re-examination that comes to the surface, which may have bubbled with a long time. It is about the view of labour law. You had your party vote when you decided that you wanted to make changes in labour law. Now we hear it again, when Svantesson says that you want to change the law on employment protection, that it should also apply to companies without collective agreements, that they could get different support. Why, Elisabeth Svantesson, is it so important for you Moderates that there should be fewer collective agreements and to change the law on employment protection? Is that gonna give you more jobs? Or is it just an old moderate ideology bubbling out?
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-59	Mr President, I would like to It is interesting that the chairman of the Committee on Employment does not read the proposals a little better. I do not think that the chairman of the Employment Committee, Raimo Pärssinen, would find many quotes from me where I have ever spoken negatively about collective agreements – quite the contrary. This is what creates the foundation of the Swedish labour market. My point is that there are companies that don't. For example, it can be a family business. I also think that we should open the door to them, so that they too can receive people, for example in new start jobs and other types of efforts. That's the point. Mr President, I have met Raimo Pärssinen many times in these debates. He never ever talks here in Parliament about how jobs can become more, how the job deficit can be solved or how we should ensure that we get more jobs in other types of industries. Raimo Pärssinen loves to talk about labour law and conditions. They are very central and important, and they can also influence the functioning of the labour market in many ways. But the foundation is, Raimo Pärssinen, that you represent a government party. The Institute of Economics says that the jobs will be fewer than they could have been because you do as you have always done and make it less profitable to work and because you do as you have always done and do not reward entrepreneurship and do not reward hard work for the person who works. That is the big problem and the big challenge. With regard to the Employment Protection Act, we want a new form of employment. That's what we want to see. We want young and newcomers to have easier access to the labour market. That's our focus. When it comes to the fact that collective agreements do not have an important role to play, I say: do not put those words in my mouth. I really think they have an important role to play. They are central to the Swedish model. But let us now see, in the crisis that we see, that there is actually a possibility that jobs can become more in other companies.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-66	Mr President, I would like to Elisabeth Svantesson has probably not really listened when I have spoken in the Chamber. Our social democratic ideology is based on investing in knowledge, investing in housing, investing in infrastructure and investing in more people being able to access knowledge. We want to build a knowledge nation, and we want to do so in a spirit of solidarity. Elisabeth Svantesson has been Minister of Labour and tried all these tax cuts with a bad result. No one can argue with that, can they? It was that way. Now, however, you continue to propose tax cuts because it will solve all the concerns. But that's not the case, and Elisabeth Svantesson knows it. But why don't you leave this old line that you keep trying to hold onto? Because you are ideologically moderates, and you Moderates want a tax policy that makes Sweden a low-tax country. That's what you're after. There's talk of everyone being able to live on their wages – that's right – but with huge gaps. The tax cuts that you are proposing make Svantesson and the other high-paid earn more. This is ideologically based in the Moderates. You don't come from that. Thus, there will be greater disparities in the country and in the labour market. The same applies to collective agreements. In companies that do not have collective agreements, this is generally less orderly. You can ask employers' organisations, who write collective agreements, about this. There will be unfair competition and differences. It will be an even greater result of moderate thinking. You are far to the right ideologically.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-70	Mr President, I would like to It is clear that not all the authorities in Sweden share Raimo Pärssinen's view, but that many believe that the tax cuts and structural reforms carried out by the Alliance have actually played a major role in employment. It would be very interesting to hear which part of our tax policy would make us a low-tax society. I think that Raimo Pärssinen can read a little bit about what tax rates look like in different countries. Then Raimo Pärssinen and everyone in the government talks about investment in jobs. But the truth is, you spend money on grants. The investments you make in enterprise policy are negligible in relation to any tax increases you put on entrepreneurship and jobs. That's the truth. The truth is that only 5 percent of the Swedish population believe that government policy leads to more jobs. The voters and the Swedish population are not stupid. They see that you can talk loud and long. But as long as you don't show results and as long as you don't have a job policy, no one will believe in you.
i-TfCT6xaJmD5xBNMLfWHE8K	Mr President, I would like to We are now debating state expenditure category 14 on the labour market and working life, and I shall begin by calling for our reservations 1 and 12 to be approved. Mr President, I would like to It's all right. Everything points in the right direction. The Employment Service knows to tell you that unemployment is falling – 0.8 per cent over the past year. Employment is expected to increase by 140 000 in 2016 and 2017. Those are amazing numbers. And, Mr President, with completely different conditions, there would indeed have been fantastic figures. But we have to relate to reality. Why is unemployment falling? Among other things, we have a Riksbank which, in order to fuel the economy, to increase growth and to boost employment, has been forced at a negative rate. Casino economy continues. The Swedish debt is increasing. And when we shop on credit, it has an impact on the labour market. At the same time, we have a Social Democratic Minister of Finance who now borrows money every day to finance the government's budget, especially the continued mass immigration. It is money itself that creates both growth and employment. It's a bit like Ebberöd's bank, because it's loans to be paid back by future generations. As late as October this year, the Swedish National Debt Office indicated a loan requirement for next year of EUR 33 billion and for 2017 EUR 47 billion. This forecast was postponed because it waited for the Migration Board's forecasts. It is a forecast that is probably already out of date. This may involve a much larger amount of money. In the next two years, the government will therefore borrow at least SEK 16 000 per employee – in the middle of a boom. In two of the good years, when we should instead save in the barns, the Minister for Finance borrows. Falling unemployment rates are also seriously misleading in order to reflect today's developments in the Swedish labour market. By 2015, until 30 November, 149,028 people had applied for asylum in Sweden. During the same time, the Migration Agency has had time to process about one third as many applications – 52 883. Of them 29 861 have been granted. Many of those granted asylum are unaccompanied, but there are others as well. Most applications that have been processed are not from this year but from previous years. I would like to point out that 53 000 more people in the labour force affect unemployment by 1 percentage point. Today's unemployment figures are largely due to the fact that the Migration Agency has not been able to fulfil its mission. There are far more people in Sweden than those who want and need a job. The years 2017 – 2019 will be the real boom, as today's mass immigration will probably have a full impact on unemployment statistics, income support, welfare and so on. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats want a policy for a better functioning labour market. We do not only have a policy of job creation, including our industrial investment. We also have a policy for a better functioning labour market. We have a number of proposals for improvements concerning, among other things, Arbetsförmedlingen, the unemployment fund. The Laval Act, association work, apprenticeships, the situation of disabled people in the labour market, labour market training, work environment and so on. My colleague Magnus Persson will touch on the work environment in his speech. What is clear is that we must get away from the old Ams policy of the Social Democrats. They are now again trying to hide unemployment in ineffective labour market policy programmes, which have as their sole purpose the transfer of unemployed people to the statistical column employed. At the same time, we say no to the Alliance's policy with lower thresholds, where it is believed that low-skilled young people and immigrants will be able to enter the labour market – to a labour market that currently does not exist and to jobs with low or no demand. Strong subsidies aim to create an artificial space for jobs without their own vitality. It has also proved to be expensive and ineffective. Not least, the policy of the former alliance government with entry-level jobs, which the current government has inherited, discourages. There, Swedish unemployed people are discriminated against as new arrivals' jobs are subsidised by up to 80 per cent of the cost. In addition, it has proved ineffective as it leads to extremely few permanent jobs. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I am beginning to have some time constraints: the International Monetary Fund, the IMF, states in a report of 17 November this year that the proportion of vulnerable groups among the unemployed in Sweden will increase. It was 70 per cent in April this year, and the second half of 2016 predicts that this proportion will increase to 75 per cent of the unemployed. So this is happening with a Social Democratic government.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-89	Mr President, I would like to Sweden's economy is among the strongest in Europe. Sweden has experienced the highest growth among comparable EU countries since 2006, while disposable income has increased. The latest quarterly report from SCB shows that this is the case in black and white. Today, Sweden has higher labour force participation and employment rates than almost any other country in the EU. That's the truth. It was true even before the elections last year, when the Center Party was in the government and current government parties claimed that something broke. It is also true today, when we are in opposition. Despite the strong starting position, however, there are major challenges ahead. Sweden is challenged when other countries are developing faster and faster. The thresholds for jobs are too high and are closing out many groups, including young people without upper secondary education and born abroad. The current influx of refugees makes the call for reform even more topical. The Alliance government laid the foundations for stable state finances through important steps such as lightening the tax burden and reducing regulation. With more jobs, tax revenues increased as we lowered the right taxes. For the long-term sustainable development of the labour market, that is the path we must continue to take. By creating the conditions for more jobs for those people who do not have jobs today, we are also giving more money to our welfare. Unfortunately, the Swedish Government is heading in the opposite direction. With the government's 29 billion in tax increases on jobs and companies, the growth of new jobs is reduced to what is actually possible. At worst, the recovery risks being broken. As always, with a reduction in the number of new jobs, the most vulnerable groups in the labour market are affected. Although exclusion fell under the alliance government, to the lowest level since the early 1990s, it is still high. It is now at risk of deepening as more and more people end up in long-term exclusion without the possibility of getting a job. Refugees who come to Sweden risk getting caught up in bureaucracy and unemployment instead of quickly getting into work and getting a place to live. It is a waste of people's means of life and initiative. The trend can be reversed, but then we must also reverse the perspective. We must see, for example, that jobs and growth in the Swedish economy are created from below by small and growing companies, as well as that welfare needs to be adapted to the people and not to the system. We also need to ensure that growth and jobs are created by local policies and not by measures funded with higher taxes, and we need to see that civil society can sometimes create more security and coherence with very little means than large bureaucracys. The Center Party therefore proposes major and important structural reforms in the labour market and the housing market, among others. The aim is to free up all the forces that exist around our country, so that new initiatives and ideas are rewarded instead of being punished. Mr President, I would like to The Centre Party believes that a new hand in the labour market is needed, and it is not least matching that needs to be improved. In order to finance alternative intermediaries, we propose the introduction of a job fixarpeng. The idea is that it will accompany the jobseeker so that he can choose the desired intermediary. In this way, the work of the Public Employment Service can be clarified and focused on certification, control and performance-oriented management of independent employment intermediaries. We propose that a first step be taken through a regional pilot project. We also improve matching by dieting inefficient labour market policy programmes in favour of job creation reforms. Work placements and labour market training should be replaced more by introductory and apprenticeship jobs and regular training places. Wage subsidies should be directed more towards those who are further away from the labour market. It must be made easier for the job seeker to learn the job and increase his/her skills and employability. To this end, the Center Party proposes introductory jobs which, by not making demands of collective agreements, also involve many small businesses. Together with the fact that new arrivals are also given the opportunity to participate, we are of course happy that this is part of the agreement we have reached with the government after the budget bill was presented to the Swedish parliament. For the long-term unemployed, the Center Party wants to test so-called matching positions, which should be subsidised and temporary employment of an actor – such as a recruitment company. In the context of employment, supervision, skills development and intensified mediation and matching efforts are offered. We support our specific opinion and reservations in the report. I support reservations 3 and 11. Mr President, I would like to Yes, Sweden's economy is strong. Yes, we have great challenges ahead of us. Yes, the Center Party prefers to see necessary reforms rather than closed borders. Yes, transparency and sustainable growth can be combined.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-103	Mr President, I would like to It is gratifying to discuss a state budget that can focus on the actual design and challenges of working life. It is a budget that starts from the fact that it is unemployment that is to be combated and not the unemployed. Today, we are discussing Category 14 on the labour market and working life. It is one of the areas where there is most to do after many years of right-wing politics. This proposal is a contribution to that work but, of course, nothing that completes it. Mr President, I would like to At least on the basis of the objectives of the previous right-wing government, politics, as we know, was a rather embarrassing failure. Punishing and controlling did not lead to lower unemployment and greater dynamism. On the other hand, it led to a lot of other dramatic things, such as growing gaps, increasing insecurity and greater poverty. One can turn the matter around and see it as a strategic success too – it is clear that this development may not be seen as anything but pleasing to a right that has been reluctant to any modernisation and improvement of quality in post-war successful labour market policies – but it is a matter of taste. This right-wing policy is intended to continue to varying degrees with the support of the Swedish Democrats when important reforms were voted down in the last autumn budget. But the government has continued to work on several fronts where it has nevertheless been possible, for example when it comes to better governance of the Public Employment Service and not least with the spring budget bill The Left Party was involved and voted through in the Riksdag. There, among other things, the thoroughly damaged unemployment insurance could start to be restored. So now some further steps are being taken with the budget proposal for next year, and I would like to remind you of some of those things quickly. Finally, phase 3, a poorly functioning end-point in the right-wing government's non-policy for the long-term unemployed, will be phased out and gradually replaced by more reasonable forms of support based more on the needs of individuals. No serious person can claim that there is a quick fix there, but the alternatives must be allowed to emerge. A change for the better, however. There will be efforts to better validate the knowledge and skills newly arrived in Sweden. With the right resources and the right design, such investments will quickly pay off many times. The study opportunities of the unemployed are improved in various ways, which is a welcome modernisation of labour market policies. The Swedish Work Environment Authority continues to receive more resources. We should remember that the dismantling of the world-leading Work Life Institute and the defoliation of the Swedish Work Environment Authority was one of the most obvious outcomes of downward class politics from the former right-wing government. It was a policy that combined a lack of knowledge with a lack of commitment to ordinary people's working lives. Now a few steps are taken to repair some of that damage. These proposals are rejected by different constellations of the right parties. It is from this point of view consistently more important to scrape together money for tax cuts than to deal with some of the more central tasks of social organisations. Mr President, I would like to It is gratifying that unemployment is now falling and employment is increasing. Of course, this does not mean at all that there is peace and joy in the Swedish labour market. Unemployment is still high. In addition, it partially changes its character. There will be a clearer division when already vulnerable groups, particularly foreign-born people with certain functional variations and those without completed upper secondary education, get even more difficult, while the unemployment rate in other groups is clearly falling. Then what's needed? Yes, there is a need for a multifaceted and high-quality labour market policy, even more than in the past, which can equip and lift people. It will need more than what has been done and is done with this budget bill. But what is the response of the Right Opposition? Well, descaled training programmes, more financial pressure on the unemployed and more on those who have a lot since before – it could be through RUT grants or through tax cuts. The formulas from that edge are regrettable reading, I would say. But, again, that doesn't mean the government can settle down. Not least, it is important to get all the people who have now got a sanctuary in Sweden to get into and grow with this society. The work that is now being done with fast track is great. It will affect a limited part of the new arrivals. More people will be needed to work in the welfare sector. There will be a need for flexible cooperation in municipalities to improve flows between different systems. There will be a need for more professionals who will have a chance to show what they can, and then there will be a need for investments at societal level – investments that will, of course, also generate jobs in private companies. There is much that needs to be upgraded in our society and much that needs to be done to modernise this country and adapt it to the increase in our population. It has never been, nor is it now, through labour market policies that we are primarily looking to move towards full employment. Efforts are needed through economic policy. I do not hesitate to stress that much greater things are needed than this year's budget, but it is a clear step in the right direction. Finally, Mr President, in this report we are also dealing with some motions from the general period of exercise, where the Left Party has a reservation about order and order in subsidised employment. We note with satisfaction that the government has taken some steps to curb more extreme forms of cheating and exploitation by criminals who act as employers. But there are also problems at a more everyday level. Therefore, for example, there would be a need for some kind of maximum limit on the number of employees with subsidised pay received by one and the same employer so as to reduce the risk of systematic over-exploitation. Consultation with trade union organisations should be self-evident also in so-called new start jobs. And it should be made clear that the Public Employment Service should always carefully consider the opinions of trade unions when giving instructions, simply because that is where the concrete knowledge and the actual possibility of follow-up are. This can strengthen both the quality and legitimacy of the use of traineeships and subsidised employment. I therefore support the Left Party's Amendment No 9. Otherwise, I again express my satisfaction at the fact that labour market policy can slowly be designed more worthy of a modern welfare state.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-119	Mr President, I would like to It is wonderful that the Left Party can enjoy the government's budget. It was a while ago, as I see it by Ali Esbati. That also means that Ali Esbati is behind what is in the budget, as I can understand. However, I have a few thoughts about Mr Ali's comments on the future. I know Ali Esbati in the election campaign was talking about people who worked in the RUT business as domestics. Of course, I find that unfortunate. I think we need several different types of jobs and also more RUT services. My first question is what I was talking about in my speech: does Ali Esbati think that there is a job shortage for people with lower education? Or does Ali Esbati think that it is only possible to solve unemployment with education? Is there a job shortage? My second question concerns the view of RUT services. New statistics from SCB show that they are being broadened and used more, for example among those who earn 24,000 - 27,000. And we see from our side that they need to be further broadened. It was also the entrance to the deal we met with the government. We have brought both government parties with us – it is a government, and sometimes one wonders if the two parties always think the same thing, but it is another thing – to support extending the RUT deduction, for example for gardening, IT services and other types of services. Then my question is: will Ali Esbati also exult in the next budget, where hopefully these parts are included, and will he support it?
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-124	Mr President, I would like to Good questions! Only when it comes to job shortages for people with lower education is there a job deficit in Sweden when there is high unemployment. If we look at what it actually looks like in the labour market, then we see that there are many jobs where there are no formal or practical qualification requirements, that is to say that you need to have higher education. However, if there is a problem with the number of jobs available, it is that people who have a slightly higher level of education will crowd out those who have a lower level of education. Then we can ask ourselves how to solve this. Do we want a labour market that is getting bigger and wider so that more people can simply work? Or should we try to reduce wages and conditions as much as possible to see what happens? Maybe it'll help someone low-skilled. That's not how it works in real life. Had it worked that way in reality on existing labour markets, we could have seen that countries with very low wage levels would have had almost full employment and that people with low levels of education would have done very well. It's not like that. That's not how it works. On the contrary, countries with high wage levels normally also have a high employment rate. This should be a pretty simple thing to look up and look at. But the Moderates continue with their ideology, which puts the idea of how it should work in the labour market above how it actually works in the labour market. It is regrettable and also produces regrettable results. As far as the RUT business is concerned, I'll have to get back to you. I do not think it is good to increase the transfer of resources up in the social pyramid, which the RUT grants mean.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-128	Mr President, I would like to I did not get a clear answer to the question of whether we have a job shortage for those with lower education. I understood it rather that Ali Esbati is happy to talk about wages. What I mean and what was my point in the speech is that we need more jobs throughout the Swedish labour market, and we also need more, as we sometimes call it, simple jobs. After all, Sweden has the EU's lowest share of so-called simple jobs. They're usually not that simple. I am not very fond of that concept, but I think it is understood that it is simply jobs that do not require qualified education. We need more of that type of work, especially now that a lot of people come to Sweden with a low level of education. One solution is, of course, to increase the level of education. That goes without saying, and I do not think that the big dividing line is there. But I think that we also need to find more jobs that do not require higher education, and that is where politics plays a major role. The extension of RUT services is part of this. And I would like to ask Ali Esbati once again whether he and his party are going to support a budget that includes extended RUT services. It is essential to know, because we need more jobs in the economy, including in this sector. It is certainly not the only solution, but some are important. We must not, as we are doing now, limit the budget and then wish to expand. My question remains: will the Left Party support such a budget? Then, of course, I wonder if Ali Esbati is still saying that it is servants who work in this business.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-133	Mr President, I would like to It's not that I'm talking about people who work with these services as domestics. What I was discussing, and which I still think is very important, is that we should not push through tax subsidies to get a development that we have left behind, where we divide people and actively work to ensure that those who have a lot of money can have people who work with bad conditions and in a position of dependency in their households. That is what, in the long run, is the point of these services, and I think that is a bad thing. I think it is a bad priority to use tax funds for this, and I will continue to think so. As for what we will do with a possible future budget, hopefully Elisabeth Svantesson knows that the RUT deduction is not the only one in a budget. Sometimes you can believe that when you listen to moderate representatives in the Chamber. You could change the saying All roads carry to Rome All roads carry to RUT, for there is no political issue in our society, or in the world almost, that, in your opinion, cannot be resolved by means of an extended RUT deduction. That's not what we think. We put it in context, and in this context we think that an extended RUT deduction is bad because it is about redistributing money up into the social pyramid rather than using it where they do more good. For example, they can generate more jobs. Is there a job shortage? Yes, of course there is a job shortage in society when there are not enough jobs for the people who need and seek work. Please look at the statistics on the proportion of simple jobs and employment. Is it the case that countries with a high proportion of simple jobs also show higher overall employment? No, it's not like that. The path we are going to take is not to actively create more low-productive low-wage jobs.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-138	Mr President, I would like to The Left Party usually says that it stands up for the weak in society. That is why I reacted a little to what Ali Esbati mentioned about phase 3. He said it's great that phase 3 should be phased out and that there should be reasonable efforts. What reasonable effort is that? There are many in phase 3 who wonder. Many of the social entrepreneurs are also wondering what will happen next year. Ali Esbati is welcome to provide some information on what he intends to come. There are about 35 000 people in this effort, so many are waiting for answers. Ali Esbati says he's against tax subsidies. Does he also say no to subsidising increased wage subsidies? The Christian Democrats propose in their budget to raise the ceiling for wage support to employers. It has remained at 6 700 for a while, and we want to raise it to 19 000 in order for more employers to be able to employ on reasonable terms. These are jobs for those who are most vulnerable and who, for example, find it difficult to enter the labour market because of a disability. That is why they need to have this salary support with them. Mr President, I would like to My question to Ali Esbati is: in what way does the Left Party want to do something for the weakest in society and in the labour market in terms of phase 3 and wage support?
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-143	Mr President, I would like to With regard to phase 3, the whole point is that decommissioning is needed because it has been a bad system which has been perceived by many as a degrading parking space rather than a well-functioning measure. There are also many who have enjoyed this employment phase, but overall the measure has been problematic. As I said in my speech, there is not another measure that can replace Phase 3, but it is about finding several different paths that suit different people in different situations. In concrete terms, there will be more training for some people who are currently unable to obtain training and other types of subsidised employment with reasonable conditions. It was nice that Mrs Pethrus mentioned social enterprises. I believe that in many cases they will have a greater role than before, but not in the form of the so-called employment phase. It opened up for some exploitation where there was more money for those who arranged than for those who were in employment. For many, it was also unclear what this would lead to. I think that many in this measure think that it is reasonable for this system to be phased out and to replace it with not one other thing but several other things. I did not say that I was against all tax subsidies, but I am against it as a redistribution from society in general to those who already have a lot of money. An increase in wage support is very good. It's a shame you didn't get it through during your time in the alliance government. I would like us to work together to ensure that in future there will be an increase in the ceiling for wage subsidies, because that is good policy.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-149	Mr President, I would like to It is clear that Ali Esbati and the government have no answers to the people in phase 3. Ali Esbati talks about the need for decommissioning and what it might be about, but he does not say anything concrete about what it will actually be about. But these people want to know now, before the new budget, what is going to happen. A few weeks ago I asked a social enterprise working with people in the employment phase. They said they didn't know what was going to happen. In our exercise we write that according to Arbetsförmedlingen, 89 percent of those who have participated are satisfied. Sixty-three per cent have got a job when they have left the employment phase. As this is a group that is having a very difficult time entering the labour market, it is not a bad result. That's a good result. Phase 3 can certainly be redone, but you can't decommission anything until you have something else in place. I don't want to know what might come next. I want to know now. I want to be able to tell people that with the government budget this will happen to you. But I don't know what's going to happen to them. I understand that Ali Esbati can say no more than that he thinks something is going to come, but he does not know what it is. It is good that we agree to increase wage support. Of course, you could have already done so, but now I expect the Left Party to take action in the next budget to increase wage support.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-156	Mr President, I would like to Let me repeat what I said about phase three. We are dismantling this system because we see that it has worked badly. The Employment Service has many other measures on its palette, and new ones are added. The settlement will not take place from day one to day two; it is a gradual phase-out. In addition, there are different things that suit the people in phase 3. There will be new volumes of labour market policy programmes designed to deal with the gradual phase-out of phase 3. I said it in my speech and in my previous speech, and I say it again. That's what's gonna happen. It is a clear direction of will that I am pleased that we have finally achieved with the budget. Now new instructions are over, and at the other end they are working to offer people in phase 3 a more meaningful action programme. They will be in a difficult situation after phase 3 has been phased out if they are still long-term unemployed. Now, however, they are getting better action than the one that has been in place in the past. As far as wage support is concerned, there is no budget negotiation going on here. But let me be clear that this is an issue that the Left Party has long considered important. I'm going to keep working to make it part of a future budget. The budget is being collected and the budget we have presented is a good one. There is, of course, much that can be done to make future budgets even better. Wage support is one such issue, and we agree on the matter in principle.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-162	Mr President, I would like to Several speakers have pointed out that Sweden is doing well. That's right. Employment and growth are increasing. We are doing better than many other comparable countries. In the public sector in particular, there is a great need for labour. At the same time, we know that the rise in employment is largely linked to the economic cycle, and we see quite large clouds of concern in the future – not least because the government has obvious problems in coming up with proposals for structural reforms for increased employment and more jobs in Sweden. This means that we should not beat our chests and be far too satisfied and proud of the situation we have now, given the situation we have now and the huge challenges ahead. Clearly, one can reason that one puts the whole burden on the individual. The political system does not need to change anything. We have no structural reforms. We're not lowering any thresholds in. We don't make any reliefs for hiring. We put the whole burden on the individual. If the individual does not have a competence, it is the individual who should change by studying. If the individual is not able to enter the labour market because, for example, the individual does not have language skills that the labour market currently requires, it is the individual who will study and train. I must say, as a liberal, that I believe very much in the individual. But I think it is completely unreasonable in a situation when so many people come to Sweden to put the whole burden on the individual. We must also be prepared to place a great deal of responsibility and a certain burden on the political system in Sweden to open up and enable people to enter. Lowering the thresholds is one way of saying that it is not only the individual who must make himself perfectly viable for the society we have now. Society can meet the job seeker half way. You're definitely supposed to make demands on people. But we must also make demands on the political system. I note the total absence of demands on the political system, not least by the Left Party. You're not prepared to make any changes at all. This means that one will eventually permanent an alienation in Sweden. A lot of people come into the country, but few people come into society and into the labour market. It's very troubling. We must make greater demands on the parliament, government and the political system to reform themselves so that all the people who are now coming here get a fair chance to have a future in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to It is worrying about employment in the sense that the government took over a Sweden where employment increased. It continues to increase, but it has mainly to do with the economic cycle. Structural employment will not increase in the coming years. The potential employment rate mentioned, if you look at the budget bill, is expected to decrease by 2019. At the same time, unemployment remains relatively high, especially among young and newcomers. The Bankruptcy Institute's assessment of the Government's budget proposal was that the measures could be expected to lead to higher equilibrium unemployment. This means that the government's unemployment targets will not be met. This is very interesting given that employment will not increase through structural reforms, but employment growth will slow down as the economic cycle turns downwards. We have now seen statements by the Minister for Labour himself here a week ago that it may be difficult to reach the target. The Minister of Finance has also been out saying that it is difficult to reach the goal. The reasonable question to put to the Minister for Labour, who later comes up in this debate, is: Has the government abandoned its unemployment target? That's a reasonable question to ask. That's what you went to elections on. You have launched this objective very clearly. But now you see a statement after a statement where the government seems to resign its own most important tool for employment policy, namely the goal that Sweden should have the lowest unemployment rate in the EU. Mr President, I would like to Finally, we see from the Liberals that there are several challenges for the labour market in the future. We need to lower the thresholds. We have talked about this a lot, both me and former alliance representatives here in the speaker's chair. Not all people are highly educated. Not all people have easy access to the labour market we have today. We must be humbled by the fact that not all people are very strong, have the sharpest elbows, the finest CVs and the biggest contact nets. There are people who have it tougher to get in. Then the labour market must meet them by lowering thresholds and enabling people to enter. It is about promoting new markets that can be created through, for example, extended RUT deductions and a lot of other things. We also need to work to make the Swedish economy, the Swedish business community and the Swedish companies more competitive internationally. This requires a lot of other changes in marginal taxes and that the tax system should be more proportionate. We need to strengthen the education system. We need a trade agreement between the EU and the US and a lot of other things that will strengthen Sweden's international competitiveness in the future. Finally, I would like to support the alliance joint reservation No 11 under paragraph 6 and the Liberals' reservation No 4 under paragraph 2 on the future labour market.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-180	Mr President, I would like to I support all the reservations expressed by the Christian Emocrats, but I would like to express my support for reservation No 6 on a new employment agency. Then I plead for the winning approval of time only to the alliance's joint reservation No 11. Today's report deals with perhaps the most important area of policy, namely labour market policy. To have a job to go to, to be able to make a living on your own and to feel community in a workplace is extremely developing. It's good for the individual, and it's good for society. In order for many people to get jobs and for us to get a good welfare, a business community that simmers with activity is needed. Responsible government must always focus on jobs and ensure that all policies work together for good economic development. This was true during the time of the A alliance in power, and so Sweden is now standing up as a member of the countries that have Europe's best economy. I am concerned that we will now return to what happened when the S ocial democrats were in power before the accession of the A alliance in 2006, namely what we then called jobless growth, i.e. jobless growth. The economy is going well, but the jobs are not coming through. The government slows down job growth by attacking RUT and ROT jobs rather than developing the services sector. The government shortens working life in a situation where we need to extend it and make older people stay in the labour market. There is a lack of strong measures to make labour market matching work better. We also see that those who are furthest from the labour market, such as people with disabilities, are now both hidden and forgotten. As I was told earlier, the so-called phase 3 ne d is now being added without giving concrete alternatives. They should receive some types of labour market policy measures, but no one really knows what. According to the Employment Service, as I mentioned earlier, 89% of the participants in the employment phase were satisfied. Sixty-three per cent of those who left the phase in 2013 got jobs. There are 35 000 people who are now facing an uncertain future. They are very vulnerable people, so they need to be in focus. Instead, we Christian Democrats want to invest in this group. We know that of the 350 000 currently unemployed, the majority are far from the labour market. They are people of non-European background, people with only pre-secondary education, people over 55 years of age and people with disabilities. We believe that this is where we need to pool our energies, this is where the efforts need to come, and this is where we need to increase our resources. We therefore want to increase wage support by approximately SEK 900 million. So we want to increase the wage subsidy, the wage subsidy, from SEK 16 700 to a ceiling of SEK 19 000. Today, we have about 76 000 people employed with wage support or secure employment. It is a fairly large group that you have to focus on and get into the labour market as best you can. We also see that Samhall has an important function, and we want to give them more opportunities to hire people. In our joint alliance motion, we are addressing precisely the possibility of investigating whether Samhall could be given the opportunity to offer temporary employment within the framework of its basic mission. We also believe from the Christian Democrats that there are other private actors who are good at this and that we should encourage. Social enterprises are also making an important contribution, and private actors can help in matching. That is why we propose so-called matching positions, which the Moderates were previously in on. This means that a person can get a job with a government-contracted recruitment company and then get support in his/her employment with an employer with supervision and competence development. This is something that has been seen: many people who have difficulties in the labour market need support and backup to make it there. We need to develop the form of apprenticeship employment. It is perhaps even more important now than ever when many refugees without higher education come to Sweden. In this way, we can speed up integration. Mr President, I would like to In this context, I would also like to highlight what we have been pushing for a long time in the Christian Democrats, namely that it is time to open up the Public Employment Service to competition. There are many good examples around the world. The State Employment Service alone cannot be the best at doing everything against everyone. We need complementary actors. We Christian Democrats focus in our budget on increasing incentives for work. In order for employers to want to hire young inexperienced people, we believe that lower employers' contributions for young people up to 22 years of age need to be maintained. We also want young people to get a carrot to take a job, even if they may not get such a high salary. We therefore propose that they earn 500 000 SEK tax-free until they turn 25. They may then be able to save or set aside for the first dwelling. Similarly, we want newcomers to have this opportunity to further encourage them to move from grants to work. The Christian Democrats want labour market policy to have full employment as the overall objective. Not everyone can work 100 percent of full-time, but everyone should have the opportunity to work 100 percent of their ability. Everything else is a waste of human resources. The consequence of prolonged exclusion is often personal and social problems. With more people getting jobs, public resources are increasing, which can be used to support the most vulnerable who need the support of society.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-196	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report. As many have testified here, Sweden is doing well. We're all very grateful for that. We thank you for all the good input that comes in this House, because we are driven by the same common will: we are going to bring down unemployment. We're gonna put people to work. We're all gonna make it, and we're gonna get good income in this country so we can thrive on it. Right now Sweden is walking like the train, as some say. That's what SKL's Chief Economist said in Ekot's Saturday interview when she testified that local government revenue is growing. It's all-time-high if we look at the 21st century with more getting jobs with more hours worked. Then unemployment will fall. I'm glad to hear that. But what is more gratifying, I would say, is that it is youth unemployment that is falling most strongly. For me, of course, it is gratifying that we have a Social Democratic-led government that has put in many good measures and has high ambitions in this area. But there are major challenges, and there is a lot that will require a lot of us if you look at, for example, the municipalities and the expenditure side. Mr President, I would like to I travel around many places in Sweden. I do so for a certain purpose: I want to meet municipalities, and I want to meet the local employment services. I want to meet them together to hear how you work together, how far you've come and how it feels. I have to say that there is a huge difference today compared to just a few years ago. It is a very good climate for cooperation. Many fine, strong wills believe that it is cooperation that leads to results – and better results. Just think of such a thing as the fact that a survey has now been carried out of those called UVAS, young people who are neither working nor studying. This survey has now given municipalities a tool that they can use in the future. Every youth who is not in work or study is monitored and can thus identify them and help them. The government led by Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson appointed the Delegation for Youth to work, which has been a highly talented lubricant and which has helped to write agreements between municipalities and employment services to reduce unemployment and to cooperate on this. There is now an ongoing implementation and planning of training contracts, trainee jobs and additional services. These are pretty logical things. Training contracts apply to young people who have failed in high school. Everyone knows that it is precisely this group of young people who are filling in the unemployment line. Now they get another chance. Trainee jobs are for young people we can target in the shortage professions. I want you to know how many people are now planning to fill up with nurses. Now you can look at those called hourmies and put them in trainee jobs. This will also ensure the future recruitment of welfare workers. It's very important. As Ali Esbati so well said: now we can stop the flow into phase 3 – the employment phase – and instead open up. Just imagine that you are now given the opportunity to study with continued compensation! Or imagine the possibility for municipalities, such as Gävle municipality where you now sit and have pointed out 100 places, jobs and employment in the municipality as additional services. It's not a lockdown. It's not a passivity. It's a job you go to. I think it's amazing. It is about vocational courses in the shortage professions in folk high schools. As Désirée Pethrus said, we are increasing the locations within Samhall. It is precisely the issue of wage support and wage subsidies that we must look at together in the future. I sympathize a great deal with the way Désirée Pethrus argues. We must also keep order when it comes to collective agreements and new start jobs. There's a lot going on with the government. I have to say that things are moving forward. When it comes to Arbetsförmedlingen's renewal journey, it is amazing how much is happening there. Every job intermediary is now going to five days of training. You fill up, you hire, and you arm yourself to your teeth for what's coming. The focus is on better corporate relations and better matching to cope with recruitment. Now you have to do what works and what gives results. The simplification journey towards Arbetsförmedlingen continues. I hope there will be more initiatives, and I am sure that this will be done by the government in terms of simplifying for the Public Employment Service. Fredrik Malm has unfortunately left the premises, but he said something that was wise. He said there is a lack of political demands. I agree. Do you know what the great demand for politics is in the country? It's: Now you're going to have to take me to hell work together! Do you know that the Swedish people think that block politics is not good? Do you also know that I agree with the Swedish people? Block politics is not good. We have another strong will to solve the country's problems. Let's make sure we can talk more about it in the future. I would like to thank all the members of the committee for their good cooperation. We have a good spirit in committee; I hope that everyone will agree with that. I thank the opposition for all the good input and, of course, I thank our fantastic office. Merry Christmas and Happy New Year for all of you – healthy powers next year we'll have!
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-209	Mr President, I would like to There are many things that could be devoted to replying after listening to Raimo Pärssinen's speech. I can make a small recording and say that it is interesting that Sweden's economy goes like a train. I don't think so with nine alliance budgets! But that is not why I asked for a reply, but I would like to raise an issue which Raimo Pärssinen did not raise in his speech. If we look at the budget as a whole, we can see that the government is raising the costs of jobs and businesses by 29 billion. I would like to know how this affects the area of responsibility that we in the Committee on Employment have to deal with. What does the Chairman say about that?
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-212	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking, Annika Qarlsson! The difference between us is that you want to do general things– you spend subsidies generally even on those who have jobs– while we think it's better to make selective efforts. This is what Annika Qarlsson knows. We focus resources on those who really need it. This means that we can invest more money in professional adult, komvux, trainee jobs and so on. So we are doing it in a targeted way. That's the difference. This is an old discussion that Gunnar Sträng already had in his time with the Right Party. He said you don't have to rub your whole body with protective ointment if you have an elbow pain. That is what is targeted that produces the best results, I am sure.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-215	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. To clarify to the listener, I would like to say that what the Social Democrats mean is that they raise taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship by 29 billion and then use some of that money to ensure, instead of real jobs, that those who have not got jobs get employment in a labour market measure. We think it is a bad development which means that instead of creating opportunities and conditions for real jobs, which are actually needed more of in Sweden, there are measures. In previous debates, it has been said, and Raimo Pärssinen can distance himself from it if he feels that it is not right at all, that it does not affect the number of jobs in companies to increase the cost of jobs and entrepreneurship. However, the same budget includes compensation to municipalities and county councils for, for example, the increase in employers' contributions for young people. So we are not really consistent. My question is: Does Raimo Pärssinen think that higher costs on jobs and entrepreneurship mean fewer jobs or that it does not?
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-218	Mr President, I would like to It depends on how you use the revenue you get. That's the difference. Annika Qarlsson and the Center believe that everything will work out by adding subsidies and lowering taxes, but it has turned out that it doesn't really work that way. It doesn't. If you use the money for investment, more education, a change in life and so on, it will produce results. If you invest, for example, you build, and it gives you a job. Investing in a better school increases the level of knowledge throughout the nation, and it also provides more jobs. We, Sweden, are and want to continue to be a knowledge nation where we have high added value in the goods and services we export. It requires us to invest a lot in education. That is why I am proud to say that we are also investing in a boost in knowledge. We think that will produce more results than lowering a little bit for a smaller firm or perhaps a little more for, for example, McDonald's, because they'll manage anyway. If there are dramatic increases, I agree, but that is not what it is about. I am thinking about how the Center can bring it together economically when there is a great demand for tax cuts while we are standing here in the speaker's chair talking about the fact that we have major challenges ahead of us. The Center will solve this by reducing taxes even further. It doesn't make any sense.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-222	Mr President, I would like to I have a reflection on what Raimo Pärssinen, the chairman of the Committee on Employment, began his speech with. He said that the Swedish economy goes like the train. I share that picture. The only problem is that not all people are on that train. Many people find it difficult to enter the labour market, and many have been outside for a long time and do not feel part of the good development. There were a lot of things that the alliance government should have done better and done considerably earlier. We should have had more work for the long-term unemployed. What we did at the end, and as we have done here in Parliament now, was to put forward several important proposals, I think, which can make it easier for the long-term unemployed to get into work. My question to the Chairman of the Labour Market Committee, since he seems to extend a hand across the block borders, is: Why does the Chairman of the Labour Market Committee vote against the proposal on matching positions that the former party colleague Anders Lago has investigated? That investigation is complete. This is a good way in for people who have been outside the labour market for a long time and are not given a chance to show their worth. Why does Raimo Pärssinen vote against Samhall also being allowed to work with more fixed-term contracts to help young people with disabilities out to work? And why does Raimo Pärssinen vote against the fact that Arbetsförmedlingen should work even more with social enterprise and have its own programme for it, as the Moderates suggest? These are three concrete proposals for the long-term unemployed to have more ways into jobs and not just extra services. I would like answers to these questions.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-228	Mr President, I would like to Sometimes it's simple. We say no until the questions are settled and we have gone through them thoroughly. The Vice-Chairman of the Labour Market Committee mentioned that Anders Lago has given up an investigation which I know is being prepared. Then let's not say anything about it right now. When it comes to Samhall, the Funka investigation comes. It is also interesting, but it must in turn be prepared. As I said before and everyone else has also said, there are great challenges to be faced right now. But the whole issue of disabled people, Samhall and so on, comes back to Parliament in a proposal from the government. In the case of social enterprises, the Employment Service has a strategy programme. I think this is an interesting point that the Moderates raise in this debate. Here too, the government will come back with proposals, and this is something with which I can sympathise.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-232	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Raimo Pärssinen! Many of the long-term unemployed are not happier to hear that everything is being prepared at the Ministry of Labour. The match investigation is complete, and this government has been in office for 14 months, so it could have gone much further. I have a little thought that leads to my next question. Does the government see that the solution for the 35 000 - 36 000 currently available in the employment phase should be only education and additional services? Education is absolutely good. But do the government and the government's parties in parliament believe that the extra services will solve the situation? That question requires an answer. This is primarily about the public sector. It is good that the chairman is travelling in Sweden and meets both municipalities and employment agencies. I think it would be good if the chairman of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs could also meet more private employers. Because that's where the jobs grow. He will also see that many people are willing and willing to accept people if you get the right support. Just matching positions, for example, and the way through Samhall is about those who have been outside for a long time getting support to enter the labour market, even in the private part of the labour market where most jobs are located and where the jobs grow most. Does the President see that additional services will be sufficient for all the thousands of people who today are far from the labour market?
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-236	Mr President, I would like to No, I don't see that just extra favors are enough. Many of these people will go into an education. Preparatory training will also lead some people to move on to even more education. I know some individuals in phase 3 who want to go to college. It's gonna take some time. It is being organised between municipalities and Arbetsförmedlingen. Therefore, it will also take time to phase out. But extra services are not enough. Some also need intensified matching from Arbetsförmedlingen. Work mediators themselves and research say that if more people can work with the unemployed, we can reach longer and get better results. There is therefore a need for intensified mediation, training and then jobs in auxiliary services. The main thing is that we open up, that we can give them some space and some living space. The solution that Elisabeth Svantesson stood for when creating phase 3 was not good. Perhaps we can agree on that. Now, as I said, we are trying to open the door to the individuals and give them more options based on their conditions, an opportunity to get back on their feet in life.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-241	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal as a whole to be approved in the report. We see improved economic development in the outside world and in Sweden. Employment continues to increase and the number of jobs is at a high level. The reception of new arrivals creates many jobs in the short term and stimulates Sweden's economy. Transport, trade, security, school and construction are benefiting. Authorities such as the Finnish Immigration Service and the Swedish Employment Service, as well as Swedish municipalities, employ thousands of new employees. The long-term impact depends on the integration of refugees into the labour market. In the last two decades, it has not been easy for young people to enter and establish themselves in the labour market. A high unemployment rate has stuck. It is therefore gratifying that youth unemployment is now falling, even though it is still at high levels. In Nyköping, where I live, Noora also lives from Iraq. She had the opportunity to work at the library in Nyköping. I met her a few weeks ago. She told me that her place at the library has strengthened her confidence. Precisely to practice and improve Swedish has been one of the goals of the youth internship. Another objective has been to move closer to the labour market. A third goal has been to improve the quality of life for participants. Noora took her practice seriously, and for her all three goals have been met. Yesterday I heard that Noora has been given a fixed-term position at the library and that she is also regularly lent to the library at Campus Nyköping, where adult education is conducted. There they have great use for her language skills. Mr President, I would like to Those most affected by youth unemployment are young people who lack upper secondary education and young people born outside Europe. That's why the government's efforts are so important. A broad mobilisation and collaboration between several actors such as Arbetsförmedlingen, the municipalities, county councils and the business community is necessary. But this also applies to more targeted measures to really reach those groups that need special support to get to work. That is precisely the government's priority. It is also gratifying that a large majority of the country's municipalities have a local agreement with Arbetsförmedlingen. It is important that work on youth unemployment is carried out in a more strategic and coordinated way. Unemployment in our country is unevenly distributed. More and more people are finding it more difficult to establish a firm position in the labour market. People with disabilities with reduced working capacity, low educational backgrounds and people born outside Europe find it difficult to enter the labour market, even during the boom. It is therefore important that labour market policies create proper conditions for combating and combating long-term unemployment. That's exactly what the government is doing now. The Green Party believes it is important that there is a rich variety of efforts to make precisely to strengthen the possibility for those people to find a job. It could be education. It could be work experience. It may be subsidised employment or other. People need different solutions depending on where they are in life, but most important is that these efforts are effective and can lead to a job and hence their own livelihood. The Green Party is pleased that the government is pursuing a policy in which investment in education and training is high on the agenda. If we can raise the skills of people who are far from the labour market, it is both effective and encouraging. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to say that it is good that the government is clear that work-integrated social enterprises will continue to play an important role in labour market policy, especially in the palette of actions that will replace phase 3.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-253	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask Marco Venega the same question I put to Raimo Pärssinen earlier. He owed me the answer. I was never told how he views the increase, that the government is raising taxes on jobs and businesses by 29 billion in the budget. The second part of the budget compensates municipalities and county councils despite the fact that there will not be fewer jobs. But no compensation is given to companies. How does Marco Venega view the raise? Will it lead to more or fewer jobs in companies?
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-255	Mr President, I would like to As I said at the outset in my speech, the new situation that we are facing today has created a great many jobs, including in the municipalities. It will be much easier for many young people and people who are currently unemployed to enter the ordinary labour market as well as to raise their skills.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-257	Mr President, I would like to Even in this line shift, I don't get an answer. With 29 billion in increased taxes on jobs and businesses, will there be more or fewer jobs available for young people who have just finished school looking for jobs, for newcomers and for everyone else? I have a quote from Per Bolund that is linked to a previous debate on employers' contributions for young people. He said that raising employers' contributions for young people risks tearing up a reform, and that will mean that many young people lose their jobs. I still want an answer to the question: how can the government – when it targets the EU's lowest unemployment rate in 2020 – increase the tax burden on companies by over SEK 29 billion? Who will achieve the goal set by the government? Is this through training and labour market measures? Or is it through real work?
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-260	Mr President, I would like to It's important to have real jobs. Let me give you an example that can make things a little clearer. In my municipality of residence there were 7 per cent unemployed. It moved there a German company that needed welders. They employed between five and six welders a week, and there are quite a few. We emptied the entire municipality and neighboring municipality of welders who got jobs at the company. Suddenly there were no more welders. But the municipality was still 6.5 per cent unemployed. This means that if people do not have the skills that businesses need, it does not matter how many unemployed people there are. Therefore, it is very important that the government now invests in the education of people so that they can raise their skills to get a job. What the government is doing right now is very important: to give people the conditions to improve their skills.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-264	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is doing well now. We have a strong growth of new jobs, over 80,000 new jobs over the past year. Fixed-term contracts are decreasing and permanent jobs are increasing. The employment rate, which was already highest in the EU, is rising most for women born abroad. This is a very encouraging development. Unemployment is falling clearly. Even long-term unemployment, which has unfortunately remained still for very many years, is now taking a clear step downwards. Youth unemployment is falling fastest. It is over 3 percentage points lower in the past year. So Sweden is doing well right now. But, Mr President, not everyone in Sweden is doing well. For me, the government and the budget that we represent, it is unacceptable to leave certain people and groups outside the labour market or in poverty. That is why the policy rescheduling of this budget is necessary. These are the long-term unemployed and disabled people who were parked under the old government in phase 3. It's about new arrivals who got to meet an establishment slot as the main effort instead of getting help to get jobs based on their conditions and in their profession. It is about the young people who do not have upper secondary school skills and are therefore very poorly equipped to enter the Swedish labour market. Now we are changing the course in these areas. We're going to phase out phase 3 and give people the opportunity to work and education. It will not be a single measure. There are 37,000 individuals in phase 3. They have very different conditions and very different needs. That is precisely why we need flexibility and a variety of measures. One important contribution is education. Education provides new and fresh skills to use in the labour market. There are unbelievably few of those who are long-term unemployed who, under the old government, were given a chance of education. This is unreasonable given the educational requirements on the Swedish labour market. We invest in active efforts to use the entire toolbox available at Arbetsförmedlingen so that you can get efforts based on your conditions. We are introducing more wage subsidies. More people should be able to get a wage subsidy employment. We are also changing wage subsidies, and there are more jobs in Samhall. I heard that there was a call for a shorter temporary employment in Samhall. At least a thousand of the new jobs will be so-called development jobs in Samhall. We have extra services in welfare. During the autumn there have been children of school age in Sweden corresponding to 100 school classes a week. It will grow quickly out in schools, and these are major challenges. Many schools are in great need of teachers. Many schools also welcome more adults in school who speak the Swedish language and who can be a resource alongside the teacher. Schools also welcome more adults who speak a language other than Swedish and who can be a resource alongside the teacher. For example, extra services can be used for this. We are abolishing the heavily criticised start-ups. We talked about this more when we debated the previous report. We are investing in fast track, and we are making new investments for those who have low or no education with them to Sweden where vocational training and education at primary school level can be combined in new flexible forms. Mr President, I would like to We're going to solve youth unemployment for real. No young person should go unemployed for more than 90 days. It's a big commitment. Under the old government, youth unemployment was up to 25 per cent. It was so high that we received EU support to take care of our own young people. Youth unemployment is now declining, but that is not enough. This is why we have started a collaboration with 288 of Sweden's 290 municipalities. I am so glad that all these 288 municipalities have been able to put party political bickering aside and say: Okay, now we are working together for our young people. Now the state and municipalities work together around young people. The most difficult young people are those who have not passed high school. There's usually a reason you haven't. This may be because you were bullied at school, you had social problems and you had a disability. There are a lot of different reasons why you didn't pass high school. Common to most of these youths is that they do not long back to school. It is therefore a challenge to find young people, motivate them and ensure that they actually pass their studies. There we introduce a new amount of flexibility for Arbetsförmedlingen, in cooperation with the municipalities, to use resources flexibly and combine practice, work and education in new ways based on each individual's needs and conditions. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would just like to say a few words to explain the difference between contributions and insurance. We make sure we get protection in the event of an accident. If the house burns down or I get out of work, I won't have to get poor too. That is how insurance works, and so is unemployment insurance. We pay a premium and hope that we will never have to take advantage of the insurance and get a, as I hear others call it. You take advantage of your insurance, but you hope you don't get the accident. Mr President, I would like to I and the Co-operation Government are prepared to test every serious proposal for a better functioning labour market and new opportunities into the labour market and into jobs. I believe that labour market policy should be pragmatic and flexible. You should always be prepared for reconsideration. I just want to give one piece of business, and that is that we have to spend taxpayers' money in an efficient and responsible way. Given this, I am prepared to give serious consideration to all proposals. Mr President, I would like to I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for your cooperation and for the vigorous debates in this House and elsewhere. I wish my fellow debaters a nice Christmas break! We need new energy, because we have a lot of huge challenges ahead of us.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-286	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for Employment and welcome her to the budget debate. It is a clearly satisfied Minister for Labour who talks about the situation in the country. It's all right, she says. Yes, it does. I would remind the whole government that for a long time it was an alliance government that ruled. As I said in my opening speech, one reason why it is currently going well in the business cycle is that household finances have been pushed through tax cuts. I'm not the one who made it up. I'm the Conjuncture Institute. It's good that it's going well. Let's reschedule, the Minister for Labour proudly says. Then why do you change? Increased taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship do not lead to more jobs. You even acknowledge this in your own budget. The only real shift I am currently looking at from the Minister for Labour is that after just 14 months you have to change your own policy. Where are all the trainee jobs and extra services? Where's the 90-day guarantee? What is it of all the reforms that have now become nothing of that have made things going so well for Sweden right now? I believe that a degree of humility is required by the Minister for Labour in view of developments in the country. My question to the Minister for Labour is whether she shares the Prime Minister's picture. The Prime Minister said some time ago that there is not a shortage of jobs in Sweden, but a lack of education. I can certainly agree that more people need to educate themselves. We have talked about this often in this House. But I have also mentioned that Sweden has a large job deficit for people with lower education. Many of those who are now applying to Sweden have very low levels of education, and it will take a lot for them to get on with work. Education is not always enough. We also need more new jobs. Does the Minister for Labour share the Prime Minister's view that there is no shortage of jobs in Sweden?
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-290	Mr President, I would like to We ruled with the bourgeois budget until this summer, but we have not a single day ruled with a bourgeois labour market policy. We changed it from the beginning. It has also had an effect. The reform of the Public Employment Service is a long way off. We have initiated cooperation with the municipalities and the parties. We liberalise labour market policies and have greater flexibility and professionalisation. The employees at Arbetsförmedlingen can use their own skills in their assessments. This is an important change compared to the old government's time. Sweden is doing well. But as I said, things are not going well for all people in Sweden. That is why we need a rescheduling of the policy so that everyone can share in the positive developments in our country. It is true that we have often spoken in this House about the need for education. But it is only with this government's budget that there will be major investment in education and new opportunities for the unemployed to get training, unlike the old government. We need both more jobs and better equip people for the vacancies that currently exist and are not being filled. Sweden has never had so many vacancies before in history as we have now. However, we still need a policy to create more jobs. It is not enough with the 100 000 vacancies that now exist. However, if we cannot fill the job vacancies, we will have a poorer functioning labour market, and this will in turn hamper job growth. The 90-day guarantee is under way. I feel very satisfied and I am positively surprised by the very strong and good cooperation and how far the 90-day guarantee has now come in cooperation between Arbetsförmedlingen and the municipalities. It's not about a simple move or a line we can make at the Department of Labour. It's about making real changes.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-295	Mr President, I would like to I find it very funny that the Minister for Labour is saying something that I myself claimed as Minister for Labour, namely that it is not a line in a department or at Sveavägen 38 that makes jobs grow. Then the question is: Where is employment policy? I know that the Minister for Labour is now changing the policy. I think it is very good that Arbetsförmedlingen has a new Director General who has got off to a good start. The problem is – as I said in my main speech – that it is not labour market policy that leads to more jobs. But where is this government's employment policy? That is the big question. How can the Minister for Labour have the high tone, both before the elections and now, and argue that she will solve this issue of labour market policy? It's important to equip. I think we should have honesty in the debate. We have had plenty of training places in Sweden for many years. For example, we also had the increased study allowance for long-term unemployed young people, and there are many training places. But it is not the number of training places that will determine the success of this country, but, of course, the quality of the training places. That is why, for example, we want to cut back on labour market training, which unfortunately has no effect whatsoever and instead invest in what has an effect. But so far we do not know much about the government's so-called employment policy. We know a great deal about labour market policy, about places in the public sector that young people and the long-term unemployed should have. There can certainly be good things for individuals with this, but the problem is that the government relies entirely on a labour market policy that deals with places in the public sector that the young and the long-term unemployed should enter, but which does not include the rest of the labour market. The government doesn't want to see jobs grow. That's the situation. We can stand here for years and talk about the role of labour market policy. But we need an active employment policy. We have a job deficit in the economy. That is why we need a job policy.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-300	Mr President, I would like to So lovely then that we have a job policy and that it can also deliver! It's sad about the Moderates that there are so many blinders. If it isn't tax policy, it's not politics. If it is not tax cuts, it will not have any effect. Tax policy is important for jobs. But much more is even more important to jobs. What we need right now, and what the government is doing, is huge investment. We have major disadvantaged areas where investment is required. I just want to mention housing and infrastructure, which in itself creates jobs but which is also an important prerequisite for sustainable growth in our country. Many years of underinvestment hamper job growth in many growth regions. We are investing heavily in exports with a new export strategy and a completely new active policy. We make historically large investments in education, which is incredibly important for us to be able to manage to fill jobs and drive innovation and productivity development, which in turn is also important. As far as the quality of education is concerned, I can say that the old government was criticised in the higher education system for having a quality system that did not meet European standards. Today, the government has decided on a new quality strategy that meets European standards.
i-XMZi7X56mAsytXSE5fMC2G	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered by Minister for Enterprise and Innovation Mikael Damberg, Minister for Employment Ylva Johansson, Minister Ibrahim Baylan, Minister for Defence Peter Hultqvist and Minister Gabriel Wikström. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. Minister for Enterprise and Innovation Mikael Damberg answers both general policy questions and questions within his own area of responsibility.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-305	Mr President, I would like to I turn to Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist. We have, of course, today had continued discussions between the government and the opposition on the Swedish response to France's request under the Treaty of Lisbon 42.7, on aid and support in the event of crisis or war, following the terrible attack in Paris. In parallel, there has been a letter from the United States, addressed to the Swedish Ministry of Defence, about help and support in the fight against Daish. First of all, I would like to ask the Minister for Defence how he and the Ministry would respond in concrete terms to the request that exists and what could be done from the Swedish side in relation to what is listed in the letter. Secondly, I would like to ask whether there have been any contacts orally, before or after the letter, between the Swedish Ministry of Defence and the US Department of Defence? In brackets, our combat aircraft operation in Libya a number of years ago cost about $250 million. So the question is: what would the Minister of Defence want to do to listen to the United States?
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-308	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mr Wallmark for the question. The letter is subject to both defence and foreign secrecy, so I cannot explain the content. However, we have received a request from France under the Treaty of Lisbon 42.7, which is currently being discussed and discussed, as Mr Wallmark states. It's supposed to be connected to the American letter. The concrete response will be formulated when we are finished with the negotiation and hopefully the broad political agreement that this will include. I knew this letter would come. On the other hand, I was not aware of any of the concrete content in advance.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-311	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Defence, for your answer. We in the opposition have today expressed our desire to get all or part of the letter out in order to form an opinion ourselves. From what I understand, at least by information in the media, there are a number of different things that the United States believes friendly countries – where Sweden counts – could contribute. Without the Minister for Defence having had to go into the exact wording of the letter, it would have been interesting to hear the Minister for Defence's views on which military elements could be contributed. You can either do very little or a little more. As I mentioned, the effort we made in Libya cost 220 million three years ago. The question is what level of ambition the Minister for Defence would like to express. Then, as the Minister for Defence said, this is about two different things. On the one hand, we have France's request, which we must respond to in a clear way, and on the other hand we have the letter of America. However, they do have the same purpose, namely the fight against Daish.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-315	Mr President, I would like to Of course, France and the United States are joining forces here in a joint effort to complement each other. I do not want to anticipate the current discussions. On the other hand, I think it is very important that there is military substance in what is ultimately achieved. Regardless of how you see this, it also takes military ability to cope with the fight against Daish. There different countries can contribute in different ways.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-318	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask my question to Prime Minister Gabriel Wikström. I would like to touch on the issue of displacement effects in health care. Many refugees and asylum seekers show great ill health, both psychological and somatic. The health care system is very strained, and we have received indications from several of our representatives in the county councils that there is a great deal of pressure on health centres, in child health care and in maternity care, to name but a few. Some county councils have openly identified long-term so-called displacement effects as a result of strong immigration. In other words, existing resources in the field of health care are allocated to asylum seekers and are therefore taken from the existing population's health care resources, which seriously affect the availability of healthcare.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-322	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by stating that the Swedish health system is very strong. The kind of strained situation that we have seen in, for example, social services and parts of the school system cannot be seen in the same way in health care. However, like Christina Östberg, there are some strained parts of the healthcare system. These are, in particular, health checks for asylum seekers, where the proportion is currently far too low in relation to what would be desirable. For example, the government has today decided on a mission to the Public Health Authority and the National Board of Health and Welfare to see how these health checks could be made more effective, so that more asylum seekers could take part of them. In the autumn budget, the government has also proposed increased general investments in the billion-dollar class of county councils. During the autumn there has also been an additional budget that gives 1.5 billion to the county councils.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-325	Mr President, I would like to In its national situation picture for week 48, the Swedish Civil Contingencies Agency reports that despite increased resources, care efforts are being made. They note that several healthcare activities are affected by the current situation. A recent example reported in P4 Radio Blekinge this week is that more than 1,000 women will not be admitted to the cell sampling this year despite the fact that it has previously been planned – this because maternal health care in Blekinge is so strained. This leads to the need to give priority to planned screenings, which means that many women may have to wait unnecessarily long for a cell sample. Doctors in Blekinge have warned that in the worst case, this can lead to cell changes not being detected in time. This is very serious and worrying for public health.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-328	Mr President, I would like to Christina Östberg gives a concrete example. If I should like to comment on this, I would like to point out that the government is giving a very high priority to health care for women. We allocate nearly SEK 3 billion in 2016 – 2019 to women's health, half of which goes to maternity care and women's health, 520 million to work with women's health in primary care and 700 million for free mammography from mid-year 2016 onwards. It is clear that these are important priorities. As regards the specific issue raised by Christina Östberg, it is also important to see that the most important principle of the Health Act is that care should be provided as needed, and that includes the groups mentioned there. I am not prepared to shake that principle. I can only regret that in some cases this means that certain types of treatment are allowed to persist while others are given priority.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-331	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister for Enterprise and Innovation Mikael Damberg. A recent study from the Global Entrepreneurship Monitor – it is a well-known international survey – has looked at women's entrepreneurship in Sweden. It is noted that between 2013 and 2014 the share fell by 40 per cent. Looking in the rear-view mirror you can see that this is a rather dramatic turn. Compared with the period 2006-2012, for example, when the amount of female entrepreneurship increased by 50,000 companies. 130 000 people were also employed in women's companies. It is now a steep fall. Not only is it breaking a positive trend, but we also stand out in comparison with many other countries.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-335	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by saying that it is incredibly important that we see that entrepreneurship in both women and men is a key element in our ability to achieve our growth ambitions but also our ambitions to push back unemployment across Sweden. Therefore, when you go through these types of surveys, you have to be a little careful about what they reflect. After all, they do not only reflect the number of actual enterprises or the development of employment in enterprises. They also reflect business attitude surveys. I note that this study was carried out during the last parliamentary term, the last year, and was marked by it. It is important, however, that we draw conclusions from this. So far, it's a little hard to see the long-term consequences. You should see this for several years to see if it is a trend break or if it is another way to perceive the issues that lead to this. What we are currently seeing in Sweden in general is a rise in entrepreneurship and a decline in the number of bankruptcies.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-338	Mr President, I would like to But it is such a big change that I think there are reasons to think about this. Personally, I think it is political uncertainty that contributes to this. Of course, when economic conditions and the rules of the game change and are not perceived as safe in the long term, it discourages investment. It puts a wet blanket over entrepreneurship. My main concern is the halving of RUT and, not least, the discussion and investigation of welfare gains. When fewer women choose to become business leaders, it also leads to fewer women enjoying financial power and influence. It is a problem of economic equality. Not least, it is also a problem for the Swedish economy.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-342	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to point out that in the case of Swedish business, there is a strong upward trend in both investment and start-ups, and there is a significant decline in the number of bankruptcies. We also see this in unemployment statistics. Unemployment is falling very sharply, and it is an increase in employment. It's a trend we're seeing. I really take this issue seriously when it comes to equality in systems. The Swedish Agency for Growth has carried out an analysis of how the public system works towards women and men and has developed a strategy for how to follow up on this long-term. We take that very seriously. One must constantly examine how the public but also private actors work towards women and men. Often, public systems may put a group, such as women, at a disadvantage. As far as RUT is concerned, I still want to correct something. It is not a halving of the RUT, it is a halving of the ceiling in the RUT, which may affect a few percent of the people who use the RUT. Most people who use RUT – cleaning a few times a month – are not affected at all by the government's changed policy.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-346	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask a question to Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson. We know that youth unemployment is falling. We see a clearer link between education and the possibility of entering the labour market and remaining in the labour market. The conclusion is that education pays off. Few young people with post-secondary education register with the Employment Service. And among those who get stuck in long-term unemployment, those who have not completed high school dominate. We know that many young people do quite well without special efforts, but there are many young people who need support to enter the labour market. The Government has now appointed a delegation for young people in the labour market, whose mission is to promote a greater impact on labour market policies against youth unemployment at local level. It is about promoting government and municipal collaboration for the development of new forms of collaboration. My question to the Minister for Labour is: how is that work progressing?
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-350	Mr President, I would like to That's exactly what Serkan Köse says. Youth unemployment is now falling very rapidly and has fallen by over 3 percentage points over the past year. But there are still problems for young people who have not passed high school. We know that there are reasons why they have not passed high school. However, the reasons can be very different. Maybe they had learning difficulties. Maybe they had social difficulties. Maybe they were bullied. They may have been exposed to something difficult during their school hours. The reasons vary, but we know one thing: Many youths do not long back to school. We also know that without upper secondary school skills the probability of getting a job is extremely low, and if you get a job you will soon be out of work again. That is why it is now a question of using flexible measures to ensure that every young person reaches the skills needed not only to enter the labour market but also to remain in the labour market.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-353	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Minister for Employment for his answer. I just mentioned the importance of community cooperation. As I see it, that is the basis for successful work. I also believe that civil society, with its peoples' movements, has a major role to play here. I believe that folk high schools have a major role to play on the basis of their specific pedagogy. But it is also about knowledge and the possibility of a large individual adaptation. Can the Minister for Labour develop his view of this by describing how, for example, people's education associations can contribute as effectively as possible?
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-355	Mr President, I would like to We have 288 municipalities that have been working together with their local employment services during the autumn. Every young person between the ages of 16 and 25 has been mapped out who is not working or studying. Common plans have been drawn up for how the state and the municipality can make the best use of their resources to ensure that every single young person actually comes to work and education. Folk high schools, with their pedagogy, have an extremely important role to play. That is why the government is expanding the resources for the folk high schools of these very young people. As I said in my previous speech, it is about making individual contributions. Often you find for each individual both conditions and needs. It may be work a couple of days a week combined with studies, perhaps at folk high school. It is about getting an opportunity for a new start so that you can manage high school and get over previous negative experiences.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-357	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Gabriel Wikström about the snuff. Today, a legislative referral has been sent out regarding the implementation of the Tobacco Directive. Sweden has a derogation in the Accession Treaty with regard to the EU as regards snuff. Thus, the snus should not be included at all in this referral to the Law. Mr Wikström has previously raised the question of the taste of snuff and that one should not mention the taste of the snuff box. But it is not included in the proposal that is currently being referred. That is why I wonder whether Mr Wikström intends to take steps to reintroduce his thoughts precisely in terms of taste and the ban on indicating the taste of snuff in the forthcoming bill, sometime in March.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-360	Mr President, I would like to It is very true that Sweden has an exception with regard to snuff. This is also what the government has chosen to take into account in the legislative referral. It has therefore not included the issue of flavour labelling or not on snuff packaging. This does not exclude the possibility of getting back to the issue, but from a purely public health perspective. But right now there is an investigation going on that will, among other things, look at whether there should be flavoring at all. Then the question of taste marks also comes into this. However, I do not wish to comment further on this until we have received the report of the investigation at the table of the government.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-362	Mr President, I would like to The proposal that is now being referred contains many circumstances that make it difficult for consumers. One is that the Public Health Agency might take over responsibility. In that case, the municipalities would reasonably carry out supervision of this. It would then be optional to include a list of contents. If you remove the snuff from the food law, where it is today and where it is clearly regulated what it may contain, a snuff box can, in principle, contain just anything. The proposal also states that it should not be allowed to indicate how much nicotine the snuff contains. That is very stupid, because then consumers will get more nicotine than they need. In fact, this is how it is: if people were to stop smoking and start snusting, it would be a public health benefit. Therefore, I do not understand why the Government should constantly abuse the Swedish snus.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-365	Mr President, I would like to The Government has to follow decisions made by the Riksdag, and the Riksdag has, among other things, decided that all tobacco use in Sweden should be reduced. No distinction is made as to whether tobacco is smoked or consumed under the lip. What is the government's focus now is to implement the EU's tobacco product directives. Nevertheless, we have taken into account that in the parts concerning the taste label we think that it goes too far into the exception that Sweden has, so we have chosen not to include that. But the other parts are included, and all in all is about protecting people's lives and health. That is the starting point, and this applies whether it is cigarettes or snuff. Further regulation of both snuff and cigarettes may come, but it must be taken after the investigation that is now completed and after the government has made its consideration.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-369	Mr President, I would like to People on the run are a hot issue both in Sweden and in Europe. The government has worked towards a more balanced distribution of reception of refugees between Europe's countries. It was therefore gratifying when the EU Member States agreed on a common distribution of refugees so that all countries would take more responsibility. Unfortunately, the agreement has only proved to be words on one piece of paper. From having previously been a welcoming country, the government now adds cheers from the Swedish Democrats on Sweden's refugee policy to a very restrictive asylum policy. Here they have now extinguished the point of light that previously existed for many refugees to seek refuge and create a better life in Sweden. The government has made it clear that more European countries should take greater responsibility, but instead of targeting the EU and European countries, the government has consistently directed it at refugees. If the Swedish Government is serious, the Swedish EU fee should be withheld. Does the Government consider that Sweden should suspend the levy to the EU until the EU and the countries of Europe comply with the decision on a more solidarity-based reception of refugees?
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-373	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by saying that, during the international refugee disaster of 60 million refugees, Sweden has taken on an exceptionally large responsibility and shown great humanity and great responsibility in Europe. We have always argued that more countries should do like Sweden. Had all the countries of the European Union taken on the responsibility that Sweden has shown in this refugee disaster, this would not have been a major problem for Europe as a whole. Now we can see that so far this has not happened. I would not say that this is just an agreement on paper; I think it is very important to reach agreements with other European countries on sharing responsibilities. We have also met with very strong support from other Member States, the European Commission and other stakeholders in the EU structure to help Sweden in the situation that has arisen. It is therefore an important piece of work that has been done. In my next speech, I will have to answer the specific question about the EU levy.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-376	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It can be noted that other countries have shown muscle by threatening to hold back the payment of the EU levy earlier. The last time it was the United Kingdom that had paid too little in the EU levy and would therefore also pay interest. As a result, the EU decided that the UK would be deferred by one year and that no interest would have to be paid. The refugee crisis has shown that the EU is not working. The EU has broken its own rules and has not complied with the decisions it has taken itself. The EU's work on the refugee crisis has shown that it is both disastrous and severely affecting refugees. We are now seeing how country after country closes its borders. In order to demonstrate how inhumane and bad the EU has acted, the government should suspend the EU levy as a lever for more countries to take responsibility. Sweden tends to boast about the importance it has in the EU, both as an active Member State and as a net contributor to the EU. That is why it weighs heavily if we choose to suspend the EU contribution until the EU assumes its responsibilities on the refugee issue. What does the Government intend to do in order for the EU to assume its responsibilities?
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-380	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would just like to say that it is not a very serious proposal that Sweden, of all the countries of the European Union, should unilaterally decide not to pay its EU contribution. If one believes that other EU countries automatically become much more interested in managing the redistribution of reception of refugees in the EU, I think it is rather counterproductive. So far, no country has ever refrained from paying its EU membership fee. I think you have to see this a little more as a populist move from the Left Party, that you want to draw some simple political points in this way. However, it should be noted that the Riksdag only after the last negotiations on the membership fee in 2014 took a position on the Swedish membership fee and established it. The next time the negotiations on membership fees will start is 2018, and then it is possible for Sweden to negotiate the membership fee and also bring in questions about the discount and the size of it, but not right now. It is not, as the government sees it, a possible way forward.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-384	Mr President, I would like to My question is of a general political nature and is addressed to Minister of Enterprise and Innovation Mikael Damberg. The government wants to abolish the requirement for an elevator to get construction going. That's what Minister of Housing Mehmet Kaplan said yesterday in DN. The reason would be to obtain cheap rentals for asylum seekers. It is about this statement that I do not quite understand the intentions of the government. The government claims to put accessibility and anti-discrimination issues very high on the agenda. Of course, more and faster construction is needed. We are very much in agreement on this. But there are other things to do than to reverse development by acting that excludes and excludes. We already have a rather inaccessible stock in our older apartment blocks. My question is: Is it really the intention of the government to increase inaccessibility and exclusion in such a fundamental policy area as housing?
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-389	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to say that we have a rather exceptional political situation in Sweden. In a short time we have received a great many people who have come to our country. One of the greatest and most important tasks now is to enable a rapid construction to give shelter to these people. Then we will have to deviate from some principles that we have had in the housing market historically, not least linked to the Swedish Migration Agency's procurements and work to ensure that asylum seekers quickly get a roof over their heads. It is an exceptional situation that requires some exceptional rules, and therefore the Minister for Housing has made it clear that we are both reviewing simplification work and, in parallel, making the biggest investment in a very long time in increased housing construction. We give incentives to build rental apartments, but we also give incentives to municipalities to build more rental apartments so that more of the people who live here and of those who come to Sweden get a roof over their heads and get a really good housing.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-392	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Housing construction must, of course, increase. We Liberals have also put forward a number of important proposals on this. I understand, of course, that we can take a very different view of what is effective measures to achieve this, and that is not really my question. Basically, it is about municipal planning with time from process to first investment and to the financial risks of construction. To build inaccessible and segregated, can that really be the answer, even if we live in a very tight time where we need to resolve these questions? This would not be based on the equal value and rights of all people, I believe. My question therefore remains: does the government really mean that the equal value and rights of all people do not apply to housing policy?
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-395	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Bengt Eliasson, for the question! I am a little surprised, because I understand that not least the Liberals as a party have been pushing for regulatory simplifications for very many years on the issue of housing policy. Now that the government is moving forward in an exceptional situation and says that we have to blur some rules in an emergency to get more housing in Sweden, I would have expected the Liberals' support in such a discussion. I believe that investment aid is needed both to ensure that we get rental housing and simplified rules on noise, on energy management, on accessibility and on water and waste management. This is what the government intends to do, and I hope that we can get support for it in the Swedish Parliament in order to simplify construction in these years when it is most needed.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-398	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Gabriel Wikström. A debate that has taken more and more place in recent years is about mental illness. We know that it is increasing in many groups, including young girls, but also LGBTQ people are feeling worse and worse. One group that may not have been properly recognised to the extent that they deserve is the Sami who live in Sweden. Now the government allocates another 280 million to tackle mental illness. I would like to know how the government views the mental ill-health of the Sami people and what it intends to do when it comes to tackling the mental ill-health that exists in that group.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-401	Mr President, I would like to Take ck, Magda Rasmusson, for the question! This is just as the questioner describes a major problem among several groups in society, not least among reindeer husbandry Sami. We know that anxiety, depression and suicide are now over-represented in that group. At the same time, we know that the research situation is not as good as it should be and that more could be done. As the questioner points out, the government has invested SEK 280 million more annually than before in the field of mental illness. Especially linked to Sami mental illness, 600 000 SEK has been granted to the three northernmost county councils to promote better collaboration in this area. We have also granted 350 000 SEK to Sametinget to make a summary of knowledge regarding the mental health of the Sami people in Sweden.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-403	Mr President, I would like to I thank you for that answer, and I hope that the government will continue to give priority to this issue. It will be important for Sweden to live up to the principles we want Sweden to live up to when it comes to everyone's equal value. One suggestion that I know several Sami organisations themselves highlight is to review health care and access to health care. There they highlight Norway as a pioneer country. In Norway, a special knowledge centre has been set up to seek treatment. Those who work there have competence in the Sami culture, language and way of life. It provides increased security to seek treatment there. I would like to hear how the Government sees the possibility of doing the same in Sweden because we know that several county councils actually refer Sami residents of Sweden to Norway. It's weird. One wish would be that this work can also be done in Sweden so that all Swedish citizens have access to good care and the respect they deserve.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-406	Mr President, I would like to As I pointed out in my first speech, it is far too poor a knowledge of Sami mental illness. It must be improved within the Swedish healthcare sector specifically and in Swedish society in general. I myself had the privilege of meeting researchers who have done research on mental health problems in Sami people this spring. They also mentioned the example from Norway. This is an interesting example, and I know that officials at the Ministry of Social Affairs are following developments in Norway and seeing what we have to learn from it. In the first place, I believe that the most important thing is to achieve better cooperation among the county councils concerned. It is also important to get a better overview of knowledge. What are the problems in detail, and what measures could be effective in a Swedish context? I am no stranger at all to also look at the Norwegian example and learn clear lessons from it.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-410	Mr President, I would like to There is a humanitarian crisis in the world that leads many refugees to visit our country as well. This means, of course, a situation in which the Riksdag may need to legislate in order to deal with the situation more quickly than in other cases. When we draw up these laws, it is extremely important that we are careful and that the Parliament receives the necessary information so that the members can take a stand and make decisions on the best possible basis. When, at the end of last week, the government informed me that a legislative referral was on its way out, I tried to seek the information that I could need as a legislator in order to be able to make decisions. Very little information is available on the Government's website. On Friday came the council referral. We could take part of it. On the night of Monday, I sent a request to the Ministry of Industry to get the information, that is, the referral that had been sent out. I also asked for the consultation status and referrals. Is this a satisfactory procedure?
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-413	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I believe that the issue is now the subject of a KU notification. It is reasonable for the KU to examine the matter. The government must, of course, handle things properly. Now there's a report, and now the KU has to do its job. What is becoming a little more complicated in this matter is the seriousness of the situation. This is where the Government and the Law Council have had different views on the urgency of the situation. With regard to an emergency situation, which our expert authorities in particular warn against, the KU has previously stated that it will be possible to carry out the work at a much faster pace. For example, during the financial crisis a similar parallel was made. The government says the situation is so urgent. Our expert authorities are warning of the situation. Then we must act at a higher speed in order to be able to assume our responsibilities as a government. I note that the question of how the case has been handled is the subject of a hearing in the KU. Then it's the KU that's going to do the job.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-417	Mr President, I would like to It took the government almost three full working days, the whole of Monday, the whole of Tuesday and until 15.07 on Wednesday before I received the basis on which we, with a reduced period of exercise in the Riksdag, will raise motions about, which is today. We have had 24 hours to read the summary that the head of the expedition expresses as follows: The work on the legislative referral has not included an ordinary written referral procedure. There is therefore no consultation document that is public document that I can take part of. It wasn't until yesterday. 15.07 the replies of all the referrals, i.e. the oral answers which have been recorded. I have a question for the Government as the highest responsible for the Ministry of Industry: Is it reasonable that we legislators should not be allowed to take part in documents which are public documents in good time and which actually exist in such a hurry?
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-420	Mr President, I would like to As the matter is the subject of a KU notification, it is KU that is to assess whether the handling has been correct or not. In principle, I would like to say that the Government has assessed, on the basis of the evidence provided by expert authorities to the Government, that it is such an emergency that we must take action quickly. Then not all procedures can be followed as in ordinary preparation of a case. Then the time aspect becomes another. In this case, the collection of information and the handling of referrals were also different. There were telephone lines and verbally, not in writing as is usual. We all have the intention of making this work as accurate, transparent and transparent as possible. But at this point there has been a great time pressure, and it has led us to work in a somewhat different way. The KU will review this, and it welcomes the government.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-424	Mr President, I would like to I would like to put my question to Minister of Defence Peter Hultqvist. In 2010, FXM, the Swedish Defence Export Agency, formed the then alliance government. It had three main tasks: promoting Swedish defence exports, but only when the exports contribute to the Swedish defence, responsible for intergovernmental defence export transactions and managing the sale of surplus material from the Swedish Armed Forces. Unfortunately, the S-MP government has now decided to close the Swedish Defence Export Agency. 31 December is the last date on which the authority exists. Statskontoret presented a report last year showing that the agency has increased the transparency of our exports well. How does the Government intend to ensure that transparency and also the ability to promote defence exports will continue to apply?
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-428	Mr President, I would like to I attended an assembly yesterday where the work was officially completed. It is true that the questioner says that 31 December is the final date. The experience and knowledge that has been built up within the framework of FXM must be transferred to the new organisation. FXM passes into FMV. FXM's management has worked with this in connection with the planned transition. It is not the end of the experience that has been built up in the years that this authority has existed. We do not go back to the old, but it is a development to something new that will live on within the framework of FMV.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-431	Mr President, I would like to I find it very sad that S has paid this price to the Green Party. I also attended the event yesterday, but somewhat later than the Minister for Defence. I spoke to representatives of a great deal of the defence industry. I also spoke to future former Directors-General. They are concerned about how this will be handled in the future. I didn't think I got a really good answer to that from the Secretary of Defense. I think that the Green Party, which has not been very fond of defence exports in the past, should also think that this is an important authority for proper transparency. You saw how it happened – that it was handled in a good way and worked hard against corruption. So I am still waiting for the answer. Otherwise, I will continue to ask what it will look like in the future. How can FMV do this, and how does it manage the balance between purchasing and exporting?
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-435	Mr President, I would like to Both Director General Hammarström and I stressed in our respective speeches yesterday that it is now a matter of transferring the experience that FXM has built up over these years to the new way of working within FMV. That was the approach that was announced yesterday. It's something you've been working on as a preparation. There is an organisation that will work on this within the framework of FMV and assert our interests in terms of export promotion and intergovernmental projects. FXM has during its period been active in the Brazil deal and worked actively with Switzerland, where we did not arrive at the first stage but hope for a deal in a future. Now it's time to continue working with those experiences. The level of competence should, so to speak, enter the upcoming organisation. I am sure we will have to come back to this.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-439	Mr President, I would like to The government wanted the opportunity to close the traffic or parts of the traffic over the Öresund Bridge. One day you were for this, and the other day – the next – you weren't for it. I wonder what happened and why the government withdrew it. It can't just have to do with the Council of Law's criticisms, because it went forward with other proposals that were also criticised by the Law Council. They also went out into the media and defended the proposal despite the criticisms of the Law Council. I am therefore curious as to why the government withdrew the proposal to close the bridge to traffic.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-442	Mr President, I would like to There is, of course, a difference between the two proposals that were discussed here – the one on ID controls and the one on the transfer of mandates from the Riksdag to the Government so that in a crisis situation we have the opportunity to close, for example, the bridge link between Denmark and Sweden. The difference is that when it comes to identity checks, the government considers that it is an urgent issue that requires much faster handling, while the question of transferring mandates from parliament to government is not something that we have planned for. It is not on the table, and therefore it does not require prompt processing. Therefore, there was every reason to listen to what the parties here in the Swedish Parliament think and think about this issue in order to create as broad support as possible but also to listen to the Council's criticism – that in this part there was not the same need for rapid processing as in the question of ID controls. That is why the government has chosen to wait to present that proposal and to hold further discussions with the parties.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-445	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister. I take it that the proposal is not dead but that it may return at a later date. We in the Swedish Democrats think it is a good thing to have this openness towards our neighbour Denmark. For those who commute work and for those who go on leisure trips or for that matter to Kastrup to fly it should be easy to do so. But we also think that it is an important proposal to be able to act quickly to close traffic across the bridge if there are situations – for example because of immigration, which in this case – that put enormous pressure on Sweden. In this connection, I ask the question: is the proposal still up to date, and does the government intend to come back with a similar proposal at a later date when it has been prepared more?
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-449	Mr President, I would like to One should be aware that across the bridge every day about 19 000 vehicles, of which about 17 000 passenger cars, are travelling, so it is clear that if one is to consider closing the bridge – in the media debate, there has been a discussion that we had such proposals, which we did not have; we had a discussion about transferring the responsibility and mandate to take such an exceptional measure in a crisis – it has serious consequences for the region. I can understand that many people, not least in the Skåne region, have been worried and wondered if there is any imminent closure of the bridge in the plans. However, we cannot rule out, either here in Parliament or in the government, that at some point we may also have to make extreme decisions. This autumn has shown that we cannot just plan because we think we know what will happen in a week, two weeks or three weeks. That is why there is still a willingness to discuss this issue. The alternative is for the Riksdag to make decisions at very short notice or to transfer the responsibility to the government to make that assessment.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-453	Mr President, I would like to I address my question to Minister of Energy Ibrahim Baylan. After all, the energy sector, and not least the electricity market, are facing major challenges. The aim is to achieve a successful climate policy, i.e. low-carbon energy production. Increases in renewable energy, the creation of local and small-scale production and, not least, the development of smart grids and smart homes are some examples of these challenges. The issue of electricity supply is also crucial, not least when it comes to ensuring that there is always enough power to meet demand at any given time. The question of the future of the Swedish power reserve and its importance has been and is the subject of discussions between the actors in the electricity market. According to the current parliamentary decision, the Swedish power reserve will be phased out by 2020. My question to the Minister for Energy is what conclusions he draws about the Swedish impact situation after 2020 and what possible measures the Government intends to take.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-458	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Ingemar Nilsson, for the question – a very important question! The background is that the then government proposed in 2010 that the Riksdag effect the service, i.e. the ability of Swedish railway networks to procure both additional power reserves and demand response in the industry. The idea of the previous government was that, in the meantime, there would be a reserve in the market and that there would also be a demand response for households and industry. We can see that this has not happened – quite the opposite. With falling prices, the probability that the market will solve this is very small. The government has therefore announced and will present a proposal for an extension until 2025 in the next month. In the meantime, a proper discussion will be held in the Energy Commission that is currently working.
i-FWLhBhSYtiHx9Km8erLupF	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It is a bit exciting that the Minister for Energy is now giving hints of the proposals that are coming. But does the Minister of Energy see more concrete alternative solutions? Is it the case that the issue of the power reserve is only a matter for Sweden and for the Swedish energy market and the electricity market? Could there be other alternative solutions, such as transmission capacity from other countries? The question is whether there are also other technical solutions than the ones we are seeing today, that is to say that we have a number of oil power plants that form the Swedish power reserve. What are alternative technical solutions?
i-NrgAoGQVFR27AQkAYk8aVn	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Ingemar Nilsson, for the development of the question! It is important to be aware that the Nordic electricity system is connected. Therefore, there is reason to look at this issue, the issue of impact, broadly. Therefore, at the initiative of Sweden, the Nordic Council of Ministers has decided to develop a joint action plan. But while waiting for it and waiting for the Energy Commission to carry out its mission, it is important that we can at least extend this to 2025. Therefore, it is my ambition to present a proposal to the Riksdag for such an extension and, before that, to hold talks with a number of parties in the Riksdag so that we can also have a broad consensus on this. For me, it is a practical matter to ensure that our industry and our households always have electricity available at reasonable prices.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-469	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to the Secretary of Defense. At the same time as we meet, the Nobel Peace Prize is awarded in Oslo to the Tunisian Dialogue Quartet. In order to achieve a peaceful democratic dialogue, two to tango is required, and in this case four. Anyone who doesn't want to tango at all these days is Russia, and the effect of that is an increasingly strained incident preparedness. In order to get combat flights into the air, not only two but a whole line dance is needed to make it operational. We need combat control, base protection, technicians and workshops. A few weeks ago, the head of the air repair shops alerted the Air Safety Inspectorate that they are unable to carry out their duties because another authority is running over their decision-making order. There are therefore two authorities under the responsibility of the Minister for Defence who cannot talk to each other. That is certainly not the case. It has serious consequences. What does the Secretary of Defense intend to do about it?
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-472	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. I note that this is a matter that has been dealt with between the Aviation Safety Inspectorate and FMV. They are authorised to operate until further notice. At the same time, the question marks raised in this connection should be taken seriously and an organisation should be set up that will work in the future and meet the various requirements that can be imposed on aviation safety.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-473	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Defence, for a brief, concise and comprehensive answer. I'm glad that thing's worked out. However, this does not mean that the whole chain for getting fighter aircraft into the air is loose. The basic business, that is to say the workshop business, is the custom n a time back somewhat reduced. It's about the rear maintenance. There is a direct frontal maintenance and a longer back maintenance for the material effort of a fighter aircraft because of its mission. It's a chain that obviously has to stick together. We can get as many aircraft as we like, which is often discussed, but if we do not get them into the air because there are not enough back resources, it puts a stop to the importance of getting them into the air.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-477	Mr President, I would like to In connection with my role as Chairman of the Defence Committee, I visited the operations at the base in Ronneby, where it was intended to reduce precisely the workshop capacity. For repair and maintenance the planes would be flown to Luleå. I talked about it in different political contexts during that time and thought it felt like an unreasonable development. What we can now take part in is, among other things, an effect of it. Let us look at these questions for the future. Organising this is ultimately a responsibility of authority. It is FMV's responsibility to clarify such issues. It is very much worth arguing about the effects of decisions taken in a previous government period.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-481	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson. The government has, for economic and labour market policy, an unemployment rate of which it has done a great deal: that Sweden will have the lowest unemployment rate in the EU by 2020. At the same time, the government's employment and employment policies are condemned by several expert authorities. Many believe that the target cannot be reached. Now we hear various statements from ministers. For example, the Labour Minister himself said the other week that it has become tougher to reach the goal. The Minister of Finance was out and said that it is more challenging to reach the goal than before.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-485	Mr President, I would like to It is true that the government has very ambitious targets in terms of employment and unemployment. Comparisons can be made with the objective set by the previous government, namely to achieve 5 million jobs by 2020. That is an objective that we are already close to achieving. It is true that we have ambitious targets in the government. What has happened since the targets were set is that this autumn we have seen an exceptional situation in the world, in Europe and, not least, in our country with regard to asylum seekers who have applied to us. Of course, this affects the conditions. People are resources. They will be able to contribute in our country. But we know that it takes some time for them to get to work. This makes it harder to reach the target, but it does not mean that the government abandons its ambitious goal.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-488	Mr President, I would like to The truth is that the government's employment policy was condemned long before this autumn. The Council of Finance Ministers, the Institute of Economic Affairs and other expert authorities have been critical, as has the opposition, of course. It comes as a little late awakening, and the question remains. If, with such a great deal of noise, and with such enthusiasm, an unemployment target is being launched, and we now see how minister after minister goes out and apparently starts retreating from the case, it would be a good idea if the government were clear and clear: yes, we are abandoning our unemployment target. We're not going to reach that. Or the government could simply start pursuing policies that create jobs so that the goal can be achieved. But it doesn't seem to be on the horizon that it should happen.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-491	Mr President, I would like to I can tell Fredrik Malm that the opposition is critical, but when the opposition had government power, unemployment increased. The situation we are currently in on the labour market is that things are going quite well. Employment is increasing. More than 80 000 new jobs have been created in the last year. We have never had as many vacancies in Sweden as we have now. The employment rate has risen from a level that was already Europe's highest. Now it is increasing further. In particular, it is increasing for women born abroad. Unemployment is falling. But even if the labour market is doing well, that does not mean that we do not have major challenges to achieve a very ambitious goal. It would, of course, be to turn a blind eye to the reality of not admitting that it has become more difficult, given that, unlike other countries in the European Union, we have received a great many more asylum seekers. We have done this for humanitarian reasons, in order to provide people with protection at a very difficult time. That does not mean that the government is abandoning its goal.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-493	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Enterprise Mikael Damberg. On 26 November, the Ministry of Industry received a letter from the Director-General of Boverket stressing the need for and proposing amendments to the Planning and Construction Act to meet the need to quickly obtain housing. They propose a whole new paragraph which would allow the government to provide for temporary derogations from several rules at law level in many areas. This applies, for example, to planning processes, building permits and general interests in order to resolve the emergency situation. They forecast a need for 600 000 homes compared to 250 000, which is the government's objective. Does the government intend to answer Boverket anything? When will the government return to Parliament with proposals for exceptions in the Planning and Construction Act to meet the need for housing, given the emergency situation?
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-496	Mr President, I would like to Let me say that the matter belongs in the Ministry of Industry, but that it is the responsibility of another minister. It is absolutely true that Boverket has come in with reports and pointed out the situation that exists in Sweden today with overcrowding, that children suffer in certain environments and that the conditions are very different in different parts of the country. They have also made some recommendations. We take all the recommendations and input very seriously in the Government Office. We are now in a situation where we will have to build much more over the next few years. In the latest budget submitted by the government, we are making the biggest investment in housing construction in a very long time. We do this to create rental apartments but also to provide an investment incentive for municipalities to free up land. It alone will not solve the issue. It will also be working on regulatory simplifications to get construction started in Sweden.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-500	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for answering the question. In a debate on housing policy last Monday, although I asked the question twice, I did not receive an answer from the minister responsible. I can note that Sweden's Municipalities and County Councils have also called on the government to continue regulatory simplification work, for example in order to be able to convert premises into housing, and to make their own assessment of whether there is a need for a plan change somewhere to get more housing. It was already proposed during the last term by the Alliance Government but was voted down by the majority with the support of the Swedish Democrats. Given the situation we now have in which many people remain in asylum homes, despite the fact that they have been granted a residence permit and given that even more are expected to receive it in the future: What measures is the government prepared to take that will make it easier for new arrivals to enter the ordinary housing market and allow municipalities to contribute to this without, as many do today, breaking the law?
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-503	Mr President, I would like to We have looked at the rules to help the Migration Agency and make it easier to get construction housing. We have looked at regulatory simplifications to make these accommodations faster and easier without compromising safety. The government is working extensively on the issue of regulatory simplifications to transform premises into housing. These can be noise regulations, energy management, accessibility and management of both water and waste. Boverket has started a special service for municipalities and others to be able to ask questions about the Planning and Construction Act and get help to determine how they can proceed faster. This is a priority, both in terms of regulatory simplification and the support given to municipalities to ensure that the pace of construction after many years with far too weak housing construction is maintained.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-508	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask the Minister for Sport Gabriel Wikström about women and sport. Sport is in many ways an important part of Swedish society and engages a large part of the Swedish population. Sport contributes to the creation of standards. But while our society is becoming increasingly equal, there is one area that does not, and that is sport. This week we have heard about elite practitioners who, when they become pregnant, are not allowed to retain their sponsors, and on the local level, girls often do not get as good training times as for example boys' teams. For there to be equal opportunities for sports, one must have a level playing field, and my question then becomes: how are the conditions for female sports to be strengthened?
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-512	Mr President, I would like to I thank Ida Ekeroth for the question. This is an extremely urgent matter for the government. I can begin by saying that the sports movement, which is Sweden's broadest popular movement, in many ways reflects what society looks like in general and the structures that exist there. As with all aspects of gender equality, we know that these structures must be tackled at the same time. In sport, it is a matter of leadership, of training and mapping the situation and of what can be done by both specialist associations and local sports associations to improve the situation. It is a purely political issue that concerns how we shape our support at national and local level. At the local level, it is often a question of plant issues. We know that when the plant shortage is removed, it is particularly beneficial that girls and women, who often suffer when there are no facilities, suffer.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-516	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for your answer, Minister. As a former hockey player – it's a very male-dominated sport – I know that this issue is very important. I am pleased with the answer that you are working on this issue and that it is a priority.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-519	Mr President, I would like to I think, as I said, that the issue is urgent, and we need to have a dialogue with municipal representatives on the ways in which they can facilitate, not least by renovating but also by building new facilities. At the end of my previous speech, I pointed out that new facilities and building away the shortage often benefit girls and women, who get better hall times and can practice their sports in a completely different way. From the state side, we are now going in and increasing support for the sports movement. At the same time as we do so, we are also conducting a dialogue with the Swedish Sports Federation on how to distribute the support to sports associations throughout the country. I know that there is work going on to review whether there can be support that better promotes equality and equality among sports associations than at present. It is, of course, long-term work, but I am pleased that we have got started on it.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-523	That concludes today's Question Time. I thank the participating ministers and Members.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-524	Mr President, I would like to It is extremely valuable that the Minister for Labour participates in the budget debate. What I was going to focus on in the line shift is linked to Arbetsförmedlingen, which is the authority in whose knee responsibility for matching issues lands. As the Minister for Labour described, matching is a concern when it comes to the lack of both the knowledge needed and the jobs that could be taken. There is also a shortcoming in the functioning of the Employment Service that we have pointed out from the Center Party. We would like to see a proposal being tested in Australia and other countries, but it is a long-term change. In the current work within Arbetsförmedlingen, it is a lot about a transformation in which the existing frameworks and structures try to improve the operations. We in the Center Party can support that part, because it is extremely important that the model we have works well until one might try another. Once again, there has been a measurement showing a very low level of confidence in the agency and how it works. When you ask those who got a new job during the previous year, only one in 20 says that they have received support and help from the Employment Service. If you look at how many people have been instructed to work, you can see that not even half of those in the Employment Service have received it. This affects the weakest in the labour market most – those who do not have contacts or networks at all. I therefore have a question for the Minister for Labour. The investigation that was closed a year ago and that had the task and purpose to see in depth how the Public Employment Service works and could function should be replaced by a new one. How far has the Minister of Labour got in this work?
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-532	Mr President, I would like to It is an important question about Arbetsförmedlingen. It is true that Annika Qarlsson says that the agency has a low level of trust and significant challenges. During the old government's time, we saw a downward spiral towards increasing dysfunctionality within the agency. It was in a lot of trouble. Now the trend has been reversed, but it is a long journey to make. We have a new labour market policy, which facilitates the development of the Employment Service with more liberalisation, higher levels of freedom and more emphasis on professionalism within the Agency. However, considerable work remains to be done. I do not share the view that it would be negative for many people to get a job without the help of the Public Employment Service. That's the way it should be. Many people get jobs in other ways, and there are several actors who help to achieve a well-functioning labour market. It's not a sign of weakness. It's a force. On the other hand, we need to ensure that many of those who want help from the Employment Service also get it and that it actually leads to a job, not just a parking lot within a labour market policy measure, and not least – which is very important to me – leads to employers being helped to find the right staff. A completely different focus on employers' needs is what we are now changing the authority to. I think it's important to think new. It is not certain that a solution that has worked for a certain period of time will work at a different time, but one must be prepared to be pragmatic in terms of labour market policy. I myself will shortly be travelling to Australia to look at the reforms that have been made there and learn from their experiences. As far as the investigation is concerned, we are currently working on the directives. That work has come quite a long way.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-539	Mr President, I would like to I agree with the Minister's statement that it is not a pity that people get jobs outside the Employment Service. The concern is that so many do not get help at Arbetsförmedlingen. Those who are most affected are those who do not have networks, do not have a CV, do not have contacts into the work but are dependent on having someone to speak for them. This development shows that, while our labour market is strong, it is the groups that have found it difficult to enter the labour market that are even more difficult. Somewhere in this situation there is a huge concern when the authority responsible is not quite able to live up to it. It is not only under the alliance government that confidence in Arbetsförmedlingen has decreased, but it is further back in time. What other countries have stated before us is that with the changing labour market that we have today compared to a few decades ago, it is quite different requirements and quite different ways of working and methods that are needed. There, other countries have chosen to change the systems to meet the changing labour market in a completely different way. I think it is a good thing that the directives are in the pipeline and coming soon. But it is unfortunate that it has been lost for a whole year. The investigation does not need to be opposed to the change work that takes place at Arbetsförmedlingen, but it could well have worked at the same time. When we had Director General Mikael Sjöberg in the Labour Market Committee, his line was that the investigation is good, because there is a lot to learn and pick up even in the change work that is taking place here and now. In previous discussions that I have had with the Minister for Labour, I have highlighted the concern about the closure of many offices. There is a plan to close one third, and most of the time rural and sparsely populated areas, the smaller municipalities, are affected. I would like to hear how Ylva views the closure of employment services.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-543	Mr President, I would like to I welcome a constructive tone from Annika Qarlsson on these issues. Changes are needed now, but we also need to look forward in the long term. We share concerns about how, if the Employment Service disappears from many locations, to ensure that there is good service throughout the country. It goes without saying that you have to change the number of offices and where the offices should be. There is also a great need to increase the digitisation of Arbetsförmedlingen's work, which in many respects is out-of-date compared to many other authorities, where you can get a lot of service without being physically present in an office, which we as citizens generally appreciate very much. However, the Public Employment Service still needs to be physically present to a large extent in order to obtain adequate service. There is therefore considerable development work to be done here. These are also issues that could be considered to be included in an investigation involving services throughout the country. The work on the directives is not yet complete, and this is an issue that I am considering. Let me then just say that it is true that the Employment Service has had problems even before the old government. Nevertheless, it can be noted that what happened under the old government – when the board of directors of the agency found that it did not have confidence in the Director General, who was then fired – was a situation that is not very common in a state authority.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-546	Mr President, I would like to It was interesting to listen to the Minister for Labour. She talks about the major reforms that are now under way. It's trainee jobs, extra welfare services, educational contracts, and so on. Sounds good. But if you think about it, it's a bit of a tragic development that we're in danger of going against. These are more labour market policy measures than real jobs. You raise the cost of hiring. Then I don't understand how the jobs are going to come out. It's a change of policy, tell you the Minister for Labour. But raising taxes, does it create more jobs? No, usually not. The government says that you should arrange training and arrange jobs yourself. Instead of creating the conditions for work and jobs to emerge, the government itself will be creating both training and jobs through various interventions, labour market measures and training contracts. There are many things that we can do that are certainly great, and we sometimes need short-term measures in transition periods for people. But the risk is that it will be the lasting, long-term attitude of the government, and I see that as a major threat. I would also like to put specific questions to the Minister for Labour. These are the same questions I had for the Left Party. What does the Minister for Labour think about phase 3 being phased out? How can people who are currently very vulnerable be given new tasks? How does the Minister for Labour view this of increasing wage support? The third question concerns the Public Employment Service and the investigation, where it goes. These are my three specific questions to the Minister for Labour.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-550	Mr President, I would like to I get a little confused listening to Désirée Pethrus. I think you can go back to the record and see that I haven't talked about the government getting jobs. That's not what I've been saying. On the other hand, when it comes to organising education, this is something that the government is of course funding. The government invests resources so that municipalities and other education providers – but also the state – can conduct education. It is, of course, a public commitment and funding. There are, of course, training courses that are funded in ways other than through tax funds, but the main funding for our education system is, after all, tax funding, and I think that is reasonable. That is why we are dependent on the budget being able to allocate money to training, as we are doing. What makes me a little confused is that Désirée Pethrus now seems concerned that there would be too much labour market policy measures and too little real jobs that are not subsidised. I have recently had quite a lot of discussions in this House that there may be fewer labour market policy measures because the labour market is doing so well, not least for young people. I think so later. The government will probably need to revise the number of labour market policies for young people, precisely because a lot of young people are currently getting jobs in other parts, which is of course positive – it is not an end in itself to being in a labour market policy measure. However, some will continue to need it, especially those with the most vulnerable situations. This applies, for example, to those who lack upper secondary skills. We have other new entrants to the labour market who may be in greater need of this. As regards the ceiling on wage subsidies, I would like to note that during the eight years of the Christian Democrats' membership of the government, the ceiling of wage subsidies was not increased. But now, when you're in opposition, you've got money for this. This is welcome, and there is a great need to raise the ceiling in wage subsidies, but it is also a very expensive reform.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-554	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answers! It is possible that the Minister for Labour did not put it exactly so that it was about arranging jobs. But when you look at the fantastic reform list that the Minister for Labour listed, you can see that trainee jobs and extra services in welfare are the major measures. Then I think: Surely these cannot be the major labour market policy measures that are needed right now. A completely different type of policy is needed to create new jobs. These are completely new sectors, the development of the services sector, the creation of a business sector and the creation of more female entrepreneurs and immigrants as entrepreneurs. All of this is what we would like to hear. But what we hear about are trainee jobs and extra services in welfare. Supplementary welfare services may not be bad in themselves, but they have some displacement effects – that cannot be excluded – from regular jobs, which this should actually provide. It increases employers' contributions, increases taxation on labour and makes it more expensive to hire young people and older people. How can it create more jobs? The chairman of the Labour Committee, Raimo Pärssinen, said before: How can the Moderates only want to reduce taxes? In fact, there is an idea, because it often creates more jobs. Increased taxes do not increase the number of jobs. I would like the Minister to give a concrete answer to how we can find the new jobs. As far as wage subsidies are concerned, we are happy. We from the Christian Democrats have presented our own budget. We have not had to negotiate it with other parties. In that budget, we have proposed 900 million to increase the wage subsidy and wage support, from 16 700 SEK to 19 000 SEK. It would be good if the government went on that line too.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-561	Mr President, I would like to I have previously presented the government's work agenda. It is not in labour market policy that jobs are created. But we can ensure that vacancies are created, and we can equip the unemployed to take the job vacancies. This in turn enables companies to grow. Then the government's investments in housing, infrastructure, climate-smart conversion, not least education, export strategy, innovation and much more are required to drive development forward. Wage subsidies can have evasive effects; that is the case. At the same time, we know that wage support is one of the most effective labour market policies. That is why the government is still investing in it. Given that wage support goes to the right people, the displacement effect is small and the impact is large in terms of entering the labour market. That is why we are also investing in extra services, which is wage support just like wage subsidies and much more. But it's real jobs for contractual wages but with a pay subsidy. Now Désirée Pethrus says that there is an idea of tax cuts. I'm sure it will. The problem for the alliance parties is that there is also clear evidence that the major tax cuts they made in terms of reducing employers' contributions for young people did not work. It was very expensive and had a very small effect. That is why we are now redeploying policies and investing in things that have more proven effect and that actually lead to young people getting into work. Education is such a part that has a proven good effect. Mr President, I would like to I didn't have time to answer the question about phase 3. You can go back and look at the Minutes and see that in my speech I went through quite carefully the various efforts that will be required for the very different people today in phase 3 in order for them to move on to work and education. As far as the AF investigation is concerned, I replied in a previous change of line that the preparation is under way and directives are under way.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-568	Mr President, I would like to As I said, the IMF does not make the same assessment as the Minister for Labour and the Government that you will be able to get the vulnerable groups into employment to a greater extent than at present. On the contrary, they estimate that the proportion of the unemployed belonging to the vulnerable groups will increase from 70% to 75% by the end of next year. This assessment came in November. How does the Minister for Labour view this? Then I have a question about Arbetsförmedlingen. I have had and still have confidence in the Director-General. I think it has been a boost for the Public Employment Service since the change of Director-General. But I'm a little worried about the signals I'm getting. Job coacher calls and tells them that they have been ordered that they should basically only care about new arrivals – no others. A cultural worker from Stockholm – one of Ali Ali's voters who has always voted for the Left Party – called me a week ago and complained that the Swedish Public Employment Service has announced that he absolutely cannot get any help from there. They only have time for new arrivals. This worries me. What signals does it send out in Swedish society, and what frictions does it give in Swedish society? Is this in line with how the government thinks the Employment Service should work?
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-572	Mr President, I would like to Let me first say that in a situation where the labour market is doing very well, there is a high demand for labour and many job vacancies are not filled, it is quite natural that those who have a strong position in the labour market find jobs quite easily. This often means that a larger proportion of those in need of assistance from the Employment Service are those who find it difficult to enter the labour market. Similarly, when there are fewer jobs and a lot of notice, there are usually more people who are close to the labour market who are looking for help from Arbetsförmedlingen. This is linked to the economic cycle and is not very strange. But at this point, it is of course important to make special efforts precisely for those furthest from the labour market. If it is at some point that the long-term unemployed and disabled people are going to enter the labour market, it is now that they are doing well in the labour market and there is a high demand for labour. It is therefore important that labour market policies are sufficiently fast-footed to adapt to cyclical changes. For example, it is now important to provide assistance especially to those who are far removed from the labour market. I believe that Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström is doing a disservice to reality through the way in which he conducts the debate. The two telephone calls he describes are not at all true to reality. Arbetsförmedlingen works with all people and groups of people seeking help through Arbetsförmedlingen. Right now it has a particularly important task to work with those who, for various reasons, are far removed from the labour market, such as the long-term unemployed and people with disabilities – given the economic cycle that makes this very important. Another task of Arbetsförmedlingen is to specifically work with employers and their needs. The image that Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström gives does not match reality.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-577	Mr President, I would like to I do not think that the people I am talking about who are unemployed see themselves as strong in the labour market. Of course, they have the right to receive the same help as everyone else. I think what the Minister for Employment said is rather casual. Then there are not just two three telephone calls, but these are the signals we receive. I can take another example. When we debated integration policy here last week, the Center Party gave a very good example from Åre about how they quickly get immigrants into work, and this with the current government's labour market policy. That sounded great. But what does this mean when you study it a little closer? I have myself worked in Åre on a seasonal basis. Many young people get their first job in Åre – both young people from Jämtland and from the rest of Sweden. That is the step into the labour market. They can work in hotels, shops and restaurants with a little easier work. It's the first job for many young people. What has happened is that, less than two years ago, Åre began to receive a little more refugees and asylum seekers. Now it's entry-level work. That's 80% pay subsidy for these jobs. It is cleaning jobs, restaurant jobs and the like that do not now benefit the young people. They don't get into the labour market. Not only young people of Swedish origin, but all young people in Jämtland and the rest of Sweden are looking for these jobs and are not eligible. It is mainly new arrivals who get these jobs. This is another example of how this targeted labour market policy of the current government is tearing society apart. It's a reaction. I don't like that development. Of course, everyone has the right to the help they need to get into the labour market. There is talk of weak and strong groups. Yes, there are weak and strong groups. However, I do not think that the people I spoke about feel themselves strong in the labour market when they have gone long-term unemployed. In practice, that is the case for many.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-583	Mr President, I would like to It may be that Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström did not understand what I said or that I expressed myself unclear. All unemployed persons have the same right to receive assistance from the Employment Service, regardless of whether they have a strong or weak position in the labour market. Of course, if you are in a weaker position, you may need more money than if you are in a stronger position. However, anyone who is unemployed has the right to receive help from Arbetsförmedlingen. That is the policy that the government has changed to and we are now pursuing. I received a question from Sällström about the proportion called vulnerable groups. It was Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström who himself used the concept of vulnerable groups and that they as a proportion of those who are enrolled at Arbetsförmedlingen will increase. That is when I replied that, in a context of a strong labour market, it is natural that the proportion belonging to vulnerable groups who need support from the Public Employment Service will increase. It was not a valuation of who has the right to receive support. Everyone has the right to receive support. That entry-level jobs would push away other jobs is not true. That's not true, and that's not what it looks like. On the contrary, there was a report from the Swedish National Audit Office not so long ago that presented a review of the entry-level jobs. It was noted in the report that there were other jobs that pushed the entry-level jobs away, such as the use of new start-up jobs to a much greater extent than entry-level jobs despite the fact that it had been more effective. According to the Swedish National Audit Office's review, it is in fact the opposite.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-587	Mr President, I would like to I was going to talk about some of our areas of responsibility included in the budget, and that is the work environment. It is an important part of a good working life. Of course, it should be obvious to feel safe at work and enjoy your work, and most people do. Sweden's working life may be the best in the world when we compare internationally, as well as our working environment. Workplaces have become much safer, and accidents are fewer even though many more are working. Work-related diseases are no longer as threatening. It is gratifying that there are fewer and fewer work-related deaths, and we seem to be moving towards a new record year this year. But every death is always one too many, and there's a bit left to zero vision. In the years of the Alliance, the number of deaths was largely halved. This is a very positive development, as the Swedish Work Environment Authority's statistics show. However, when it comes to stress and psychosocial factors, there are areas where there is much left to work with. It is worrying that the onset of illness due to mental disorders is increasing in particular among women. Eighty per cent of the women on sick leave work in the public sector, and the worst is in home care, care for the elderly and health care. The Union was alarmed today that we are seeing the worst psychosocial time ever, and we wonder what the government is doing about this. The increase in sick leave is serious. We can see that during the time of the Alliance there was a very high tone around the working environment from the red-green. The Social Democrats then proposed that 100 million extra should be added to the Swedish Work Environment Authority, and now that they are in government, we can see that the amount has shrunk considerably – by almost half – and that it has quieted down substantially on the issues of the working environment. Mr President, I would like to I would also like to mention something about long-term unemployment, which is increasing. A long-term unemployed person is a person who has been unemployed for more than six months. This is where the growth is greatest among the elderly and foreign-born. In October, one third of the unemployed were long-term unemployed. This figure tends to increase with the large number of new arrivals, and we should remember that half of those in the start-up assignment lack upper secondary skills. So it is a major challenge. An increasing proportion of the unemployed are born abroad. It is remarkable that the government is not doing any more. How will this development be halted? There is talk of fast track for new arrivals, but it really only applies to the small group that has a good education and has had a job in their home countries. We can see that Sweden has the EU's lowest share of simple jobs. We can also say that we have the highest entry wages and that we have a growing share of new arrivals without training. What does the government intend to do about this? It is a challenge that does not shrink, but rather grows. During the eight years of the Alliance's power, 300 000 new jobs were created despite a long economic crisis. It was thanks to the reforms we carried out: RUT, ROT and reduced VAT in the restaurant business. There were some other things, too. To break the new exclusion, we need even more measures and new reforms, but we have not seen them. People must be educated, sometimes from the ground up. The government talks a lot about education. It's great– I think it's needed, and so can we – but where is the real job policy? For example, the Moderates propose vocational adult education and training, and it needs to be made much more accessible to many more by also introducing a right to komvux. We also say that the roads to the first job must be made wider, and as part of that we want to introduce a first-job employment for young and newcomers and a first-job tax deduction that makes it much more profitable for those with low incomes to start working. The role of employment services as well as complementary actors is important in this work. Here the government lacks proposals for a more efficient employment agency or anything else that can lead to jobs. We hear a lot about what is to come and what you want to do, but we have not yet seen a single proposal despite the fact that it is just over a year since the government took office. In fact, it is sad that the current government has not managed to agree on a strong effort at work but, on the contrary, makes it more difficult to find new jobs by raising taxes and contributions and doing worse in RUT and ROT, where very many have actually got their first job. The future therefore looks rather bleak, even though today we have heard a very satisfied Minister for Labour. It is thanks to an alliance budget that has existed for nine years in Sweden. A new budget is now coming up with 30 billion in tax increases. This feels very tough. Let's hope it doesn't sound as bleak in a year as we think it might be. I would therefore like to thank you for your cooperation and wish everyone a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-598	Mr President, I would like to Katarina Brännström says many different things here, and it is not always clear how they are connected. I am thinking of the introduction to the work environment and the situation there, which is commendable. I wonder how it relates to Katarina Brännström's and Moderates' view of labour market conditions. There are many times ideas from the Moderates about what the labour market really looks like and what gives impetus to one or the other. However, there are also some facts that exist about the labour market, including the fact that one thing that stresses many people of different ages is the precarious employment conditions they have. It is about different types of fixed-term contracts that are very uncertain and where you do not know from day to day how the economy should go together. It's very stressful. It is also clear to those working on health and safety at work that those who do not have safe conditions on the labour market will find it much more difficult to say whether the working environment is poor. The systematic work environment work becomes much more difficult in workplaces where employees do not know from day to day whether they have the job left or what happens to their hours, for example, if they say something is wrong. Looking at the Moderates' proposal, I have always understood that it is a type of working conditions that are endorsed. How does Katarina Brännström view it?
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-601	Mr President, I would like to We think that the working environment is very important. It is an important part of the work line we have been arguing for eight years. If you like it and want to stay at your job, everyone benefits from it, both employers and employees, and that is economically beneficial. When it comes to precarious employment, one can always discuss whether it is more uncertain to be unemployed than to have a fixed-term employment contract valid for one or two years. It may also mean that you actually get that permanent job. So I do not think that this affects much or that you would be more afraid when you are on a fixed-term contract. There are such rules in our regulations, and I think most people who are in the union know where to turn if they feel an uncertainty or a concern at their job. We should be pleased that the accidents at work in the construction sector, which is a subject we have discussed a great deal in this House with regard to health and safety at work, fell by 10% last year. We can also see that the number of deaths has fallen, and that is very gratifying. Even among foreign workers, which was also a concern we mentioned, accidents have gone down. So we now see that the long-term and preventive work environment work we have talked about a lot has actually had a good effect. So I think we should be satisfied and happy that the development is so positive. Then there are certainly places where the work environment can be much better, and there you should put a lot of gunpowder for example from the Swedish Work Environment Authority's side. That is something we have said, that is, to put the gunpowder where it is most needed.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-605	Mr President, I would like to It is good if the Swedish Work Environment Authority can carry out more inspections, which you will have the opportunity to do when the new government is now providing funds to the Swedish Work Environment Authority that the previous government, which Katarina Brännström supported, cut down on. But I don't think it helps the people who experience poor work environment and difficulties to say that Kristina Brännström thinks that the work environment is important. It is a good start in itself. But when it comes to fixed-term employment, for example, there can be very great uncertainty about whether you can come back or not. It is in the nature of the matter that if you are to carry out systematic work environment work, it must be precisely systematic and it must be made more difficult if very many of those who are in a workplace are not systematically present. It seems relatively obvious that this is the way it is, one might think. Then it is great that it has been a positive development for many periods when it comes to accidents. A very clear basis for this is the systematic work that has been done in industry. Strong trade unions, together with serious employers, have ensured that the risks of accidents are systematically eliminated. Workers' input has been taken seriously and it has been ensured that concrete measures are taken in the workplace. This, of course, will be done much less in areas where workers are weaker organised or where they are not even in the workplace over time. That should be clear, and I think that everyone who works with health and safety at work needs to take this more seriously in the future.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-608	Mr President, I would like to I think it would be better if we discussed the places where work-related diseases are increasing, and it is in municipalities and county councils where mostly women work. That's really bad. We must put a great deal of effort into it, and then we can see that it is an area in which politicians have the ultimate responsibility. The fact that insecure employment is the major villain in the drama is, I think, considerably exaggerated. On the other hand, we need to take seriously the stress and pressure in the public sector, in care for the elderly and in home care. There's minutes that count. There is tremendous stress and little influence over one's own work. I think that we politicians at all levels have an important task here. I think most employers are good employers. When you hire someone on a fixed term, you do it because you have a reason for it. Perhaps you only need staff at a certain peak. You may only need staff for a certain season or certain days a week, for example in the restaurant business or in shops. It is not a choice, but perhaps it is necessary to have people employed in that way. And I think the satisfaction many times can be just as great for it. Then we shall have effective inspections. It's really important. And then the gunpowder will be placed where it is at its worst. The Swedish Work Environment Authority has now turned its operations around to find the environments, industries and employers where it does not work well. I think that is a really good rating for both the Swedish Work Environment Authority and the work that the Alliance Government started with information and prevention so that accidents do not happen. Let us hope that this work continues. At least I believe it.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-613	Mr President, I would like to I will explain Sweden's views on health and safety at work – issues that are close to my heart when I have worked as a safety representative in the construction sector for many years. What distinguishes a good working environment is that it ultimately benefits virtually all parties. This benefits the employee who avoids problems such as wear and tear and stress-related diseases, but it also benefits the company that gets healthier employees who contribute to increased production, which in principle benefits the whole country and welfare. The Swedish Democrats want to see an increased level of ambition when it comes to work on health and safety at work. We therefore welcome the fact that the Government is increasing the grant to the Swedish Work Environment Authority, as we do in our own budget, so that more checks can be made and prevention can increase. Companies also have a great responsibility in terms of health and safety at work. Then we see SAM, systematic work environment work, as the right way to go. We want to encourage the work with SAM through three important positions: Clear information and information to companies about what applies, more inspections by the Swedish Work Environment Agency and a clarification that SAM is a regulation that all entrepreneurs must comply with. There is a great deal of carelessness about this today. That's a very low percentage. It can be much better. There is a company in Karlskrona called ABB that has a hugely developed work. I would have liked us in committee to have been able to go there and visit the company to look at their work, because they are doing a great job on these issues. I've been working there for ten years. Of course, we choose to earmark investments in more SAM inspections as well as investments in information provision to all Swedish companies. We also want to invest in setting up a targeted health and safety contribution to companies that can contribute to staff health. This is a grant that companies can apply for. The role of the safety officer in the workplace is extremely important. I know that from my own experience. If there are no safety representatives organized, it is sloppy in the workplace. That's how it is, I'm afraid. That is why we choose to restore state aid to training safety representatives in order to return to the levels we had before the alliance government took office. Mr President, I would like to There is one thing that we Swedish democrats are rather concerned about, and it is the European Commission's proposal for a strategy on common health and safety rules, which we see as a proposal that would clearly impair Swedish employees. For us Swedish democrats, this is an issue from which the EU should keep its fingers off. Swedish workplaces and employees are subject to national rules and laws. The EU's negative impact on health and safety at work and a little lax attitude to health and safety at work will always be questioned, because it does not belong in the Swedish labour market. That is why it is particularly gratifying that we are seeing how the voters are also taking on board these issues. We see that our support is growing from the labour movement. We see how we work to prioritise welfare and conditions for Swedish employees. We can see that quite clearly now that the Swedish Democrats are truly consolidating the role of the largest party within the LO collective.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-623	Mr President, I would like to I'd like to say a little bit insolently that there are empty barrels scrambling up here. The strange thing about Magnus Persson is that he stands here and says that there are huge investments that he wants to make at the Swedish Work Environment Authority and other things, while he has sat in the Chamber and pressed a button to remove 65 million SEK from the Swedish Work Environment Authority. It's very strange! Now he stands here and tries to portray himself as the great gift giver of welfare, when we know that the Swedish Democrats in their budget will reduce 90 billion on welfare in the future. This, Mr President, seems to me to be a little startling. I don't understand how Magnus Persson gets it together. What button is he going to press now?
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-627	Mr President, I would like to Raimo Pärssinen knows very well how our budget is designed. It is a question of reading the whole draft budget. I have had this debate many times with Raimo Pärssinen and other Members of this House, not just you. Take part of the entire budget! Read not only the first page but also the last page! Then you'll see how the budget goes together. I understand that Raimo Pärssinen has difficulty with budgetary issues, because he is behind a government budget that has fallen. I see it as a much bigger problem than this.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-630	Mr President, I would like to Magnus Persson pressed the button so that the Moderates' budget would apply. That means 65 million less. How's that going with more inspectors? How does it go with better support for safety representatives and training courses? Magnus Persson is standing here and says that he is an old safety representative and really defends this. Did he just press the wrong button?
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-632	Mr President, I would like to Had not Raimo Pärssinen's party leader ignoredly slammed the door in the face of the Swedish Democrats, we would certainly have been able to find a conciliation on the previous budget. But the Social Democrats did not want to discuss it, and then we chose to look at the whole budget. You know this very well, Raimo Pärssinen, so you don't have to sit on any high horses. You know very well what it was about, don't you? That is why we had to look at the whole budget and chose to vote in that way. But as I said, if your party leader had not closed the door to the Swedish Democrats in an arrogant way, but had been prepared to discuss the issues, the outcome might have been different. We were prepared to discuss other things than immigration policy, but you certainly did not want to.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-635	Mr President, I would like to Much has been said in the debate about how well Sweden is doing, and we are grateful for that. There are many things that are positive in Sweden. We're getting healthier and we're living longer and longer. At the same time, however, the retirement age has not changed for many years, and young people are entering the labour market ever later. In addition, people are away from the labour market for a large part of their lives because of parental leave, sick leave or part-time work. Half of all jobs risk disappearing by 2030 through automation. This creates major challenges for the labour market. Strong reforms are needed to create new jobs in Sweden. Reforms are needed to ensure that we have a longer working life and that fewer and fewer people do not pay for more and more people. We need to make it easier for people to dare to change jobs and to change jobs in the middle of life. It is becoming increasingly crucial to increase labour market mobility so that more people will be able to work longer. We also need an increased focus on health in order to reduce the mental illness that is increasing significantly. As Katarina Brännström mentioned, the Union has today released a report on this. It points out that mental illness is a greater problem than physical illness. Part of the explanation lies in digitalisation. It takes work home to a greater extent, which means that the difference between work and leisure time is greatly reduced. Digitalisation and automation will radically change the labour market. Meeting this challenge requires better conditions for job creators. The Center Party has therefore presented a job creation budget with reforms to create more new jobs and a more mobile labour market. People will need to change their workplace and profession more often later in life. It requires reforms for strengthening skills, for lifelong learning and for the retraining of adults. Mr President, I would like to Today, every fourth person at his place of work is unhappy. This is shown by a study from Stockholm University. Although so many people are unhappy at their workplace, the study shows that they still do not choose to change workplaces. This is worrying and is largely based on the lock-in effects of current labour law on the Swedish labour market. People do not dare to change workplaces when they feel uncomfortable or when they want to try something new. If you change jobs, you end up in the new workplace and become the first to go if the company has to quit people. Even if you have the highest level of competence and long professional experience, you can go first because of the rules of the tour. With changed rotation rules, we would have increased labour market mobility. This would benefit both those who want to change jobs and those who are far from the labour market and find it difficult to enter, especially young people and people from foreign backgrounds. In order for us to get more people into the labour market and for people to be able to work longer, we need to improve the opportunity to change jobs and to retrain in the middle of life. There is also a need for greater focus on health-promoting work environment measures so that more people can cope, want and work longer. These are some of the proposals put forward by the Center Party in its budget.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-650	Mr President, I would like to This applies, as I said, to the report of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs 2. Labour market policy is an area which we Social Democrats think is extremely important. Looking around this House, it is clear that the bourgeois members of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs do not directly give priority to labour market policy, and that is nothing new either for us social democrats or for the Swedish people. Mr President, I would like to I will make this speech anyway, and I will give it a little bit on the occasion of the day we have today. 10 December is an important day. So today we are going to take decisions on AU2, and labour market policy is now taking a number of steps forward. We are taking steps forward for companies, which under the previous government have been severely affected by the lack of investment in skills provision. This has meant that 80 000 jobs per year have not been filled because workers have not been found who have had the right training and experience to take them. It is an important day for the employees because we are now getting a labour market policy that highlights the work environment and working life issues at the top and is again starting to work on these issues. It is an important day for all of us who think that order and order in the labour market are important. We have a government that takes a stand for the Swedish labour market model and for Swedish collective agreements to apply at Swedish workplaces. It is an important day for the unemployed, who, with the decisions we are now making with today's report, have an opportunity to get into work more quickly. It is also about the decisions that we have taken in the previous spring amending budget to restore the economic conditions in the unemployment fund so that, in addition to unemployment, an unemployed person does not also have to suffer poverty. That is why, Mr President, I would like to make this speech in the light of 10 December. 10 December is also an important day for another reason. Today we celebrate with the parties down at Stadshuset in Stockholm. It is a party that puts Sweden on the map, Mr President. It's a party that makes us Swedes proud. Everyone is there: the royal family, the government, all party leaders... or possibly not all party leaders. There's one missing. The Nobel Foundation has explained why the missing party leader is not invited to the Nobel Festival. This is important, Mr President, because Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström of the Swedish Democrats is today calling for the approval of reservation 1 in the report. The report deals with the Swedish Democrats' motion 2239. The Swedish Democrats use almost all the space in their motion to explain that they do not have their roots in Nazism and that their policy is not based on Nazi ideology. This is quite remarkable, Mr President. We Social Democrats, who pay tribute to labour market policy and think it is an important area, are a little surprised to use their labour market policy exercise to explain that they have nothing to do with Nazi ideology. Of course: If someone constantly says that he or she is not a Nazi, you can possibly start to wonder if it might be hiding something. Is there anything else that he or she really wants to say? This is symptomatic of how the Swedish democrats view labour market policy. They are really completely uninterested in it. You can discover this when you read motion 2239, but also when you see how the Swedish Democrats take a stand in this Chamber. They say that they are in favour of improved unemployment insurance. They say that they want investments in the working environment. However, when we in this House are to take a position, we vote instead on the Moderates' budget. Instead of the deterioration of the working environment, more disorder in the Swedish labour market and worse unemployment insurance funds, we vote, and so we hit the unemployed right in the face. It is extremely important, Mr President, to lift up here today. Not only do we have the total disinterest of bourgeois politicians in the question, but we also have a party which is actually playing false games. They say one thing in the debate and one thing in the streets and squares, and then they do something quite different here in the Swedish Parliament. Of this, Mr President, let us tell you. Let us tell you about this so that people actually see what representatives they have sent to this House. I intend, Mr President, to continue to tell you in this House and wherever I am about which party is here on the other side of the Chamber and how they act. The Swedish Democrats are not only a party that has its roots in Nazism, but also an anti-employee right-wing party. It is extremely clear on a day like this, 10 December. It is clear in here in the Swedish Parliament, and it is clear at the celebrations, the Nobel Festival, in the City Hall. We will now remember this on 10 December 2015. I therefore call for reservations to be rejected, including motion 2239, Mr President, and naturally I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-665	Mr President, I would like to I have met Patrik Björck here in the speaker's chair a number of times. He never has anything new to add to the debate, but his political mandate seems to be based on attacking the Swedish Democrats. You're welcome. It doesn't matter to me. I'd love to take it. Patrik Björck points out that my party leader has not been invited to the Nobel Festival. Sure, you can regret that. But Patrik Björck says nothing about sister parties and mass murderers being invited to the Nobel Festival. These are parties that Patrik Björck's party supports, gives money to and cooperates with. Patrik Björck has nothing to say about that. When it comes to playing racist cards and such things, I would like to say that it is Patrik Björck and his party's representatives in this Parliament who are the racists, at least according to Patrik Björck's party's own youth federation. They have gone out and said clearly that their MPs are pursuing a racist policy in the Swedish Parliament that they do not support. What is it really like, Patrik Björck, with racism within the Social Democracy? How it was in the 1930s and 1940s we know, when Hitler's executioners learned racial biology and the like from Swedish Social Democrats. But what about racism and Nazism in your party, Patrik Björck? You represent racism here in Parliament according to your own youth association.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-669	Mr President, I would like to Now Magnus Persson apparently means that questionable people would be invited to the city hall party and that it would be a reason to also invite Magnus Persson's party leader. Of course, that is how you can reason. Then Magnus Persson sets the bar, and we get quite close together in the assessment of Magnus Persson's party leader. Apart from that, of course, Mr President, I would not have raised this issue in today's debate on the AU2 report of the Committee on Employment if Magnus Persson had not devoted almost all of his motion to discussing where his party stands ideologically. There is almost nothing here about the working environment or the labour market, but it says a lot about where the Swedish Democrats stand ideologically. This obsession at constantly trying to put some new, different label on itself and constantly wash his shirt and believe it will become whiter because every time you wash it it makes it actually Magnus Persson, Mr President, who invites this debate year after year. It is no wonder that I am actually debating what Magnus Persson wants to debate. I think, Mr President, that the debate should be taken with a party in Parliament, and I think that this debate should be conducted on the basis of the motions put on the table by the party. Magnus Persson will accept that as long as he writes this type of exercise, he will also receive this type of answer. The Swedish Democrats are a party that has its roots in racism. We're not getting away from that. The Swedish Democrats are a party that deceives voters. We're not getting away from that. One thing is said in streets and squares, and another thing is done in this Chamber. Of course, for democratic reasons, we must inform the Swedish people about this.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-675	Mr President, I would like to Now it's Christmas, and I think Patrik Björck is starting to remind of the woodpecker in Kalle Anka. It is not new, it is the same chewing debate after debate. I understand that Patrik Björck is concerned, because he is concerned about his work. Now the electorate of the LO collective has finally woken up and seen that there is a party that really works for them in the Swedish parliament, a party that sees them as workers and as citizens. We don't just see them as voting cattle and electrifying cattle, as Patrik Björck and his tradesmen within the LO leadership see them as. That time is over, Patrik Björck. I look forward to the day when we see a Swedish Democrat as Chairman of the LO, because it will come soon enough.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-678	Mr President, I would like to Now I think that Magnus Persson and his party are Swedish employees and workers the answer is guilty. If you now think that these issues we are discussing today are so important, why don't you spend some time with them in your exercise? If you now think that it is so important to improve the working environment, order and order of the labour market, that we get all the problems that have arisen in connection with the Laval judgment and that Swedish collective agreements do not exist on the Swedish labour market and that it is important that those affected by unemployment do not also suffer poverty, why does Magnus Persson vote every time he has an opportunity for an entirely opposite policy? You can lie once, and you can lie twice. But you can't always lie, all the time, and to everyone. Sooner or later it will catch up with Magnus Persson and his party. If you think that the working environment is an important issue, if you think that Swedish collective agreements in the Swedish labour market are an important issue and if you think that the unemployed should not also suffer from poverty, you should not vote for the Swedish Democrats.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-681	Mr President, I would like to Free years simply mean that a person in employment changes places with an unemployed person for a period of time. In Sweden, on the initiative of the Green Party, from 2005 until the then government removed the possibility in 2007, a number of employees could take three to twelve months off while an unemployed substitute for them. The person on leave received a benefit equal to 85 per cent of the allowance that he would have received as an unemployed person, and the substitute received regular pay. The free-time reform was a combined freedom reform and labour market reform. The interest was great, and far from everyone who applied for a free year got it. There are several reasons to reintroduce the free year. It's something as rare as a true win-win solution. Free-timers gain increased power over their lives and a chance to free up their creativity and gather new forces. The long-term unemployed, who are on leave, gain valuable work experience and thus a stronger position on the labour market. Moreover, since the free-year-olds provide pay and proper work, they provide dignity and the opportunity to make a living, unlike many other less meaningful and sometimes demeaning activities that too many unemployed have later been forced into. Finland has good experience of alternation leave, the Finnish equivalent of a free year. Alternation leave was introduced in 1996, and since 2010 it has been permanent. Over 200 000 people have taken advantage of this opportunity. An evaluation of the 2009 alternation leave found that the employment rate and pay of those who had had to change leave increased. And the effect persisted after several years. Both in Finland and Sweden, those given leave reported that their well-being had increased. However, they did not work anymore and did not have lower sick leave after the leave. Some have seen it as an argument against the free year. In my opinion, this approach expresses a narrow and poor view of human beings and an outmoded and narrow view of work and working life. Those on free-year leave may have given priority to other things in life than maximising pay, time at work, increased consumption and material standards. If so, they are examples for all of us. If we are to manage to stem climate change and the depletion of natural resources, we must find ways away from excessive wage labour and the environmental overloading overconsumption that it allows. In addition, research shows that people with less materialistic values feel better than others. They are simply more satisfied and happy. The profits and benefits of the free-year cannot be measured in monetary terms alone. The free year was a human success under all circumstances. Mr President, I would like to Freedoms could help prevent exclusion and ill-health by offering people a break when they need it, before becoming ill and eliminated. The free year could give those who are unhappy at work a chance to do something else for some time. The free year can also create better conditions for those who want to develop an invention or try out a business idea. It is simply the livelihood of innovators and entrepreneurs that we both need. Today is a big problem. Of course, the free-year does not solve all the problems, as little as any other individual measure. However, as I have mentioned, this could help to meet several important objectives, not least in the labour market area and be of great benefit to individuals as well as to society. It is therefore a pity that the committee rejects without justification the motion that I, along with several other Green Members, have written about re-establishing the free year. We would need a factual and constructive debate on all the good proposals and also dare to think beyond a rigid working line. The free year also has a different dimension, in addition to immediate social benefits. It increases the scope for things that are not so-called profitable but indispensable in a good society and a living democracy. It may be to engage in culture, association life, to live environmentally friendly lives and, as I mentioned earlier, to try out business ideas. The free year is a much-needed, if not necessary, crime with the increasingly strong and very dangerous tendency to define a person's value based on his position in the labour market. Now it is only a few lucky people with understanding employers and very good private finances who take time off from work without demands. Those who are not fortunate enough to fall back on some other livelihood – capital, inheritance, lottery profits, a partner who earns a lot of money and wants to support you – lack that opportunity. But a free-year system would give more people a chance. Mr President, I would like to The holiday is a unique quality of life reform because the leave is unconditional. A free-year leave is by definition free. He has real power over his life, albeit for a limited time. Perhaps that's why the free year awakened and aroused such strong feelings. Those who got a break from working life during the short period of the free year were an opportunity in Sweden, as were the unemployed who got a free-year visa, were very satisfied. This also applies to those who have been on alternate leave in Finland. But the free-year met and still faces a deeply emotional and against the background of the benefits that it has proven to bring, for both vicaries and vacant, irrational resistance. It is about fundamental values, human views and what society we want. Do we dare to trust each other? Are we granting each other freedom? I hope we can get there. We all have much to gain from a society based on trust, generosity and freedom instead of suspicion, misgivings and control.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-694	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin my speech by telling you how I am here. I'm here largely because of my grandparents' stories that I've had to share. They were both born in Blekinge, in poor families. My grandmother was born into a family that mainly worked in a brick factory. It was actually a tile factory. My grandfather came from a family that was a stone mason. During the 1930s they worked with emergency work. When you didn't have money – usually you didn't – you worked for big farmers and others to make a living at all. My grandfather was lucky. One day he found out that painting apprentices were needed in Karlskrona. He grew up in Asarum in central Blekinge, in the northern part of Karlshamn. He became an apprentice in Karlskrona. It was also where he met my grandmother a little later. After a while he became a painter and got a job at the shipyard in Karlskrona. There he stayed for the rest of his life and enjoyed an incredible amount of work, companionship and professional pride among the workers in the yard. But my grandfather was exposed to terrible things that would cost both his and many of his colleagues' lives, it turned out. He was exposed to asbestos. He was one of many painters who were involved in sealing and painting spaces in boats, submarines and other areas of the yard. He was one of all those who had cancer and eventually died. My grandfather, however, was the one of the colleagues who survived the longest. The others soon died after being subjected to this, as on a string of pearls. Working environment is therefore a sensitive issue for me. It's actually about life and death. That is why I take the discussion we are having here today seriously. It's incredibly important. It really makes a difference to people. I am very proud to talk about the health and safety policy that the government is now pursuing. There are major investments, not least at the Swedish Work Environment Authority. It can also be a question of prevention. Health and safety inspectors can come out and discover such things as asbestos in advance. In fact, it has been done at Karlskrona Shipyard in recent times. There were still residues of asbestos in that workplace last year. We spend a lot of money on this. There's a big difference between the Moderates, which are going down by 65 million. Instead, we will invest a total of SEK 60 million until 2017. This year, 60 new inspectors will be employed at the Swedish Work Environment Authority. Next year, 50 new employees will be employed. That's very good. It will also change the ability to work preventively. We are also investing money in the Regional Safety Officers. Even workplaces that do not have safety representatives have the opportunity to get protection. We already spent 9 million in the spring. We're betting more money now. A total of 10 million will be invested in it in the coming years. We're spending money on working life research. It shows a big difference between us and the previous government. Now we're betting 10 million. There will be a total of 20 million in the future. We also invest in having a work environment strategy. We therefore have a comprehensive health and safety policy for the coming years in Sweden. We also describe that we want a national centre for working life research. The organisation of work is in many ways the foundation of the work environment. I am proud of the government's and not least the Social Democrats' and the Green Party's health and safety policy. But there are things that concern me. Perhaps it does not come as a flash from the clear sky that the Swedish Democrats are worrying me. Sweden's democrats' health and safety policy, in this case in particular Magnus Persson's statement today, and double standards are distressing. These questions are real, as I described at the beginning of my speech. The Swedish Democrats are investing in the Swedish labour market model with one hand and pulling away the foundation of the Swedish labour market model and the working environment with the other hand. I would like to compare it with a red two-storey villa somewhere in Sweden. Magnus Persson stands outside the villa and paints it with his proposals on health and safety policy and some other things that should seem good. At the same time, his party partner, Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström, has snuck in and is inside the villa. He's got a sledgehammer and he's breaking the structure of the house. He uses a percussion drill to try to destroy the carrying walls. While Magnus Persson is in some way trying to confuse us who sees this from the outside – the Swedish model for which he speaks hotly – his companion is on the other side and smashes the whole foundation. This is the policy of the Swedish Democrats. On the one hand they say that the working environment is important, on the other hand they try to destroy the Swedish model by, for example, destroying the unemployment fund and pushing it away from the trade unions' ability to have an influence over it. It is the whole basis of the Swedish model that the union has influence over the unemployment fund in order to have a stable labour market in Sweden. The Swedish Democrats also hit other parts very hard when it comes to the security of those who work. In LAS, in particular, there are several exceptions. It is an extremely hard blow with the sledgehammer against the Swedish model. This does not add up for the Swedish Democrats. You talk with a split tongue. I would like to ask both Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström and Magnus Persson a question and have an answer to why the Swedish Democrats want to destroy the Swedish model in the labour market. It's interesting for me to know, because it has consequences for people for real.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-711	Mr President, I would like to Today you're popular. I never think anyone has said Magnus Persson so many times in this Chamber as this evening. I do not really understand what Magnus Manhammar means by that we are opposed to the Swedish model. Sure, we want to make exceptions in the order of business. We want to increase the exceptions from three to five in order to meet companies' interest in having trained staff that companies may have invested a lot of money in training. It is about winning or disappearing for companies to be able to keep these people. I do not think it is to destroy LAS and increase the exceptions. It's not about us wanting to tear up LAS. No Swedish democrat has claimed that. It is quite fun when you read your bets on various things in the area of work environment. These proposals look exactly the same as those in the Swedish Democrats' budget. They were also included in our budget from last year. I think it's great that you choose to copy our proposals. I see that as a success for us. Too bad we didn't get along at last year's budget debate. I'm sure you'd have got it through much sooner. But you didn't want to. I think the beginning of your speech was quite moving. I understand how your grandfather felt. I have worked as a safety representative and visited many workplaces where things have gone terribly. I've been around scraping workmates off the floor. I've been to workmates' funerals. So I don't think you should stand and hypocritically say that I don't care about the Swedish working environment. You don't know anything about that, because I have much longer work experience than you have and will ever have. Magnus Manhammar is a political broiler who sits in the Chamber for one thing, to campaign against the Swedish Democrats. But what it looks like in real life, Magnus Manhammar doesn't know that.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-716	Mr President, I would like to I am here because I believe in a policy that really makes a difference to people, and not to pursue a hateful policy that destroys this country. I am very proud of it, and I will continue to do so, whether I discuss it with Swedish democrats, Moderates or anyone else. When it comes to LAS and the exceptions to the rotation rules that the Swedish democrats want to make, it is about power in the labour market. It is clear that the Swedish Democrats do not side with the workers. They're on the employer's side. The fact that you say you are a workers' party is an insult. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats obviously have the same proposal as us. I'm sure they copied us. We've been around a lot longer than them, otherwise there wouldn't even be any welfare in this country. After all, you have to look at history. The red two-storey villa that I talked about where Magnus Persson stands outside painting. You will remember that his party partner is on the inside and is destroying the foundation. The difference with what is now happening is that next week Magnus Persson will vote against the budget that we have proposed. He will vote for 65 million less for the working environment, because he votes for the Moderates' budget options. Not only is Magnus Persson painting on the house, but Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström has brought his group of friends with moderates who also stand with the sledgehammer and are destroying the Swedish model. You are cooperating on this. That, if anything, is shameful. That is the reality and what the voters need to know. What will be the consequences if the Swedish Democrats sit in Parliament? Well, you will choose to vote for the Moderates' budget. There will be major consequences, namely the deterioration of the working environment in this country if that budget goes through.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-722	Mr President, I would like to I want to get back to the Laval judgment. To my knowledge, there is only one party in this House that has really fought on this issue for Swedish workers. We are the only party to fight against the domination of the European Union. The Social Democrats say one thing, but when they come to Brussels they do another thing, because they want to sit at the meat pot. Then we can continue to discuss how we Swedish democrats will vote on the budget issue. You obviously know how to vote, but you don't know that. For me, the whole thing is important. The problem with the Social Democrats is that you only read the front page. You're not looking at the whole proposal. I would like an answer from Magnus Manhammar. When will the Social Democrats really stand for Swedish labour law in relation to the EU's influence? When are you going to stand up for what you promised before the elections, before you let the Green Party set the agenda? Both Löfven and Thorwaldsson said that we should have a Swedish labour market test of the workforce to Sweden. I was standing with your comrades in Building in Karlskrona. We took each other in the fist and agreed on this issue. That was before you made a deal with the Green Party, and that was no longer the case. So I wonder: What are you going to say to all Swedish construction workers who are now affected by this because you let the Green Party control the agenda? We can go to ABB in Karlskrona and talk to the construction workers there. What answer do you have to them? I have an answer for them, but do you?
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-727	Mr President, I would like to That's a good question. I myself had the ten-point program with me in my inner pocket during the whole election movement when I met friends at various construction sites and people who were worried about what happened in Sweden. We went to elections to implement the ten-point programme. Soon we will be coming back to this House and ticking off a number of points that we have already implemented. As far as posting is concerned, we are well on the way to even bringing Europe on that line. There are more countries than Sweden that see the major problems with wage dumping that is taking place across Europe. A health and safety problem that is not often highlighted is the health and safety problems that arise because the Swedish Democrats are pursuing a hateful policy against Muslims and against Roma. There are Swedish democrats who say that Jews do not belong to the Swedish nation. It is a very serious policy which in itself is a problem for this country. It is also a policy that leads to more hate crimes. From the hate crime statistics in Sweden, it appears that hate crime increases approximately as much as the Swedish Democrats increase in strength. I wonder if you can link bullying, abusive discrimination and what happens in the workplace to the hate policy that the Swedish democrats pursue. I am quite convinced that there are direct consequences of the hate policies of the Swedish Democrats and what is happening in the workplace. Why do the Swedish Democrats not have a real labour market policy? I think it is because the Swedish Democrats as a party are actually a problem for the working environment.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-732	Mr President, I would like to I want to talk about disability and labour market accessibility. Since the budget has been up and all the bourgeois parties and the Swedish Democrats have talked about how important it is to invest in the expenditure area, I would like to point out that the Christian Democrats have 3.8 billion less in this area, the Center Party has 8.5 billion less, the Liberals have 9.7 billion less and the Moderates and Sweden Democrats have 5.9 billion less. The reason why the Swedish Democrats have less money in this area is because last week they voted for the Moderates' budgetary framework. So they have reserved for moderate politics in this area, and we should not forget that. Today, 71,000 people with disabilities are enrolled in the Employment Service as unemployed. This is a decrease of 2,700 people compared to 2014. Nearly two out of three people leaving unemployment go to work with support. Last week on International Disability Day, A Day for All, I visited the Disability Association's seminar where researchers and other experts participated. From Örebro University it was reported that Sweden has a higher employment rate compared to the rest of the EU in the group with disabilities. That is a good thing, but of course that is not enough. We can and must be much better than we are today. A clear contribution from the Disability Associations was that today's society is badly designed, or as they put it: we need a universal design that allows everyone to gain access. Today, there are quite a few workplaces that exclude people with disabilities due to lack of accessibility. This can range from the lack of ramp – such as here – and narrow doorways to not being offered the tools needed to perform a job. But it may also be other parts of society that make it impossible to get to work or study, such as lack of communication or lack of enough hours of assistance. The organisation DHR points out that the labour market must become more inclusive and that people with disabilities should have good opportunities to start and run businesses. That can also be supported. The organisation Equal Unique, a federation and partner organisation with six national federations from the Swedish disability movement, engages in political issues and wants to influence politics. They think that we elected representatives should ensure that public employers really become role models in hiring people with disabilities in their activities. They also think that procurement should be used to boost employment. It is worth pointing out that several municipalities, including my own, are currently using social contracts to bring unemployed people into the regular labour market. Something that Equal Unique also thinks is that you should highlight people's resources and skills and not focus on disability. This is a call that I am prepared to take on board, and I assume that many of my fellow party members and other politicians want to do so. Above all, however, it is important for employers to do so: see people as resources and skills. Mr President, I would like to For people with disabilities, the Government proposes an initiative to enable more people to get jobs within Samhall AB. The Government also proposes an investment in wage support and in particular introduction and follow-up support in order for more people to be able to take part in employment with wage support. In addition, it is proposed that persons with disabilities with reduced work capacity should be able to go further study-motivating courses of up to five months. That is a good thing, but it will require even more resources in the future. In addition, all young people are included in the Youth Guarantee developed by the government, which means that all young people will try to get a job or a place of study within 90 days. This initiative with the Delegation for Youth to Work includes all young people. It won't shut anyone out. What is being considered is what it would be like for more employers to realise that their organisation would be better if it reflected society at large. Today, as sick leave increases as a result of increased pressure and stress, many employers still seem to be looking for superhumans. But do they exist? In addition, employers often want the state to subsidise their employment. We can see this in this town, where you walk past cafes where it says: If you can get employment support, you can get a job here. For me, it feels like we have a doped labour market that has become accustomed to subsidies and different classifications of the labour force, not as support for the individual but as a cost reduction for the employer. Is it supposed to be this way? The common sector has a particular responsibility as an employer and should take precedence by having a diversity among its employees. Here, many employers within municipalities, state and county councils have a lot to live up to. The risk of being stupid decreases at the same rate as people with different backgrounds, skills and experiences have the opportunity to work together. Who wants to work in a stupid workplace? Mr President, I would like to When we receive signals that people with disabilities find it difficult to get a place at Samhall, it also says something about today's labour market and society. I have visited several Samhall workplaces and will make new visits to try to get a better overall picture of the company, which is Sweden's largest employer for people with disabilities. Samhall's main task is and should be to create developing jobs for people with disabilities. People should not be excluded. I hope that in a forthcoming debate we will have the opportunity to talk more about the need for a more humane and inclusive working life, where universal design enables many more people, with or without disabilities, to have a job where someone is waiting for one and where employers see everyone's full potential and do not focus on obstacles. Thank you for the debate.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-747	Mr President, I would like to We have this year's budget debate, and we are going to debate a report concerning SEK 54 billion. The question is how we have handled it. We can first look at it a little long-term. For a long time there has been a follow-up group in the Committee on Transport. We think that politics should not only make decisions but also see what the result is of what you do. Are we achieving the goals we have agreed to set? I would like to take this opportunity to draw attention to a few points that we have in our report. We have an annex in which we have an account of this. It reflects a work we did that got the title Sustainable Analysis? When it was finished. We looked at whether the current development of transport leads to long-term sustainable development or not and noted that with the socio-economic calculation models we now have it is difficult to achieve the goals. We agree in committee that we need to change the calculation models so that we can achieve the goals we have set ourselves. What we have also agreed in committee is that we should look at the climate impact of the whole transport sector and not just domestic transport. Now, in the last few days of the Paris negotiations, it is important to also pay attention to international transport in order to be able to take the right action. The climate impact of the entire transport sector is present. As a representative of the cooperation government, I am pleased that we have a large number of reforms ahead of us that we will hopefully be able to make decisions on and implement together through the Swedish parliament. The Swedish negotiation is an initiative that was taken by the Alliance Government and will be completed. Hopefully it will be a decision during this term of office. It is really a paradigm shift in all of Railway Sweden. We have been able to see that many people want to travel by train for a long time when the railways have been too far away. It has been invested in different parts. Some, the Hallandsås tunnel, were inaugurated this week. On Saturday, I'll have the pleasure of taking a train to Trelleborg. It is an initiative that I have been working on since 1998, so I will be delighted about it very much. The Swedish negotiation is a new approach. They want to make the same effort as Sweden did in the 1800s and that actively helped to lift Sweden from a poor agricultural country to a modern industrial country. The time has come for us to reduce our dependence on oil and have modern transports that allow people to move around comfortably and meet others for work and other purposes. Then you build the railway a whole distance instead of taking small parts separately. You have a predictability. It is needed to double public transport, which we have an announcement about here in Parliament, but it is also needed to get the train traffic in order now, because trains are basically colliding with each other when very many trains at different speeds are crowded on the same track. This is part of a perhaps broader approach dealing with fossil fuel independence. That concept was also coined during the time of the alliance government, but it was somewhat unclear what the alliance government wanted to do with the concept that was taken care of and highlighted. Then there was a government investigation, Fossil freedom on the way. Perhaps now is the time to move from words to deeds. I am very proud and pleased that the latest government statement of government had the ambition that Sweden will become one of the first fossil-free welfare countries in the world. It is also Sweden's commitment to the ongoing Paris negotiations. Then it is important that the investments in the upcoming infrastructure bill, which the Swedish Transport Administration has now developed for which we will plan for and return to the Riksdag with next year, help to reduce Sweden's dependence on oil. Why, then, is this so important? Of course, the ongoing climate negotiations are the main reason why we need to find a transport system that does not adversely affect the climate. There is also a very strong security policy aspect in the very driving force not to be dependent on imported oil. 78% of the oil imports Sweden has gone to the transport sector. This means that we live rather dangerously and depend on the countries – now mainly Russia – that export oil. We need regional development, a cycle and environmentally friendly development where we are much more dependent on the energy we can produce ourselves, either via biogas or via electric power or other modern technology. It also requires that we have a change of mode. It is not enough to replace petrol and diesel with renewable fuels, but we also need a reliable track infrastructure, and we also need to find more transport-efficient ways of planning society. The budget of the Cooperation Government can be a contribution to this.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-759	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the chairman of the Committee on Transport for his good cooperation in the committee on many issues. I think it is good that we can hook arms when we have common opinions, and we agree on a lot. Then there are some issues where we might land in slightly different conclusions. I thought I'd give my attention to one of those questions. This applies to our heavy goods transport on the roads. The chairman of the committee recognizes this. If you seriously believe that the Swedish business community needs all kinds of transport and that we cannot abolish the truck tomorrow without it being needed for our Swedish companies, it can, I think, be wise to think about how we can make transport more efficient. The other week, the Swedish Transport Administration's investigation came to permit 74-ton trucks. This means that you can transport more goods on the same truck, to the benefit of the efficiency of our companies and the environment, when there are fewer vehicles on our roads. But the government parties have been silent since the Swedish Transport Administration left its investigation, although there is an announcement from the Riksdag that we should introduce heavier trucks on our roads. I would therefore like to ask Karin Svensson Smith how she views the Swedish Transport Administration's new investigation. Is there any reason to proceed with the proposal, as the Finnish Transport Administration notes that it is economically viable to allow lorries up to 74 tonnes?
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-763	Mr President, I would like to I would like to present the results of the Fossil Freedom on the Move study, because it shows very clearly that we need both efficiency in the respective modes of transport and a better combination of modes of transport. The EU White Paper and the EU's transport policy have for a long time been saying that the distribution that exists today between road, rail and shipping is unsustainable from the climate point of view. We need to find instruments so that shipping and the railways are used more and the truck is less. But, of course, each transport sector should be as energy efficient as possible. How this is to happen depends partly on where in the country it is happening. The country I come from does not have much logging, and there the railways and shipping are good alternatives. This can be compared to the landscapes where most of Sweden's forestry is located. There may not be an alternative to a truck. It is, of course, an advantage that fewer trucks are being transported instead of dividing it up into smaller lorries, provided that the roadway maintains it. The proposals that have come from the Swedish Transport Administration are for a referral during the government's preparation. When it's finished, we'll have to take a stand on the outcome.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-766	Mr President, I would like to I asked the question because both Karin Svensson Smith and her party colleague o r earlier in many contexts have expressed themselves very negative about the idea of allowing heavier trucks. "Monster trucks" is a concept that has taken place in the debate. Sometimes it seems that resistance to rubber wheels has become a blinding ideology. I am pleased if the Green Party is beginning to change its mind on this issue. Then I think it is quite reasonable – or rather: I assume – that the government will follow Parliament's announcements in this regard. I believe that Swedish industry and our Swedish companies need more efficient truck transport. If Karin Svensson Smith also does not believe that we can spare the truck tomorrow, I hope we can agree that it is better to make our truck transport more efficient. The Finnish Transport Agency also concluded that the risk of transfer from rail to road is rather marginal. This has also been established by VTI in the past. I ask my question again: can we expect the government to follow Parliament's announcement and get back to us as soon as possible with proposals on how to get heavier trucks on our roads? I think it is necessary for the environment, for jobs and for Swedish competitiveness.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-770	Mr President, I would like to I believe that an overall assessment must be made of the measures needed in the field of road, rail and maritime transport in order to achieve the objective of reducing dependence on oil in the transport sector. Then it is undeniably a fact that the rolling resistance between rubber wheels and road is greater than the rolling resistance between steel wheels and rails, let alone the friction between ship hull and water. If you are to have as little energy as possible to carry out transport, it is another combination that is needed, in general. That does not mean that in some places, as I said earlier, it is not an advantage if you can have fewer and longer vehicles, whether it be road, rail or maritime. The trend seems to go that way. What overall assessment is being made of how to get a freight transport system that reduces oil dependence, I do not yet have an answer to. I think the government will come back to that.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-773	Mr President, I would like to Do not think for a second that we are going to stand and watch as the shortcomings of the rail system are increasing and the confidence of passengers is becoming less and less. We're acting. Don't think for a second that we stand and watch as the need for expanded public transport increases. We're acting. Do not think for a second that we stand and watch when Swedish haulage industry risks being competed with osj yst conditions or when more and more shipping companies choose to flag out Swedish ships. We act, and we do it responsibly – for jobs, for welfare and for a sustainable future. Now we turn the trend for Sweden and invest our common tax money in jobs and confidence in the future instead of in more job tax deductions. The transport system plays an important role in this work. Mr President, I would like to Let me briefly elaborate what I mean. In order to remedy the shortcomings of the railways, we invest an additional EUR 1.24 billion per year in strengthening railway maintenance. We also make a separate investment in rail in rural areas with SEK 100 million. Broken overhead contact lines, end-of-life switches and switchgears are among the everyday needs of travellers, so resource enhancement is necessary in order not to further aggravate the situation. But we need to make even more of an effort to improve the quality of the infrastructure we have. Today there are widespread problems without a single grip. The government is therefore prepared to propose measures for a sharper and more effective management of maintenance in order to increase punctuality, so that travellers and freight buyers dare to trust delivery. Public transport needs are increasing, and the government contributes SEK 500 million per year in an urban environment agreement, which means that the government will co-finance climate-smart public transport, which in turn creates the conditions for increased housing construction. Through better collaboration between public transport development and housing construction, we can build more to more people. But, Mr President, it is not only in cities that public transport needs to be expanded. The need is also present in other parts of the country. We meet this by investing more than SEK 200 million per year in public transport measures in rural municipalities. Road maintenance is also enhanced, with 100 million. And we are making a substantial effort to promote cycling with an equal amount of money. In order to overcome the unhealthy conditions of competition in the haulage industry, the decision on 64-tonne trucks and the measures in relation to chopping and high sanctioning charges for cabotage offences have combined made the government's work for the fairest conditions and more jobs take a good step on its way. And with regard to the long-standing flagging out of Swedish ships, the government has decided to introduce a tonnage tax from mid-year next year, to the great pleasure of the shipping industry. Mr President, I would like to In 1853, one of the most important decisions was perhaps made in the Swedish parliament: that the state should build regular rail lines. The decision was made despite the fact that there was no production of either locomotives, wagons or railway rails. Most of it would have to be bought in from abroad, and it would be very resource-intensive. The government and parliament hesitated for a long time, but saw that developments in other Western European countries were favored by rail investments. Decisions were made, and industrialization and confidence in the future took off in our country. The trunk lines then built are largely the same as we travel on today. That is the perspective we must have. The infrastructure efforts we are planning for today will create confidence in the future and will continue to be used in 100 years' time. After several years of reluctance, when the then Minister of Finance Anders Borg spoke of Sweden having overinvested in rail, the bourgeois government suddenly changed foot and began to seriously plan for the expansion of the railway and new high-speed lines. It is a work that our government continues. I very much welcome the fact that there is now broad agreement in this House on an investment in modern high-speed trains. With Sweden's negotiations, the foundation for the largest infrastructure building Sweden has seen in many years, while providing opportunities for many new homes. Mr President, I would like to We have stated that we will have the EU's lowest unemployment rate by 2020. Transport policy is at the heart of this work. It's really pretty simple. With new infrastructure and improved standards of the old, more people can commute to work. They will have the opportunity to take jobs a little further away from home. This will improve labour market matching and reduce unemployment. We have also set the target for Sweden to be free from fossil fuels by 2050. Transport policy plays an important role here too. As much as one third of Sweden's climate emissions come from the transport sector. Public transport is an example, as has been shown. Two thirds of all fuels there are now renewable. But there is still a lot of work to be done. Mr President, I would like to Do not think for a second that we are going to settle down with the measures we have already taken in the area by area. The government continues to act unabatedly. But if major future investments are to become a reality, we need broad agreements. Our hand is stretched out.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-788	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr Nilsson, for a very committed speech. It even contained a small budget bomb. Yes, there should be substantial investment in transport infrastructure instead of job tax deductions. Should the fourth or the third be removed? I'm sure we'll find out, because the resources need to be made available. I have another question, however, to which I would like to take this opportunity to receive answers from Pia Nilsson and the Social Democrats. Pia is the group leader of the Social Democratic Party in the parliamentary traffic committee – The Social Democrats are one of the two government parties in the Swedish parliament. Today, Sweden's regional airports have been gathered for a conference here in Stockholm. There were a lot of questions from them about a forthcoming national aviation strategy and its content. Maybe there weren't that many answers. But I'm sure Pia Nilsson can beat this out right now. I think it is important that those who operate regional airports, the smaller ones, that is, non-governmental ones, should be informed of what is going on. There were also many questions about the announced flight tax. It causes concern, Mr President, in the country. Tax at a distance in the form of a road wear charge and tax at a distance in the form of a flight tax is seen as a strange idea. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to ask Mr Nilsson: what is the reason why an investigation is being presented and, therefore, may be considered as wanting to introduce a national airline tax? It's a tax on travel and taxes from a distance. And what are the fundamental and fundamental ideas of the national aviation strategy announced?
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-793	Mr President, I would like to I would just like to clarify what I said in my speech on job tax deductions. I don't see any new job tax deductions in the near future. That's what I meant. When it comes to regional airports, I did not have the opportunity to join Anders Åkesson and others in the sitting. My colleagues Rikard Larsson and Suzanne Svensson were present. I cannot refer to what was said there. I may ask Anna Johansson, our minister, to come back and answer the questions that Anders Åkesson wants answers to, because I do not have the details that I think Anders Åkesson is looking for. However, there is, of course, a flight strategy. We have announced this, and Anders Åkesson knows it very well. The airline tax is at the investigative stage, yes. It's not just that we're going to investigate whether it's going to be introduced. We will also highlight the impact it can actually have and how it has been dealt with in other countries. In other countries it has been introduced, but it has also been abolished. Why has this been done? That's very interesting to know. It is not so one-sided: it should only be introduced. We intend to highlight the issue from several different perspectives. It certainly deserves this, not least in view of the fact that the tax was introduced in 2006. It barely had time to be introduced before it was removed. There is indeed reason to look closely at that question. As far as road wear tax is concerned, as Anders Åkesson at least touched on a little in his question, I am more surprised that the Center Party categorically says no to discussing it at all. A lot of other countries in Europe are in favour of this. More countries are introducing a distance-based road wear tax. Let's, Anders Åkesson, look at the possibilities it can give before you say blankly no to investigating the issue at all!
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-799	Mr President, I would like to Then we have boned out the issue of the budget bomb, which was not a bomb. That's a good thing. In my record – I will probably publish it sometime – it will say that I was involved in voting off the airline tax. It was an extremely counterproductive tax – tax from a distance – that led to irrational flight movements. People in South Sweden flew to Kastrup instead of Sturup. You flew across a land border. This resulted in longer land transport, with greater climate impact. People need to move over great distances. Then the flight is rational. It is clear, Mr President, that I have an understanding of the questions Pia Nilsson is asking about air tax. Countries have introduced and removed it. It's been analyzed. However, if the government initiates a government public investigation aimed at investigating the introduction of air tax in our country, it is probably understood, Mr President, in the depths of the people, that the government intends to introduce a tax on air travel. It is very difficult to interpret it in any other way. I will come back to my question. There must have been some reasoning, a little in passing, in the Socialist Group on Transport: for what benefit are we introducing a tax on air travel? I find it hard to believe it was kind of snuck through.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-803	Mr President, I would like to The issue of aviation taxation is not really a matter for the Committee on Transport and Tourism, but it is a matter for the Committee on Finance. But it is clear that it is our business that is affected, so Anders Åkesson has a point in that. I don't think it's surprising, but I think that surprises Anders Åkesson and the Center Party. I think that the outside world, if we are to use Åkesson's expression, thinks it is honest to do a more comprehensive investigation that contains several different perspectives on what a flight tax can lead to. I think this is a force with this investigation, perhaps unlike previous investigations that have been very one-sided. I therefore look forward to taking part in that investigation. Now I'm a little unsure when it will be presented. I'm sure it'll be some time next year, maybe even a year from now. We wait and see what happens, so there is certainly reason to get back to that discussion, Anders Åkesson.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-807	Mr President, I would like to My question is the same as for the chairman of the Transport Committee here before. Once again, if we believe that our industry and our companies need all forms of transport, can we agree that we also want to make them more efficient in order to benefit both the environment and competitiveness? Pia Nilsson beat his chest that the government had indeed increased the permitted weight to 64 tonnes. It is only that large parts of the industry perceive this as an affront, because what they are waiting for is that Sweden should catch up with, for example, Finland, which already in 2013 introduced and allowed 76 tonnes, to a great advantage for their industry, with which the Swedish forestry industry must compete. Then I would like to ask the same question to Pia Nilsson: can we expect the government to come back to Parliament with a proposal to allow trucks of 74 tonnes, or will the Green Party be allowed to control this transport issue as well? Will it apply to all transport issues in the future? We have argued in this House about Bypass Stockholm, which would indeed be built, according to the Social Democrats in the election movement. Then the construction was stopped and froze at a cost of SEK 170 million – a marginal cost, to quote the Government. It is investigating the decommissioning of Bromma Airport, although it promised the opposite, and in the election movement the Social Democrats were pushing very hard that it should be faster to introduce these heavier trucks. But now that you're sitting on a solid foundation – actually, the alliance government already had a good basis – which shows that it's socially profitable, it's quiet from the government parties. Therefore, I would also like to ask Pia Nilsson: can we expect the government to come back with a concrete proposal for 74 tonnes and to do so urgently in accordance with Parliament's announcement?
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-812	Mr President, I would like to Yes, I beat myself to the chest and am very proud that we have introduced the possibility of 64 tons. That's more than Jessica Rosencrantz's government was able to do during its eight years of government, so I'm very proud even if I'm not completely satisfied. However, I am very pleased that we have moved on with an investigation of 74 tons. That investigation lands in very interesting conclusions, just those that Jessica Rosencrantz lifts up. From an environmental point of view, there are undeniably advantages of 74 tonnes. It will therefore be interesting to see, and I am excited to see, the continued work for the government that will take place after the referral procedure. It is not so easy to introduce 74 tonnes as it sounds from the moderate point of view. It is a cost that is not entirely insignificant. The figure is said to be 12 billion to strengthen bridges and certain roads. On the other hand, there is considerable scope for existing road networks to operate at 74 tonnes. According to the study, there is a great opportunity to do something on this issue in a kind of near future. But there are also major commitments that need to be analysed even more, and I know that the government will of course take this very seriously. I am also fully aware that there is an announcement. Announcements should be taken very seriously. Our government does. Then I just want to say to Jessica Rosencrantz that the bypass is being built, and Bromma is being dismantled, we are not.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-818	Mr President, I would like to I can only say that it was a very high tone from the Social Democrats in opposition. It was so incredibly important to allow 74 tons here and now. 64 tons is a step in the right direction, but if you are out meeting riders, you can see that they are almost laughing at this reform. After all, no one invests in new vehicles because it is suddenly possible to load some tons more. I think everyone realises that when we talk about 74 tonnes, which is what the big debate is about, it is what they are waiting for out there. Most people probably see it as a form of concession to the Green Party that you didn't dare go all the way. Pia Nilsson must understand my concern, because, as was said by the Social Democrats in opposition to the election movement, they have then failed to deliver. I am grateful for the reopening of the Stockholm bypass, but it was, of course, thanks to the fact that this House pushed forward on this issue and did not accept the freeze. Bromma is not being phased out," says Pia Nilsson. No, not yet. But there's an investigation into decommissioning. I do not know exactly how you justify your investigations, but they usually signal some kind of will orientation. Of course, a great many companies and people around the country have been intimidated by the ongoing decommissioning investigation. I'm really happy if the government moves on with 74 tons. I expect you to. The Moderates have allocated SEK 300 million next year for reinforcements in the road network and intend to do so for the next eight years. It would also have been nice if the government's ambition had been to invest the funds needed to strengthen bridges and roads. Mr President, I would like to I look forward to the government living up to the announcement made by Parliament to return to Parliament as soon as possible with concrete regulatory proposals so that we can get heavier trucks, for the benefit of both climate and competitiveness.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-825	Mr President, I would like to It was obvious, Jessica Rosencrantz, that during the eight years you ruled, no proposal was made, either at 64 tonnes or at 74 tonnes. Surely we have to agree on that. On the other hand, there was a proposal for 64 tonnes after ten months of rule by our cooperation government. That's what I call delivery! That's what I call our action. That's what I mean, and that's what the haulage industry and the Swedish people notice. I know that the former Minister for Infrastructure thought that this would be a bit tricky to introduce, if I may be a little careless. It was just a regulation that needed to be amended. It should have been done long before the elections. That's not what happened. Why not? Well, because the issue is more complex than just saying that now we are. We must, of course, ensure that there is an economy for that. We need to strengthen a large part of the road network where we intend these transports to go. So there is some work to be done. The concern that Jessica Rosencrantz is trying to translate around Bromma and all that is now comes largely from the moderate ranks, I would say. We are not being reached by those signals any more than we are in this House. We have constructive discussions with companies and with others involved in much of the business community. But there is no concern, because there is no decision to close Bromma.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-830	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by referring to the specific opinion of the Moderates and calling for reservations 2 and 4. Mr President, I would like to Sweden is, to the surface, the third largest country in the EU, elongated and sparsely populated. A well-functioning infrastructure is a prerequisite for people to be able to get to and from work, and it lays the foundation for jobs and growth in our country. The government proposes tax on everything that moves. It's truck tax, airline tax, increased taxes on petrol and diesel. It is also planned to close Bromma airport. On the contrary, the Moderates see that we need to develop and not make our transport difficult if the whole of Sweden is to live. Businesses and industry depend on competitive transport. There is a need for both a functioning railway and a functioning road. The railway will never go everywhere, and not least the Swedish forestry industry needs the truck. Heavy goods vehicles up to 74 tonnes make it possible to transport more goods, reduce the number of trucks on our roads and reduce emissions. Mr President, I would like to The Parliament has demanded the rapid introduction of heavier trucks, and the Moderates want to invest SEK 300 million annually for eight years to strengthen bridges and roads. Finland allowed heavy goods vehicles as early as 2013. Strangely enough, it was possible to do there. Certainly it should also be possible to do so in Sweden. I remember that at least one of the government parties clearly stated this during its opposition period. I agree. I believe that if we want to safeguard Swedish competitiveness, we cannot afford to wait any longer while our forestry industry is being competed out by the Finnish. Another issue I would like to touch on and which is incredibly important is shipping. Sweden is as close to getting to an island without being to a very long coastline. Sweden also has a proud history of having a strong shipping industry. The Alliance government conducted an active maritime policy of which I am incredibly proud. In addition to an action plan for enhancing the competitiveness of the shipping industry and a maritime strategy, the question of tonnage tax was examined to identify the last questions. After all, they were many because it is complicated matter. Taxes are rarely demanded by the players, but tonnage taxes have long been demanded by the industry as a way to simplify everyday life and increase the predictability of the business. I am proud and pleased that both the government and the Moderates are proposing the introduction of a tonnage tax. A third point I would like to highlight is the railways. It is quite clear that we want more transport to go by rail. It's climate smart, and it's effective. But we can all agree that we have underinvested in the railways. We have not taken care of the system that we have built. There is perhaps something in the fact that many politicians find it more fun to cut ties than to engage in the maintenance issue. But it's important. In the future, we need to find better systems to build in the maintenance aspect already when building and making our investments. When the alliance government took office, it was noted that there had been substantial underinvestment on the maintenance side. The Alliance government doubled the allocation, Mr President, to the operation and maintenance of the railways in order to bring up the standard. The Alliance also initiated the construction of Sweden, an idea to connect our three major cities with high-speed trains. But there is more to be done in order for the railways to get the standard we want. The Moderates therefore want to spend an extra 1.4 billion on railway maintenance so that people and companies can feel safe using the train. But I mean, Mr President, that it is not enough to speak crowns and crowns. It is quite clear that those who know the business see that the money does not come out in an adequate way. Then I expect the government to strengthen the control of the Swedish Transport Administration in the future. It is incredibly important to ensure that we get as much rail out of every crown as possible. Not least Gunnar Alexandersson's investigation has shown that there are major problems with steering and what knowledge the Swedish Transport Administration has about the facility that exists. Mr President, I would like to The government will raise the tax by SEK 34 billion in 2016. 80% are hitting jobs and entrepreneurship directly. Overall, the tax increases are 40 times higher than the government's so-called industrial policy initiatives. A flight tax is being investigated that would directly affect the accessibility of our elongated country. Without going into this debate, I can see that it has been tried in other countries. We could look outwards, for example towards Holland. Then we could easily conclude that a flight tax leads to fewer jobs and lower growth. Mr President, I would like to At the same time, investigating the decommissioning of Bromma-- yes, that's exactly what you're investigating-- is breaking the conditions for flying in this elongated country. The Government's ambition to introduce a kilometre tax on lorries and to significantly increase the tax on petrol and diesel also strikes directly at those who live and operate outside our major cities, where there are often no alternatives to the car. It also impairs the competitiveness of our companies and of industry. I am the first, Mr President, to want to work towards a better environment and lower emissions, but then we will work on smart control methods. Then we will use super environmental car premiums, electrification of our roads, bonus-malus systems, heavier and longer trucks and trains. However, direct taxation of distances and those without alternatives is to resort to simple but directly harmful solutions. Mr President, I would like to The Transport Committee also addresses an announcement to the Government regarding a review of the Swedish Transport Agency's supervisory fees. It is strange that the government parties have reserved. Today's charging system is hitting hard, not least against our smaller companies. A review is needed here to improve efficiency. The Alliance has two reservations. I do not have time to immerse myself in them, but one is about reviewing the charging of charges from aviation and one is about better consulting with interest groups. I can only say that it is regrettable that the Government has closed down the Logistics Forum, which was an excellent way of consulting the cross-roads and with the whole industry. Mr President, I would like to Sweden needs a policy that sees that our country is large, sparsely populated and in need of reliable transport so that people can get to work and companies get their goods delivered. The punitive taxes on everything that the government is now introducing are completely the wrong way to go. The answers of the Moderates are to develop all modes of transport so that people and companies can make use of rail as well as road, air and shipping to make their lives go together. Mr President, we need a transport system that makes it possible to live and operate throughout Sweden.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-850	Mr President, I would like to It is interesting to hear Jessica Rosencrantz a year after the debate we had on rail maintenance. Then it was suddenly not at all interesting to add a single crown. We put forward a proposal of 1.24 billion already for 2015. The majority in parliament said no to that. Together, the Alliance and the Swedish Democrats made up their minds. The budget that won the Parliament's ear did not include another crown in railway maintenance. Suddenly something has happened. Now proposals are being made for 1.4 billion, i.e. 186 million more than the government. It hasn't been done in 16 years. As long as statistics have been kept up, the Alliance has not presented a single crown more than we have done. Now you do it all of a sudden. It may be the loss of paleness of reflection that comes to grips with even the Alliance. What are the Moderates thinking about funding? It is cryptic in the documents that exist that you intend to remove 209 million SEK from the 1:1 grant. Those who listen will not be very wise about it, but it is about the development of and investment in rail. That's where Jessica Rosencrantz wants to take away 209 million. What's going away? Is it Inlandsbanan, the contribution to Sälen Airport or what does Jessica Rosencrantz think? Yeah, let's raise the treasure. We raise taxes in order to invest in jobs, in faith in the future, in a sustainable society. We have seen what eight years of tax cuts have led to. Unemployment has increased.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-854	Mr President, I would like to It will be a little silly to debate individual years when one can see that during the 20th century a party has dominated the government of the country. It has consistently chosen not to invest adequate funds in maintenance. It is gratifying that when the alliance government took office and decided to double the allocation for operation and maintenance of the railway, the Social Democrats followed. But it took an alliance government to show that there needed to be a doubling of the allocation in the national plan. It is only to compare Göran Persson's last plan with the alliance government's during the previous term of office to see that it was we who made that priority. I can only say that if you impose penalties taxes on everything that moves, you also get some money. It may be that the Moderates do not always have exactly the means to invest. The problem is that this government gives with one hand and takes with the other. Usually you take billions and give millions and call it bets. I find this view of politics dishonest, Mr President, and I do not subscribe to it. I'm proud that the Alliance government doubled the funding. We will continue to evaluate gradually how much the railways need. What concerns me now is that the Finnish Transport Administration and others are unable to get the funds out. I hope that the new government, the red-green government, will take a strong step to ensure that we no longer have enough time to get out and make these efforts. And no, there are no special bets we want to scrap or cut back on. These two budget lines are to be seen as a whole. Both I and Pia Nilsson know that all these crowns are not directly specified for precise investments but are part of a pot that it is up to the Swedish Transport Administration to distribute.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-861	Mr President, I would like to That may be the case, but it is so specific that it says 209 million, not 200 or 210, so I was curious and thought that there is surely something not written here. It is strange, I think, to hear Jessica Rosencrantz say that the alliance government has doubled the funding. Yes, but what happened to these double funds over eight years? Did we get fewer ne-powered contact lines? Was it a reduction in broken track and track? Were there other switchboards that were renovated, that it was reinvested in? What happened? Increased punctuality, Jessica? Did the confidence of travellers, freight transporters and freight buyers increase? Did it happen during the eight years you were in charge? You know the answer, I know the answer, everyone knows the answer: no. You have not managed your pound wisely. It's quite obvious, because the fact is not very impressive. So must you admit, Jessica Rosencrantz. M doesn't have the money. No, you're used to borrowing. You have borrowed quite a lot of money for your tax cuts; we have seen that. SEK 72 billion stood at the beginning of 2015. Now this government has managed to halve that deficit. Now it is the crown for the roll-out of reform that we are talking about a great deal. Investments must be financed; that is the case. This is also evident in this budget. Jessica is talking about increasing funding credits, that is to say that we should borrow from future funding also in relation to the infrastructure. I don't think it feels very honest. It is not a policy supported by the Cooperation Government.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-868	Mr President, I would like to Actually, it's not constructive to throw things at each other like this. But we have different opinions, so let's do it after all. I think we both want the railroad well. However, I can see that the Swedish railways' standards have fallen as low as previous governments did, it takes time to catch up. It doesn't get any easier every year you don't invest. Believe me; I really wish we had fewer problems with contact lines and other things, both during our time and your time. That is something we must now catch up with because it is sad out there on many stretches. We can agree on that. I am happy to have a budget debate, and I think it is right and good that we are now investing more in infrastructure. But I think it is just as important for us to ensure that we make the right efforts in the future in terms of control of the Finnish Transport Administration and the concrete maintenance efforts. As I said, we can pour crowns over the rail system, but if they do not get into the tracks, they will not have any effect. At least in this respect, let us agree that we need to hook arms there. Above all, because the government is the one that controls the authorities, I expect to take on board the conclusions that Gunnar Alexandersson came up with in December, but also those that he came up with earlier, for example about what Stefan Löfven talked about in the election movement – that it would be the solution to renationalise all operation and maintenance on the railway side. Gunnar Alexandersson is very clear that renationalisation is not the solution, so I hope that those proposals by the Social Democrats will not be taken forward. No, we need good funding for the maintenance side and good control of the Swedish Transport Administration, and then we will never let the standard fall so low again.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-874	Mr President, I would like to We are, of course, behind our budget exercise, but since SD is the party that invests most in infrastructure, our investments are higher than the set framework. We cannot therefore support our budget in this area. Our country is a beautiful, elongated country with great distances. To illustrate the great distances, let me give you an example. From Smygehuk in the south to Riksgränsen in the north, it is a distance of a hundred and twenty miles [202 km] — a distance that takes almost 22 hours to drive if you choose a car, with an average speed of 92 kilometers per hour. If you choose to fly the same route it takes about 1 hour and 45 minutes. It is very different in time to get through Sweden with different modes of transport. The fact that Sweden is a large and relatively sparsely populated country poses major challenges for public society. Transport infrastructure must enable the transport of both goods and labour. But we must not forget the wonderful nature we have around us, which also leads to a lot of tourists coming to visit. Sweden received 19.9 million visits from abroad in 2014. 16 percent of all visits had the main purpose of business travel and 84 percent private travel. The average consumption during the stay in Sweden was SEK 1,085 per person per day. Tourism's total turnover increased by about 5 per cent, and foreign visitors' consumption in Sweden increased by nearly 13 per cent in 2014. Tourism has an enormous urge to see Swedish nature, and a good infrastructure is a prerequisite. All modes of transport are needed. We're not going to take out one mode of transport to benefit another. We must ensure that they complement each other. A container calling at a port with an ocean-going ship may continue its journey by lorry, ship or train depending on its final destination. A good example is a container that comes to Sweden by ship, is loaded by rail and transported to a combined terminal, where the latter is loaded on a truck and driven the last piece to the shop or end customer. This transport uses ships, trains and trucks. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish democrats see environmental benefits in allowing goods to have combined transport between the different modes of transport. To allow the longer and heavier transports, which can be loaded up to 74 tonnes on lorries, is also to be seen as a great advantage. Then you can load more goods on each transport, which in addition to faster transport provides better economy and better environment. Today, there is unsound competition in the transport industry on the road haulage side with cabotage offences. The Swedish Democrats have contributed to the implementation of heavy fines for cabotage offences, where the fee is to be paid on the spot, and to the customs and police having the right to trample the vehicle. In order to gain further control, we want Maut systems, which exist in Germany, to be introduced so that fraud in the haulage industry can be curbed more easily. Maritime transport is an important transport carrier, and Sweden has a long coast with many ports. Unfortunately, the sea is not used as much as one might wish. In order to promote maritime transport, inland infrastructure must also function for further transport. The interaction between sea and land is important. It is also safe transport. Alco-boms in ports are an important part of a higher level of security and an easy way to promote zero vision on our roads. The sulphur directive, which applies in the Baltic Sea, we would like to see extended to the whole of Europe for the sake of both the environment and competition. It is important to give the Swedish Maritime Administration the right tools to carry out checks so that they can comply with the directive and sanction infringements. In order to improve the environment in the Baltic Sea, we have, pending an international agreement on latrine discharge for all ships, set aside nearly 27 million per year in the form of a abolished fairway fee for cruise ships leaving their grey and black water in ports instead of dumping it in the sea. We Swedish democrats are pleased that the government is signing the Cape Town Convention, which we had previously in our budgets. This leads to reduced leasing costs for airlines, and hopefully aircraft are not being flagged out to the same extent as ships. Bromma airport is an issue that has been badly debated, and together with the Alliance, the Swedish Democrats have made an announcement that we do not want to lay ne d Bromma airport. Bromma airport is one of the most trafficked in the country and is needed for transportation to and from Stockholm, which is the country's strongest growth engine. Arlanda is close to its capacity maximum and is unable to take over the aircraft operating Bromma.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-889	Mr President, I would like to Wise governments and their infrastructure ministers are building bridges and roads to make it easier for people and goods to travel and meet in an increasingly open society. Transparency creates growth and prosperity. That is my firm opinion and that of the Center Party. The week we are now in, just before Christmas and the turn of the year 2015/ 16, the Romson Government – Löfven and its Minister for Infrastructure Anna Johansson have presented, taken back and resubmitted legislative proposals that bring us to the state that prevailed in our country shortly after the Second World War. There were ID requirements, although then in the form of passport checks, for all travellers between Sweden and its neighbours. State SJ and other train operators as well as other collective operators that transport us across the land border between Sweden and Denmark, and even to and from other neighbouring countries, react to this by considering stopping their traffic. This will take place in 2015. Wise governments make it easier for people and goods to travel and meet in an open society. That is what provides us with resources for our common prosperity building, such as resources for building important transport infrastructure. Mr President, I would like to It is in the shadow of what we have today to debate the content of the state budget relating to transport infrastructure. The Center Party's vision is that Sweden, one of the world's most trade-dependent countries, will also become one of the world's most successful countries economically, with opportunities for everyone to work and develop. I and the Center Party want Sweden to be an example in the environmental field and show, through concrete instruments, that economic growth, people's mobility, trade in goods, innovation and entrepreneurship go hand in hand with reduced greenhouse gas emissions and toxins and with increasing ecological balance. The Center Party has therefore proposed an alternative to the Government's budget bill in its budget motion for this year. The motion proposes major and important structural reforms in the labour market and in the housing market, rescheduling of taxes on labour and business conditions, and a strong green tax shift, where reduced tax on labour is financed by the polluter paying for emissions. The aim of our policy is to free up the forces that exist throughout our country so that new initiatives and ideas are rewarded instead of punished. In a first step of its budgetary process, however, Parliament has supported the Romson Government – the Lövven Budget Bill and the spending framework and estimates of revenue proposed there. Since Parliament has given budgetary policy a completely different direction from that which I and the Center Party wish to see, I am abstaining from taking part in the decision on the distribution of appropriations. Instead, within the framework of the work of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, I set out in a separate opinion how the allocation of appropriations should take place in Category 22. In addition, like Jessica Rosencrantz, I would like to support the two reservations expressed by the alliance parties in the report in this regard. Let me get back to the transport infrastructure. It's important to have a whole country perspective. It is a prerequisite for job creation, for travelling between home and work, for the transport of goods by industry within and outside our country and for being able to take part in the labour market, culture and social context. Infrastructure investments in our country have been low in relation to needs for a long time. After a very long decline, which started in 2005, investments have turned up again as a result of the strong efforts of the alliance government. I recognise, Mr President, that we still have a large fixed infrastructure debt that requires further investment throughout the country, especially in a worn-down railway system. An expanded railway and increased investments in operation and maintenance means increased opportunities for environmentally friendly travel and commute throughout the country. Rail is also a fundamental prerequisite for the long-distance transport of goods by industry. The Alliance government doubled efforts on railway operation and maintenance compared to previous Social Democratic governments. We in the Center Party therefore propose an additional investment of almost half a billion SEK more than the corresponding investment in the Government's proposal for the coming years. Investment in infrastructure and public transport should take place throughout the country instead of making up for a little bit here and a little bit there by means of small funds. One such example, that by too little means compensate a little here and a little there, a little now and a little bit, is the government Romson – Lövven's investment in public transport in rural areas. There, the Government proposes an increased investment of SEK 200 million. 200 million kroner, how much is it really? Annually, approximately SEK 21,000 million goes to operation and maintenance on existing roads and railways. Of this, about SEK 13 000 million goes to the road network and SEK 8 000 million to the railway. The Government of Romson – Lövven represent less than 1 per cent of the total funding. We in the Center Party consistently want policy measures in infrastructure, as well as in other policy areas, to make a concrete difference. Otherwise, there's little point in them. Public transport is a good thing, but 200 million SEK in some kind of rural investment is not a rural proposal that makes any difference in reality. It will be divided into 21 counties in our country, which means just under SEK 10 million per county. It is not enough if you want to make a strong investment in public transport in Swedish rural areas. There is reason, Mr President, to point out in this connection that many cannot rely on public transport and that they, especially those living in rural areas, will be severely affected by the increased fuel tax proposed by the same government.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-906	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for our reservation 3 to investigate the financing of the Swedish Maritime Administration. Maritime transport has great potential both for reducing climate emissions and for transporting goods by boat instead of by truck. The Left Party therefore wants an investigation to be carried out to see how to provide a level playing field for the environmentally friendly modes of transport by possibly transferring the Swedish Maritime Administration to state funding, i.e. if the investigation shows that this is reasonable. Fairway charges are something that should be reviewed. We in the Left Party are also very pleased with the increased public transport investments in sparsely populated areas that we have managed to get through in the negotiations. I agree that these are not huge bets. It is a first step towards developing public transport throughout the country. We need to think other than big cities. It'll be so easy to end up there in the end. There are now more and more different car sharing solutions and different alternative solutions for small villages. There are smaller investments that can give you a lot that you can, for example, test within the project. But we need to do much more in the future. It's just a first step. It is also good that work on the city agreement is progressing. It is good that it places demands on municipalities to work to reduce motorism in cities as counter-requirements to obtain funds for the expansion of public transport. Research points to a strong transfer from car to public transport by reducing urban carism with concrete measures in urban planning while lowering the price of public transport and also working on its accessibility. This is, for example, how they have worked in Fr eiburg, Germany. I have spoken to traffic researchers who support that model. We will need to strengthen public transport very much if we are to achieve the climate targets. It would also be a way of getting a great many citizens interested in climate action. Many motorists are provoked by the fact that public transport is expensive. Even a Volvo manager at a recent seminar acknowledged that public transport is too expensive. That's very interesting. Another problem with public transport is that we have now organised it in many regions and that it is located together with the county councils. Most county councils have a very heavy budget. Health care has a tough economy. There are great needs and also major shortcomings in healthcare today. Not many climate politicians stand up and say: We need less care and more public transport. It's a little bit of a misorganization that we now have. For example, if you look at Karlstad, which has not been so strongly linked to the county councils but has a stronger municipal influence in the public transport committee, you can see that they are in the front line when it comes to developing public transport. It is important that we put it on the agenda and also bear in mind that more state funds are needed to get work on doubling the target properly started. Because of the organization, the care is a restraint. We are also delighted that there is finally funding in our budget for railway maintenance. It is wonderful to have a budget where we spend more on rail than on road. When we have these climate times, we'll finally bet right. After all, rail is the most energy efficient means of transport to carry goods. It is also one of the more energy efficient means of transport for passenger transport. That's very good. We heard here Jessica Rosencrantz mention that the structure of the Finnish Transport Administration must be such that it works. Here I am of the opposite opinion to what she has. I have received information from several quarters that it is precisely the fragmentation of the business of several companies that is the problem. Now you have half as much track workers on the tracks. A lot of people have instead moved up and become administrators to control all these companies because of the liberalisations. It's a huge problem that we should be dealing with and looking over. We have a review under way if the state is to have increased collective responsibility, and we are going to review the nationalisation of certain essential elements. I hope that work is progressing so that we can get the money. I have received information from railway workers, train drivers and so on. They tell me how the money doesn't get through. You don't even have time to get into the action plan that there should be maintenance in good time because the organization is so bad. An entire summer may be missed because you do not have time to get the order out in time. I think it happened last summer. You don't work at all, and money doesn't come to its own. It's really serious. It is interesting that we have had a bourgeois government in the past and also red governments that have not given sufficient priority to the railways. When we are faced with the climate situation we have, I hope that the words we hear here from the speaker's seat will mean that we continue to give real priority to rail freight. We had just the Trade and Industry Transport Council in committee. They were very clear that what the business community in Sweden is asking for is rail freight. It's very effective for them if it works. At present, there are problems with reliability. Here we could have a common understanding of the blocks and really great effort on the railways. I would like briefly to highlight heavy goods transport on a truck. When the investigation comes on the table, it is very important to observe that we will not first be able to prioritise the paths that benefit the forest industry in Norrland. It's the fine mesh net. If the proposals are followed, priority will first be given to the major motorways which really compete with rail. It is terribly wrong when we need to get lorries off the roads and increase traffic on the railways. Here I have talked to some scientists who have been involved in the 74-tonne investigations. They say that it is incredibly important that the Swedish Transport Agency for 74 tonnes is given a mandate to strengthen transhipment piers, transhipment nodes and maintenance work in the nodes that shorten truck stretches. We will have a plan where we plan that it is nevertheless the railway that will take the largest pieces of the route that the goods are transported. I would like to take it into the debate. I hope that everyone will take it along and drive it at different levels and get it into work so that we do not just get a lot of big trucks on our European roads in the country that are competing out the railways. If there are 74 tons, we will still give priority to the railways and work as these researchers say. We will strengthen transhipment nodes to get the goods by rail as soon as possible. The Alliance thinks that we are taxing flights, trucks and other things that are not good for the environment. It's all about priorities. I will now soon miss my flight to Paris, where I am on my way to the climate summit. When I get home from there, I suspect we might have got a little better deal than last time. But we will be far from there. We will have to work incredibly efficiently at all levels to achieve the climate goals. We need to make some tough decisions that steer us towards climate-efficient means of transport.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-926	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Emma Wallrup! I just need to be explained to myself by the Left Party, one of the main pillars of the cooperation government in infrastructure policy. Is there a contradiction between road and rail, or is there an intermodality between road and rail, in the Left Party's reasoning on freight and passenger transport throughout the country? What is the attitude of the Left Party when it is finally said that there is more to it than there is to it? What is the relation of the Left Party to the fact that we have six times as long road routes as there are people and businesses in our country as we have rail routes in our country to keep track of? It's six times longer road than rail, Emma Wallrup. Is there at all any future for a person, a company or a workplace located along a Swedish road, small or large, in Left Party Sweden?
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-928	Mr President, I would like to Yes, it does. For a long time, we have given priority to road investments throughout the country – not just to the big cities. We have also given more priority in our budgets to road maintenance than to building new roads. However, we believe in more public transport and more rail. It is more energy efficient, more transport efficient and more surface efficient. It is incredibly important that we dare to control the Swedish Transport Administration and that we give new models that can have sustainability. It must not be the case, for example, that an extension of a lock is given priority because too little diesel tax is paid to the state, as has apparently happened in a region in Sweden due to the socio-economic analyses. It is incredibly important that we give the Finnish Transport Administration a clear guideline from the policy that we want more rail than road. But we want roads throughout the country, and we want road maintenance throughout the country so that the whole country can live. However, we shall have a transfer to the smart modes of transport. We were together in China with the Transport Committee. It was quite interesting. Some parts of the route we sat in a small bus for several hours when we were going through the city because there was traffic jam. Then we went by subway, swished up and arrived in the minute without any waiting time. It's smarter with rails. It is more efficient, it requires less space, it is easier to plan, there is less emissions and there is less noise. There are so many good parts in rails and such means of transport that it is clear that we should benefit them more than road. But we will also ensure that the roads work throughout the country.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-933	Mr President, I would like to That's another interesting reference from the China trip. Thank you. Then we also know what DNA it is on the powerful rural investment of SEK 200 million on public transport. That must, of course, be the success of the Left Party in the internal budget negotiations. Then, of course, I have a specific question for the Left Party. We can settle for Emma Wallrup's homeland, which is Uppland. It's a mix of big city and countryside. How much more public transport is expected to get in Uppland for SEK 10 million based on the strong initiative the Left Party has been involved in pushing through in the draft budget we are currently dealing with? SEK 10 million more per year – how much more public transport will there be in the rural areas of Upland for this?
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-936	Mr President, I would like to I fully agree that this is not a big effort, but it is important steps in the right direction. Many parts of the budget are important steps in the right direction and, above all, we are directing reforms where they are needed, for once. They do not go to the middle voters and upper class voters, but they go to the most vulnerable groups, to the climate change, to the sparsely populated areas and so on. It's great, but we're a long way from here. We're in the middle of steering the boat. But it will take time, because we have lived in a time where taxes have been reduced, gaps have been increased and there is less wealth, less equality and less public sector. It will take some time to steer this back, but these are some first important bets. You can make good investments in different regions. For example, you can invest in car sharing projects and smaller projects that can serve as role models for strengthening rural traffic. I would also like to take great care that these are good and well thought-out projects. I know, for example, that sometimes people talk about call-in public transport, but that they are actually spending too little money when you expand it. It does not therefore become so functional, but it becomes more a way for politics to escape from rural public transport. I agree that there should not be any kind of symbolism in which the measures carried out are not well thought out and are not adequate. It must go to projects that are well thought out and which create quality and which can serve as role models for other projects. They can also serve as a model for politics when it comes to investing even more money in this.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-941	Mr President, I would like to You cannot make rid of the neglected maintenance of the railway that has been going on for many decades, Emma Wallrup. You have been part of the government and a support party for the current government for many decades of Social Democratic rule and so on. This poor maintenance of the railways requires various efforts to ensure the delivery of freight transport. You're not supposed to set different traffic laws against each other like you do. Today, the rails on our track are not able to handle the goods according to the demand of the forest industry and other industries. We were told that a few weeks ago in committee. They wish that we could have provided better maintenance so that they could transport more goods via the railways. We have proposed and announced, as previous speakers have also said, the introduction of longer and heavier lorries precisely in order to make transport more efficient. There will be less pollution and less CO2 emissions. Then there will be more goods carried by fewer trucks, if you say so. You are turning for and trying to hug the environment, and all of a sudden you are against this investment which is the optimal today until the day when we have got the order and the maintenance of the railway. It can take forever; it's really an eternity project. I therefore have a question for you, Emma Wallrup. In fact, you should try to work in parallel on this issue. Why are you against heavier and longer trucks?
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-945	Mr President, I would like to I can say this: we are investigating the issue in the party. We have not landed, but I think we will land on a well-thought-out model that looks at the overall picture. It is incredibly important that we do not compete out of the railways. We had just the Business Transport Council with us, and they were super clear that they want rail. It is important that we work so that we do not compete out of the railway. One interesting thing in the investigation that has now come about heavy goods transport of 74 tonnes is that it will cost about 12 billion. That is what infrastructure, the reinforcement of bridges and such things will cost. According to the railway promotion, 10 billion is needed for railway maintenance in order for us to catch up. It is incredibly important for politics to think through what you are doing now if you choose to spend money on trucks rather than on railways when it is what the business community is also asking for. If there are 74 tonnes, we must take measures that benefit the railways. We did this the last time we had longer and heavier trucks in Sweden. When we made such a decision, we invested in reducing track charges. Now we're going to raise track charges pretty bad. We really need to think this through here. If we implement 74 tonnes, we must simultaneously invest in the railways and also perhaps work with road wear and tear charges and such things. We must not miss climate targets. Then we have no earth to live on. It is a fact today; we all know that. It is also about what I said earlier and about which researchers talk – that it is important that the reinforcements are given the right priority. We will strengthen the nodes that help to transship to rail as soon as possible. We're just gonna drive those heavy trucks where there's no alternative. It should not be on the long European roads. Unfortunately, the investigation has more pointed the other way, as I said earlier.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-952	Mr President, I would like to The question is, what is the alternative today? There is not enough space on the railway. In addition, it is substandard, and there is no rail capacity today to carry freight. Then there is another option that one should be able to combine this with. One must not exclude the other as long as freight transport on the railways is not enough. My question is really: why not do both? The option of heavier and longer trucks also reduces pollution. More goods are transported compared to today's trucks, which can carry up to 64 tonnes. Why not go further and allow longer and heavier freight trains to make rail transport more efficient? Mr President, I would like to The Left Party says no to heavier and longer trucks while they are in favour of trucks of current size being able to travel several times on our roads and pollute with carbon dioxide emissions and more. We say yes to heavier and longer trucks to try to invest in railway maintenance in the meantime. The Christian Democrats are proposing 1.24 billion to maintain the railways.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-956	Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, 1.24 billion is not enough, because we need to reach 10 billion. Now we are in our budget about 8 billion, but we need to increase in much more than you do in order to achieve the targets. At the same time, we must bear in mind the increase in rail charges that is taking place now. It is certainly a compensatory measure, but it is not as large as we need to see in the long term that it will be. It is simply a matter of getting up to the levels that allow us to achieve the objectives of a good, functioning railway. It is not impossible; it is about priorities and will. I agree that we should have several modes of transport, but we need to think this through so that we do not compete with the railways.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-958	Mr President, I would like to For us liberals in Sweden's liberal party, everything begins and ends with the individual. It was the curiosity of the individual and the search for prosperity that caused our ancestors to leave their dwellings and begin to travel toward greatness. People's freedom and prosperity benefit from good communications, and we in Parliament have a special duty to maintain and facilitate mobility both in terms of people travelling in the tid of globalisation and in terms of ideas, capital and goods in our own country. We will lay the foundations for good infrastructure through an expanded road, rail and broadband network. We should not close roads to the world with ditch runs in infrastructure policy, a lack of security in freight transport or a stop-ultimatum for aviation. Sweden deserves better. Companies deserve better. The commuting individual deserves better. Throughout history, we in Sweden have made our country big by reducing the distances in our large country. We have done so by building the country together with nourishing infrastructure, from timber rafting on the rivers of old to today's modern, smart and efficient truck transport. As a job-creating entrepreneur, I know how important the infrastructure is, and we will continue to work for a world-class infrastructure. Mr President, I would like to We are now facing a troubled time in our world. We see how people like you and I move away from war and towards peace, freedom and liberalism. We in the Liberals are taking on the future with a belief in man along with a responsible economic policy. We need a balanced budget to meet economic challenges in the short term. We have therefore deliberately put in a tight budget motion with a lower expenditure ceiling and higher financial savings than the government's proposal, which affects our investment in infrastructure. It has been two weeks since the Riksdag approved the Government's proposal for a framework for the spending areas of the state budget. Once again, a step is taken away from the work of the Liberals and the Alliance for jobs, development and reduced exclusion. It is a sad development, and it is particularly sad to see the negative development of women's entrepreneurship where I rather wanted to see more women do more, with more job creators in the sector. As a human being and as an entrepreneur, I feel the uncertainty too well. It is a paralyzing feeling that threatens the willingness to invest and the nutrient climate. We Liberals will take responsibility and see a value in holding the budget process together. We will avoid individual secession and thus choose to see the draft budgets as a whole. I therefore choose not to take part in the decision on the allocation of appropriations under Category 22 but, with my speech, would like to make a special opinion and to call for both of our alliance-wide reservations to be approved. I would also like to wish Mr President, the Bureau, the Members and you back home a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-968	Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats' transport policy is based on people being able to live and work throughout the country. A well-developed and efficient transport system of roads, railways, air links and shipping, as well as rapid telecommunications and data communications, is an important prerequisite for the future development of Sweden as a whole. Infrastructure plays a major role in the country's competitiveness and growth. Efficient communications and transport are also crucial for companies to remain active even in small towns and to enable work commuting to and from cities. Mr President, I would like to I would like to mention a few priorities that we in the Christian Democrats are doing in our budget motion. Road safety is an important issue and significant progress has been made in reducing the number of people killed and severely injured in traffic. But we need to do even more. The Christian Democrats propose that the penalty for drunk driving should be reduced. We want a ban on drinking. This means that we want it to be forbidden to drink alcohol for the first six hours after a road accident.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-972	We want to introduce alcohol tests for pilots and flight crew when boarding and disembarking. Do we want to introduce alcoboms in the border ports so that it will not be possible to drive drunk from a ship and out on the roads? We want to make it possible with heavier and longer trucks, which can weigh up to 74 tonnes and be 30 metres long. More goods will be transported with fewer journeys. It will be a win-win situation with less CO2 emissions and cheaper freight transport for business. In order to make rail freight more advantageous, we also propose longer and heavier loaded trains, as is demanded by industry. Mr President, I would like to The bike fulfils an important social function, both for health and for the environment. It is also clear that today the traffic environment is not sufficiently suited to cycling. In recent years the number of road deaths and accidents has decreased, but unfortunately this is not the case for cyclists. Instead, the number of cyclists killed increased in 2014. For an increased and safe cycling in traffic, we will therefore invest SEK 25 million in the coming years. Mr President, I would like to The passenger car will continue to be needed to meet, in particular, the changing needs of families with children and rural areas. Sales of charging hybrids and electric cars have increased rapidly in recent years. In order to encourage consumers to buy charging hybrids and electric cars, it is important to invest in an expanded charging infrastructure for electric and hybrid cars. The Christian Democrats are investing SEK 125 million per year during the coming period in more charging stations. This is an important effort to achieve the goal of a fossil-independent vehicle fleet by 2030 and that we will be totally fossil-free by 2050. Mr President, I would like to A well-functioning aviation sector plays a significant role in Sweden's economic and social development. It is necessary for Sweden's export industry and for travel and is a prerequisite for a successful regional policy. Regional airports in Sweden are of great importance for communications between Stockholm and other destinations around Sweden and the world to function. The Christian Democrats therefore look with great concern at the discussion about the closure of Bromma airport, despite announcements from the Riksdag that Bromma airport should not be closed. The railway, like shipping, is a climate-efficient mode of transport. Railways need to be developed towards greater capacity and operational safety. The operation and maintenance of the country's railways secures and improves the functionality of the transport system and is an important prerequisite for securing jobs and the environment and reducing climate impact. Sweden is an export-dependent country. A well-developed infrastructure is crucial for competitiveness and growth. The Christian Democrats want to increase investments in the operation and maintenance of the railway by SEK 1.24 billion per year to reduce, among other things, train stops and delays. The alliance parties have made sure that the construction of Bypass Stockholm has started. And we will ensure that Bromma airport will continue to develop as hubs for the regional routes and not be closed down. The Christian Democrats believe that it is time to start planning also for the construction of an eastern link, a ring road around Stockholm, in order to reduce transit traffic, connect areas and create conditions for regional development. The Government's draft budget contains tax increases on jobs and growth of over SEK 30 billion. It is a policy that is holding back growth in the country. Some tax increases that impair Sweden's competitiveness and affect people living in rural areas are the introduction of mileage and air taxes, a sharp increase in petrol and diesel taxes and an annual automatic indexation of these fuels. Such measures will have a negative impact on our entire sparsely populated country and all industries dependent on transport. Mr President, I would like to I refer to the special opinion of the Christian Democrats and call for the joint reservations of the Alliance to be approved. I would also like to take this opportunity to wish everyone a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-985	Mr President, I would like to It may be a lot to say that life is like a long journey. But it is true that much of our everyday lives and the functions of society as a whole are influenced by the way transport works in society. For the government, it is clear that transport policy aims to contribute to the overall objectives of the government's policy. They are the EU's lowest unemployment rate by 2020, the construction of at least 250 000 homes and the transition to achieve the environmental and climate objectives we have set ourselves. When we presented the draft budget, Sweden saw a little differently from today. It has been a dramatic autumn in many ways. The objectives we have set ourselves are still ambitious, but they have perhaps become even more challenging. Then it's easy to think that you should save on a lot of things. I'm sure we'll have to do that. But we also need even more efficient, efficient and sustainable transport. We are facing major challenges, not only in society as a whole, but also in terms of our transport. We need to meet an increased population's need for increased accessibility while at the same time reducing the environmental and climate impact of the transport sector. We need to maintain the infrastructure we have and at the same time build new ones. We need to ensure that we have efficient, sustainable and less environmentally friendly transport modes in our major cities while ensuring that accessibility across the country is provided. We need to welcome an open market while safeguarding fair conditions in the transport market. Accessibility throughout the country means, among other things, that we will continue to support regional airports while supporting public transport and its expansion, including in sparsely populated areas. But it is not enough just to look at sparsely populated areas. We also need to support to get more efficient public transport solutions in cities. That is what we are doing with the urban environment agreements. When we face these major challenges, it is, of course, the responsibility of the government to contribute a wide range of measures. Let's do that. Railway maintenance is supported by increased funding but also by getting a better organisation for execution. We have developed the maritime strategy and continue to work with the competitiveness of shipping. We have started work on a bicycle strategy. We have adopted and will continue to work on even more measures for order and order in professional traffic. We've begun work on developing a flight strategy. We are adopting an expansion strategy for alternative fuels and so on. In many ways, we are in a break time. At the same time as we have technological developments that are raging rapidly and giving us unimagined opportunities, we have an increasingly urgent need for change. We also need to give great priority to the finite resources we have at our disposal. It will place high demands on us to be both slow and fast, that we both think and, at the same time, do not hesitate to make decisions when necessary. When I'm out meeting not least the business community, I often meet an expectation that we who sit in this room right now will take responsibility for offering long-term and stable rules of play. This applies not least to the work that is to be done next year, when we begin work on developing the major infrastructure projects of the next planning period. Although there are parts where we do not fully agree, there are many areas where we share the same ambitions, see the same threats and also the same opportunities. One example of this is the Swedish negotiation. Most parties in this room now agree that we need to expand the railways in Sweden to meet the challenges of the future. I believe that there is much more that we can agree on when we look at the long-term and great needs for improved transport infrastructure. I therefore look forward to further constructive discussions on how we can jointly meet the needs of the future for sustainable transport systems. The outside world expects it from us. A troubled time is time for responsibility. The Red-Green Government stands ready to take responsibility for the future. And I am convinced that there are more of us in this room who are prepared to take responsibility for creating the stable rules of the game and the calm that are needed in a troubled time.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-997	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Minister Johansson for her speech. There was a lot in it that I could sign up for. This is a budget debate. It is ultimately about how we finance and what we want to fund. This is a priority discussion we are engaged in. The Government's party partner Pia Nilsson marked very hard against tax cuts as a method for making society grow. Rather, she argued for tax increases in the form of mileage taxes and so on. That's ideology. But this prompts me to ask the Government a question about the input about Sweden's construction, the Swedish negotiations. It is a project that was estimated to cost SEK 150 billion. According to recent information, it was more like SEK 250 billion. In addition, around SEK 100 - 150 billion of investments will be made. It's a huge amount of resources. As regards the demand for stable rules of the game, this is a project that is expected to last for a very long time, for several terms of office. It requires very responsible and sustainable funding. If the project were to be financed directly over the state budget, more than 70% of the resources would be seized, and that is not reasonable. Then we would have protests both in Kalmar district and in Gothenburg. My question to the Government will be: What ideas regarding the financing of the Swedish negotiation is the government associating with right now? It is likely that conversations can be conducted on the basis of the extended hand that we have just noted.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-1003	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by saying that, for the Social Democrats, taxes are never an objective, but a means. This means that certain taxes may be harmful and certain taxes may be necessary. Taxes are both an instrument and a way of financing important activities. Therefore, taxes should be designed in a way that contributes to what they want to achieve, such as the transition to more environmentally friendly and climate-friendly alternatives. The Swedish negotiation is about long-term commitment, I think we agree on that. It is therefore important that we have a broad agreement in the Swedish Parliament on how to implement it. It is not possible to start the project with a piece of rail and then let the construction stop for four years while waiting for a possible change of government. The attitude that the government currently has is that we look forward with great excitement to the interim report that Sweden's negotiations will submit at the end of the year and which deals with financial engineering. We have also initiated a number of hearings on alternative forms of funding in general. This can range from loan financing to different types of user charges. These can be different types of OPS solutions and, for example, congestion taxes. Not least, it may be a distance-based road tax that can be a source of funding. I think you need to look at this widely, and perhaps not just look at Sweden's negotiations, but generally see how you can increase the resources that you have at your disposal to develop the infrastructure in Sweden.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-1007	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister Johansson. I feel that we have a common understanding of the excellence of the green tax exchange. Perhaps I am calling for a little more emphasis on this in the budget proposal that we are currently dealing with. But the government hasn't been fully successful, but I'm rooting for it. Do I interpret the Minister correctly when she expressed – as I understood – that she is in favour of OPS as one of several possible methods? I and the Center Party believe that this could be a way of finding the sources of funding required, especially if we are talking about 250 billion kroner and more. Then we are probably talking about more than 70% of the space. In addition, investment in the existing infrastructure is intended to make it useful to build a high-speed road. Do I interpret the Government's right to loan financing, OPS funding or other funding are thoughts with which the government is associated?
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-1010	Mr President, I would like to We are now in a situation where there is a great need for investment, both in housing and in infrastructure and in such activities as education. Municipalities and county councils are also facing major investment needs. Then you need to have an open attitude to all kinds of financial solutions, and the government does. On the other hand, probes should always be made in view of the fact that we should also have sound public finances. We will never be allowed to go on with Sweden's economy and taxpayers' money. It is possible that OPS can be an option, but it requires that it is the right object and shape for it to work. But at the moment, we're not closing doors. We want as open an attitude as possible to ensure that the need for infrastructure is acknowledged and, at the same time, to safeguard sound public finances.
i-CSj8jqDba5pW1XgafSHjfZ	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for your speech. Centerpartiet and Anders Åkesson spent a few minutes on crowns and crowns. I would like to spend a few minutes discussing the principled relationship between the government – the parliament and the order of decision that exists between them. It is important to note that we have a regime here today with a red-green government backed by 38%. Nowadays, the Riksdag makes a number of different decisions on announcements that bind the government in many contexts. Then I would like to discuss with the Government what respect the Government has for Parliament's decisions and, above all, what importance the Government attaches to the so-called announcements from the Transport Committee and from Sweden's highest elected assembly. I ask the question because we have a number of questions that we often discuss, and the Government is also aware of that. Above all, we have a number of issues where the Transport Committee and the Riksdag have been very clear that a certain amount of action is required from the government. We are once again talking about heavy goods vehicles, where we have called for urgent action to be taken to introduce 74 tonne lorries. But it is also about Bromma airport that is needed for jobs and growth throughout Sweden. On the latter issue, Parliament has very clearly called for Bromma airport to remain and for the government to suspend the investigation into the decommissioning of the airport. Then my specific question to the Government is: When can we expect the Government to comply with Parliament's decisions on these two issues? I would also like to ask a more fundamental question: how does the Government view announcements from the Riksdag? Do they matter? Will the Government and the Government follow these announcements? I expect that, of course, but I would like to hear what the Government's response is.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-1019	Mr President, I would like to I think it is clear to all of us that the Riksdag is Sweden's highest decision-making body and the elected assembly that makes decisions on the budget and makes law. According to our constitution, the government is the authority that governs the kingdom, among other things by governing authorities and by the possibility of setting up investigations. Of course, the announcements made by the Riksdag are taken into account and taken care of by the Government. That has been the case in the past, and so it will be now. On the other hand, one might think about the instrument of announcement and whether it is possible to make negative announcements, i.e. prohibit the government from taking certain types of decisions beforehand. This is the subject of a discussion that Jessica Rosencrantz is certainly aware of. It can also be questioned whether the parliament can, through announcements, deprive the government of the right to set up investigations of various kinds. This is rather a discussion that may not belong in the area of transport and infrastructure, but it is an interesting one. I hope someone else brings up that thread.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-1023	Mr President, I would like to It does not sound like the Government is overly bound by announcements, and it is only to be regretted. I would like this government, like other governments, to attach great importance and respect to the announcements made by Parliament. In the end, there are legislative tools that the Riksdag also handles on these issues, and it is interesting to know how the Government considers that it wants to move forward on these issues. The question was probably most rhetorical on my part. I expected a fairly clear answer that it is, of course, intended to follow Parliament's announcements. Now we have had a fundamental discussion, but on the matter I can say that I believe and hope that the Government is aware of the fact that, of course, it is causing concern when an investigation into decommissioning is set up and does not give concrete answers on various issues. Although I could hope that Bromma airport will be investigated without wanting to phase it out, the whole purpose of the investigation is to consider how to phase it out, and that creates great concern. Of course, I expect the government to follow the announcements that exist. We have already made two announcements on the Bromma issue. The question is what to do after a possible third. But that debate will continue. We will simply see what happens in the spring when we also deal with aviation issues. However, I would like to conclude in a positive tone. In fact, this is our last debate for the year, and of course I would like to wish everyone a Merry Christmas! I forgot to say this in my speech, and it is my fault. From the very hard notes to the softer ones! I wish Mr President, all the staff, of course the Government, all the Members and also our fantastic office, who are doing an excellent job, a Merry Christmas! I am pleased that we can have a dialogue, disagree on certain issues and then actually have a very nice time in between. Merry Christmas to all of you!
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-1028	Mr President, I would like to It is difficult to go in hard after such a conclusion! I started my previous line by saying that we obviously take announcements from Parliament very seriously. So do we with these. One question, as Jessica Rosencrantz knows, is a long way off in an investigation. The government intends to come back on the 74-ton issue. As far as Bromma is concerned, we have been very clear that there will be no closure of Bromma airport with less than ensuring air traffic to and from Stockholm and other parts of the country. At the same time, one can see that the great unrest seems to be most widespread among bourgeois politicians, both in this hall and around the country. Otherwise, I think most people realise that it is air traffic and not geographical location that is the most important thing. But we will of course continue to take Parliament's announcements very seriously and deliver wise policies and answers to the announcements we have received. I would like to thank both Jessica Rosencrantz and the rest of the committee for their good cooperation this year. It has been both instructive and exciting, I think. I hope that you will all enjoy a Merry Christmas break and that it will be just as calm and preferably white as we hope.
i-Evm4Ui1Dp5inXJ8bfp727u	Mr President, I would like to I call for the approval of the Social Democrats and the Green Party's Amendment No 1 and, in general, for the committee's proposal for a decision. What the subject matter concerns in reservation 1– in fact it is a little the same issue that is dealt with in reservation 2 of the Alliance – are government fees in aviation and other charges levied by the Swedish Transport Agency. In preparation for the 2015 budget, there was a motion from the Moderates on this subject. Broadly speaking, this exercise was about small companies' ability to handle fees from the Swedish Transport Agency for, for example, supervision. When you go back and look at this issue and discuss how it should be dealt with, I think it is good that you get a picture of what it is all about. This is a scheme whereby the general government charge in aviation is to be phased out, so that each area is financed by direct charges. The decision on this was prepared and taken during a bourgeois government. With their motion, the Moderates turned to us and announced that they had changed their policy. The Moderates were concerned about the consequences of the policies they had themselves decided on. We said that we are willing to review this area, a broad agreement in the Transport Committee and an announcement to the government to review it. That's what happened. We addressed an announcement to the government. The government took care of the announcement and gave a commission to the Swedish Transport Agency. The Swedish Transport Agency will report the assignment in March 2016. I think there are more people who are very surprised when the same movements come back. In addition, one more exercise has been added, which is about the same thing. What does that mean? I ask my question above all to the Moderates. Are we no longer in agreement on the review that is now being carried out? What does it mean to present a new exercise on the same subject? What does the new announcement mean? Does the announcement that the government is now working on no longer apply? It becomes very confusing when you pursue the kind of policy that the bourgeois alliance and, above all, the Moderates now pursue. A few weeks ago the Transport Committee visited the Swedish Transport Agency on a study trip to Östergötland. We then had many opportunities to ask questions about the mission that the Swedish Transport Agency received from the government. I asked myself questions and, for my part, received reassuring answers. The Swedish Transport Agency has understood the meaning of the Riksdag's announcement and is looking at the issues we were worried about. They investigate this and will return to the government in March 2016 as planned. Mr President, I would like to I believe that there will be many strange debates in this House if, among other things, the proposal made by the Moderates is based on a suspicion of the Government's ambition in the missions to the authorities and also on questioning the agreements we make with the Moderates. We heard in the line just now a constant question as to whether the announcement will be taken care of. For us, it is very clear: we make an agreement and an announcement to the government applies to these. The government marks it by taking care of the announcement. Then we wait for the evaluation that we have jointly agreed to be made. Mr President, I would like to Once again, I am in favour of Amendment No 1 and otherwise of the committee's proposal.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-1039	Mr President, I would like to I thank Rikard Larsson for his speech. This is an issue that my colleague, Edward Riedl, would have been here to debate, but unfortunately he has been prevented. If we are going to discuss this issue a little, I can say that it was very good that we agreed on the announcement that we had. But what has happened since then is that the authority has moved in exactly the opposite direction, as Rikard Larsson also knows very well. The charges have been reduced, while we had a common argument that we should rather go the other way. This is what the Alliance has called for. Although we have an announcement and the issue is being investigated, the authority has de facto moved in exactly the opposite direction. As Rikard Larsson well knows, there are many technical details in this, and for various reasons we shall not repeat all those in this House. The reason, however, on the part of the Alliance is that we are not satisfied with the fact that the authority is moving in exactly the opposite direction after we have adopted an announcement in committee.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-1042	Mr President, I would like to I am aware that this is actually a question that Mr Riedl would deal with. That is why I also deleted the most harsh jumps in my speech. It works so that the Riksdag makes an announcement to the government. Then it is the government that takes care of the announcement. Parliament does not address announcements to the authorities. I'd like to ask you a counter-question. I share the picture that the Swedish Transport Agency proposed a change in the fee that went in a different direction from that contained in the exercise. However, the exercise was not fully approved. Does the honourable Member mean that the Government would go in and order the Authority to take a different decision? In that case, it is a very strange order and something that the government is not concerned with, namely ministerial government. That, of course, cannot work. The Authority makes its decisions. The government will take care of the announcement. Then the authorities get assignments. That is exactly how it has been done, and precisely in that order it will be done. That's exactly what we agreed.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-1047	Mr President, I would like to When we discussed the last announcement, we reached a compromise, in which we partially gave up and did not advocate a quite as sharp wording as in our own motion, precisely because we saw the need for a cross-block agreement. Then we found a softer formulation in the announcement. As we follow the trend, we see that it goes in exactly the opposite direction to what our original exercise and the new exercise required. Then I and the Alliance think that there is a reason to show which is the will of the Committee on Transport. Then one can have full respect for the decision-making system that exists, but on the committee's side we have been no stranger to showing our will in many different contexts, whether this is a doubling of public transport or this issue. When we saw that the Authority was moving in exactly the opposite direction to what the discussion was in the last announcement – now it is becoming very technical – we naturally felt a concern. We believe that it is ultimately a matter of ensuring good standards and safety for the airlines operating here and ultimately for the passengers flying. Then today's fees are not satisfactory.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-1050	Mr President, I would like to With all due respect and desire for Merry Christmas and so on, I have to say that I am becoming even more confused here. I will not be clear if the opposition thinks that the government should deal with ministerial government and order the authorities to take a different type of decision from those they independently make. We agreed on the announcement. The government is doing exactly what is stated in the announcement. I don't really know what the Alliance really wants. Although we have accepted the announcement and are doing exactly as we agreed, we continue to stir up motions on the same issue. I can only interpret it in one way, namely that we are not satisfied with the agreements we have on the announcement. That is very unfortunate, because it was a good and powerful signal from this House that the current regime must be reviewed from the outside if it affects individual companies and sectors in a negative way. These are exactly the assignments that the Swedish Transport Agency has been given and is about to carry out. Then the Moderates choose to take a step in another direction. That is very unfortunate. To conclude, I agree with what Jessica Rosencrantz said in her previous post about a Merry Christmas for everyone.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-1054	Mr President, I would like to We are, of course, behind our budgetary motion, but since the Swedish Democrats are the party that spends most on infrastructure, our efforts are higher than the established framework, and we cannot therefore ask for our budget in this area to be approved. Sweden's size and population density pose challenges in terms of access to services and services, mainly in rural areas. A well-developed and reliable communications network, whether broadband or postal, is of the utmost importance for the whole of Sweden to flourish and develop. Therefore, the Swedish Democrats see that the state plays an important role in, among other things, broadband expansion, and that reforms are likely to be necessary to give the postal industry the opportunity to develop and meet the challenges that our changed consumption behaviour presents, both in terms of goods and information. In addition to other investments, the Swedish Democrats want to introduce a market pool for investments in addition to the ordinary financial framework, corresponding to 2% of the total expenditure category 22. The market pool aims to be rapidly used to remove emerging bottlenecks that stand in the way of significant industrial investment. The proposal is fully in line with what has been highlighted by the Enterprise Transport Council. The construction of Sweden, or the negotiation of Sweden, is supported by all the parties involved, and the municipalities concerned are keen to start the construction of housing as soon as possible, something they believe requires that the railway is completed. According to Trafikverket's planning, the high-speed railway, with construction start in 2020, is at best completed by 2035 but more likely by 2040. The estimated cost of the project was SEK 170 billion a week ago. Last Friday, Trafikverket announced a bust – the project suddenly became SEK 90 billion more expensive. I will come back to this a little later in my speech. Mr President, I would like to The public's lack of confidence in Trafikverket can risk the whole of Sweden's negotiations because they believe that they have not been able to deliver trains on time, complete projects quickly enough, run a cost-effective operation or provide a functioning maintenance. The Swedish Transport Administration already has problems managing the railway plant and should not be burdened with Sweden's largest infrastructure infrastructure, with a major impact on the state budget, as this could affect the project through slow expansion, slow action and lack of competence. It is therefore an advantage if the Finnish Transport Administration can concentrate on the existing railway facility and ensure that maintenance is managed, prevent accidents and ensure that trains arrive on time. This alone is a very demanding task for the Finnish Transport Administration. Since Trafikverket consists to a very large extent of staff with road skills, the organisation is incorrectly rigged to implement Sweden's largest railway project. Competence and corporate culture do not meet the requirements, which is clear because the Ostlink is already late today. Mr President, I would like to Let me talk about the East Link. On Trafikverket's website you can read that Ostlinken will start to be built in 2018, and the first train will roll in 2028. We are talking here about a stretch of railway that is 150 km long as the Swedish Transport Administration needs ten years to build. When it comes to the cost increase of SEK 90 billion for the entire high-speed railway construction, Trafikverket blames geological conditions, that the land where the tracks are built must not fall and that there must be no changes in height or sideways. I note that the Swedish Transport Administration was hit by the millennium bug in 2000, because when all other authorities' watches were changed from 1999 to 2000, the Swedish Transport Administration's clocks were changed to 1900. The Swedish Transport Administration believes that it is now in 1915, and they will build Ostlinken with 100 years old technology. In brackets I can mention that the Malmbanan between Luleå and Gällivare, which was built in 1882– 1887, is 25 mil long, and at that time it was built in five years. The Finnish Transport Agency needs ten years in 2015 to build a railway that is 150 km long. The Finnish Transport Agency is building a railway in a very outdated way. On the East Link you will build 200 specially made bridges, where each bridge is three times as expensive as a prefabricated bridge. The last time custom - made bridges were built on the Botnia railway, where 50 percent of the bridges are now driven at a limited speed, as problems arise with mixed construction technology, where the ground - built high - speed track is mixed with bridges. Trafikverket thus intends to build Ostlänken, i.e. the Järna – Linköping section with outdated construction technology. So you need ten years to build a 100 - mile [150 km] railway. It's a disaster! If you use modern construction technology, i.e. railway is built on low bridges with prefabricated bridge elements, we have the entire high-speed railway between Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö completed in five years from the start of construction. In China, the Beijing-Shanghai railway was built in less than five years, and it is a distance of nearly 1,200 km. One of the most topical examples is India, where a high-speed rail link between Mumbai and Ahmadabad is to be built with Japanese knowledge. The stretch is 500 miles. Construction starts in 2017. And the whole railway will be put into operation in 2023. Thus, a 500 km long railway is being built in five years. The Swedish Transport Agency needs ten years to build a 150-mile railway. What's the point? There is not a train operator around the world who is interested in purchasing high-speed trains to operate the Stoc k holm – Linköping route. If we decide to build a high-speed railway, we need a holistic approach. We cannot continue to allow the Swedish Transport Administration to build railways with outdated construction technology. We cannot continue to let the Swedish Transport Administration build some high-speed railway here and some high-speed railway there, like a patchwork. As long as the railways are not complete, we are not getting any revenue. And we can't let the Finnish Transport Administration deal with our tax money as if it were monopolistic money.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-1071	Mr President, I would like to I thought I'd describe a little bit what the government is working on and what you might be working on instead. When we were in power during the last parliamentary term, we often heard criticism that we were investigating certain things and that it took a very long time before it became a decision. It takes time to both investigate and listen to decisions – we are aware of that. I can agree that sometimes investigations should be able to go faster. I am happy to be involved in a process where we look at the way we work to facilitate investigation and to make decisions faster. This is becoming more important and more important, as we live in a world that is constantly changing and as the competitive situation for our companies changes. If we do not follow, we lose both business and work here in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to I would like to mention some important examples of the strange way in which the government operates. The present environmental-partisan left-wing government has begun with the artefact to investigate what is already under investigation and clear. New investigations are being set up on matters to which the Riksdag has already said yes or no. It's clear and clear, and it's being investigated again and again. It costs money. It costs time. And that hampers the efficiency of society. We in the Alliance investigated proposals to introduce a customer responsibility. At the same time, we investigated whether the same rules as Finland may have in relation to customer responsibility should be introduced. We then thought that we should try step one first in the customer responsibility and see how it worked. And we now believe that we should move forward and introduce step two. What, then, does the present government do? Well, a new investigation is being set up to see how this could be introduced, what was already investigated and clear. That investigation shall be completed by 15 March 2016. We wanted to introduce clamping for more than 24 hours. Several people at the time thought it was complicated. It took us to go through this legally so that we could do it on all fronts. The opposition then claimed that there were no difficulties. It could be introduced immediately if only the will existed. The opposition then talked about wanting to go for real, i.e. longer than 24 hours. Now the same politician sits in the government. Instead of introducing what was extremely easy to introduce before the elections, when we tabled the 24-hour proposal, it has now been set up – hear and behold – another study to see how this simple could be introduced. That investigation is not completed until 1 May 2017. Yeah, you heard me right. It should therefore take until 1 May 2017 before it has been determined whether it is possible to trample longer than 24 hours. What would have been done in a single club bill before the elections takes almost three years for this government. Then the decision has not yet been made. After that investigation, it will certainly be prepared at the Government Office and elsewhere before we really have a new decision. Then it's about the next investigation that we in the Alliance finished. Pia claimed in a previous speech that the government has done this. No, it wasn't really like that. We're the ones who finished the investigation on 64 and 74 tons. It was ready on the table to be clubbed in August 2014. You took office after the election. What happened after this? It is extremely important that we get both heavier and longer trucks. It strengthens our competitiveness. Above all, it reduces environmental emissions. But what did the government do when it was just about a club team? Well, they set up a new investigation into the same thing. They blamed that they would also see how the rail system would suffer if the trucks in Sweden were to load a few extra tons, just as they do in Finland, as if it would affect rail traffic in Sweden that some trucks could bring a little more forest and that some chippers and bulk cars could load a little heavier and make full use of the transport. This introduced Finland with a club team without a single investigation. What, then, did this investigation, presented on November 30, come up with? Well, it came to the same conclusion as the investigation by the Llian government came to the end of August. It is quite possible to introduce this. It is perfectly possible to introduce it on limited distances already now. We can then move forward and look at new solutions for strengthening certain areas. Sweden and Sweden's entrepreneurs have lost competitiveness because this government chooses to investigate what has already been investigated. Mr President, I would like to We have been trying since 2012 to have alcobommar both in Gothenburg and in Frihamnen in Stockholm. Everyone talks about this being a great success, especially because it has created uncertainty in those who have been thinking about sneaking through– they can actually be stopped. You take fewer and fewer, which is good. It means that people are sober in a different way. This is done. The evaluation is complete. They're all positive. What do you think the new government is doing? Well, you set up a new investigation to look at how this is to be solved. You give assignments to Trafikverket. Then remember that the Swedish Transport Administration has been involved throughout the trial period. You've been working on this part. And we in Parliament have made a decision and said that we actually want alcoboms set up in our ports. Again, money is spent unnecessarily. It delays the decisions and delays the measures and sets up a new investigation to see how this is to be resolved. They tried to stop the expansion of Bypass Stockholm, which resulted in the loss of SEK 170 million in this country. This money had far enough to set up the alcoboms we need in our ports. This cost is about SEK 100 million. Instead, the current government chose to make this priority. The money was played away at Bypass Stockholm's late expansion. And now they say: We have no money set aside to build alcoboms in our ports. Mr President, I would like to It is strange that one can make such a priority, that one has money to delay projects that need to be built and then one has no money to build what actually has to be built in the country. Mr President, I would like to Now the government is investigating the closure of Bromma airport. This is done despite the fact that we have clearly stated in Parliament that we will not close down Bromma airport. I believe that Parliament has been extremely clear on this point – the Transport Committee has been so. Nevertheless, the government continues to spend money on investigating how this can be realised. Can we close down Bromma airport and use the place for housing purposes instead? ( First VICE PRESIDENT: The speaker has now spoken twice as long as the speaker reported that the speaker would speak. ) Mr President, I would like to I will shorten my speech a little. Here are some advices for the current government: Let's say no to airline taxes. I think it is a good thing to observe it instead of investigating it. We also say no to mileage tax. It may be clever to note it instead of continuing to investigate. We also say no to closing down Bromma airport. We say yes to the immediate decision on 74 tonnes of lorries. We also say yes to putting alcoboms up in our ports immediately. We say yes to another step in ordering responsibility. We also say 'yes' to more than 24 hours in the event of classing. It may be good for the government to note this. Then we'd be saving a lot of unnecessary investigative money in this country. Finally, the government promised that we would have the lowest unemployment rate by 2020. This has failed. But apparently the government is now trying to remedy this by creating jobs around the Government Office with all these investigations into things that we have already investigated. I would like to conclude by wishing our office, the President and the Bureau, the members of the Committee on Transport and the other audience a Merry Christmas!
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-1097	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by thanking you in the Committee on Transport and Tourism for the consideration of my motion 2015/ 16:2042 Representation from the motor lobby of the relevant authorities. In Sweden, the organisations associated with the motor hobbies are growing rapidly both at hobby level and in the commercial sector. It's about everything from radio-controlled cars to formula 1. Today, the industry employs thousands of people in Sweden in manufacturing, service and repairs, sales and more. This generates not only jobs but also large revenues for the state. As this sector is growing steadily, I believe that organisations within the industry, such as American Car Club Sweden or for that matter the Royal Automobile Club, should be given the right to transparency in the authorities that make decisions on matters that affect the industry. Mr President, I would like to The organisations can also be a useful sounding board for the relevant authorities, as their special competence must be considered as an important complement. I believe that the government should aim to extend cooperation with the relevant motor industry organisations, which will in the long run facilitate both authorities and organisations. I read in the committee's position on my motion that it is important that the knowledge of interest groups is taken into account and that they are given transparency in decision-making and the opportunity to comment on matters that concern them. The committee would like to point out that the authorities in the transport sector organise consultations with interest groups and send out proposals for referral to them. In the Committee's view, this is an effective approach. The authorities also benefit from continuous contacts with associations. ..................................................... In view of the response of the Committee on Transport and Tourism and its desire to see greater cooperation with the relevant interest groups, I see my motion as a major step in the right direction and, of course, I hope that my motion will be changed and approved when we vote in plenary. With this, I would like to vote in favour of reservation 5. I too would like to wish everyone a pleasant holiday and a Merry Christmas for those who celebrate Christmas!
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-1104	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of the Sverig Edems' Motivation Reserve 1. The Swedish Democrats want the supranational direction of the EU to be stopped, and we want to work instead for an EU of intergovernmental cooperation between free independent states and a pure free trade zone that is extended through free trade agreements with neighbouring states instead of association agreements and, by extension, the admission of extraneous Member States. We consider it essential for the EU to maintain good relations and trade relations with the neighbourhood, and we consider it important to safeguard each country's right to territorial integrity and sovereignty and the ability to make free elections without pressure from other parties. We are happy to support countries bilaterally in different ways in our neighbourhood but do not believe that this should be done within the framework of the common neighbourhood policy and association agreements. However, as long as the current arrangements remain, we believe that the conditions for concluding association agreements should be considerably tightened. The existing external border of Schengen is virtually non-existent. New potential countries for association agreements, which for some countries may lead to EU membership, will certainly further undermine the EU's border protection. Trade in identity documents and corruption within the police forces is the rule rather than the exception. If the EU really wants to influence countries in the neighbourhood towards positive development, it must become much clearer in its requirements and more consistent in terms of conditionality, i.e. that countries fulfil their commitments before concessions are made by the EU. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats want to see clearer reforms and met requirements regarding, among other things, work against corruption and organised crime, the functioning of the rule of law, functioning border controls, security and democracy and human rights before agreements are concluded. The Swedish Democrats see the Commission's lack of understanding that the Southern Neighbourhood policy has so far had very little effect on the countries of North Africa, possibly with the exception of Tunisia. Instead, developments have moved in the opposite direction. For example, corruption has worsened in all these countries. The absence of success is, of course, due to a lack of political will for reform. When political will is lacking and countries are moving backwards in development, we think it unreasonable that financial support for the countries should continue. The more-for-more principle is not enough. Sometimes a principle of less-for-less should also be applied so that aid can be phased out when it turns out to be counterproductive. An important option that the government can also imagine is to support people in failing states with a lack of willingness to reform through civil society or international NGOs. Part of the neighbourhood policy concerns visa facilitation, which is something the Swedish Democrats are critical of. Visa facilitation should not be considered until the country of origin does more to improve the situation of refugees and meets our aforementioned requirements on, among other things, effective border protection, measures to stop trafficking in human beings and reforms in the area of democracy and human rights. Establishing readmission agreements is something we support, but it is not enough as a condition for obtaining visa facilitation. The cost of EUR 15.4 billion over the period is also not justifiable given that the results in the southern neighbourhood in particular have so far been virtually non-existent in all countries except Tunisia. The review of the neighbourhood budget should consider that assistance to the Southern Neighbourhood should be more focused on contributing to better conditions for refugees and that some funds be redeployed to contribute to refugee assistance in non-neighbouring countries, for example in Syria's neighbourhood in view of the current refugee crisis.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-1116	Mr President, I would like to The opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs concerns the proposal for a review of the EU's neighbourhood policy presented by the Commission and the EU's so-called High Representative for Foreign Affairs Federica Mogherini. The neighbourhood policy concerns the EU's relations with countries both east and south of the EU. The starting point of the Left Party in terms of EU relations, as in the case of Sweden's relations with the neighbourhood, is that relations must be governed by the work of human rights, for peace and for democracy, not by narrow self-interest. The starting point must be to defend the right of every country and every people to make their political choices independently. In the eastern neighbourhood, we see how a number of countries are under strong pressure from Russia. It is a Russia which seeks to restrict the national self-determination of several countries and the right to make its political choices. The EU's response must be to protect free speech and free debate, to protect civil society and democracy, the sovereignty of each country and the self-determination of every people. We must also see that, with regard to human rights, the situation is still serious in parts of the eastern neighbourhood and that the situation differs from country to country. Here we must be clear, and we must be consistent, whether it be attacks on Pride parades in Kiev, whether it is violence against demonstrations in Armenia, whether it is a question of impunity in Moldova or whether it is a question of political prisoners in Belarus and Azerbaijan. Mr President, I would like to In the Eastern Partnership sections, the Left Party is largely behind the committee's opinion, but we have a number of issues that we want to raise due to the EU's relationship with the Southern Neighbourhood, where we see a very clear need for Sweden to push for a fundamentally changed neighbourhood policy. The Arab spring made it clear how men and women in North Africa and the Middle East dreamed of a life of freedom and were prepared with great courage to stand up for their fundamental human rights. The Arab Spring also highlighted the EU's double standards in relation to the region's authoritarian regimes. At the same time, the regimes that were criticised were regimes with which the EU often had close relations. There was extensive political cooperation with the dictatorships in Egypt, Tunisia and Libya. In the process of closing the EU's borders on refugees, several of the region's most authoritarian regimes were close allies. When it came to trade and arms exports, it was prepared to turn a blind eye to crimes and violations of human rights. After the Arab spring, the EU said that there was a will to take over the policy pursued. Issues of democracy and human rights were to be put at the top of the agenda and dealt with the double standards that had previously existed in relation to North Africa and the Middle East. There was talk of a more-for-more principle, that democratic progress should be rewarded. Unfortunately, we still see far too often the opposite. We have not seen any real change in the neighbourhood policy, and today we lack a real political will from the EU leadership to put human rights, peace and democracy first. When Egypt's authoritarian regime under Al-Sisi condemns hundreds of opponents to death in mass trials, the protests on the part of the EU are few and quiet. At the same time, freedom of the press in Jordan is restricted, and people in Jordan are sentenced to several years in prison for their Facebook status. The EU External Action Service writes that the relationship with the kingdom is excellent. Here we can rather talk about a more-for-less principle. Although Morocco continues to occupy Western Sahara and sabotage any attempt by the UN to find a peaceful solution to the conflict, the EU has continued to negotiate a deep and comprehensive free trade agreement with Morocco. If the agreement were to be put in place, it would be the most comprehensive trade agreement that the EU has with any Mediterranean country. In this context, it is gratifying that the European Court of Justice has today decided to cancel one of the EU's trade agreements with Morocco, but it is also sad to see that it is the lawyers of the European Court of Justice, not the political leadership of the European Union, who stand up for international law. When Benjamin Netanyahus's government in Israel repeatedly declares that it does not want to see a two-state solution, that it does not want to recognise Palestine's right to exist, the EU responds with a policy that can in many ways be described as business as usual. In relation to the region, the EU continues to give priority to trade and good political relations over human rights. There are still no problems whatsoever in cooperating with deeply authoritarian regimes or in deploying military means in their efforts to prevent people from exercising their fundamental human rights, namely to seek asylum. Turkey is such an example in this context. Turkey is not part of the southern neighbourhood, but it is an example of this policy when the European Union, including Sweden, is prepared to spend millions of dollars to Turkey to prevent refugees from crossing the Mediterranean, after a year in which we have seen President Erdo moving Turkey forward in an increasingly authoritarian direction. In the light of the Arab Spring and in the light of the developments we see in North Africa and the Middle East, the Left Party believes that there is a great need to fundamentally change the neighbourhood policy. Unfortunately, the proposal presented by the Commission does not in any way imply the reforms we have sought and demanded. I would therefore like to conclude by calling for the approval of reservation 2.
i-3FsC7K54bXR2y2NSVCEp1w	Mr President, I would like to I support the committee's proposal for a decision in the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and rejecting the reservations. Mr President, I would like to At a time when the EU's neighbourhood policy is being tested on a daily basis, it is important and welcome that there has been a review which has thus largely taken into account the current situation regarding relations between the EU and neighbouring countries. The situation in the Middle East and North Africa is well known, and there are major challenges and also opportunities for greater EU presence and cooperation to develop aspirations for democracy and respect for human rights. It is, of course, a question of voluntary action by the countries concerned and also of a high level of responsibility in the current context, with, among other things, a significant increase in migration. The situation around the Mediterranean is alarming and, as a whole, the EU needs a great deal of clarity in its dialogue with the countries concerned, both in terms of expectations and in terms of providing skills and experience to alleviate human distress and combat organised crime. Mr President, I would like to The neighbourhood policy with the Eastern Partnership has been in focus for a long time. The situation in Ukraine is in a fragile situation. While there are strong forces in Kiev and in Parliament that are working progressively to create well-functioning laws and authorities, the conflict in Donbass is still ongoing. Despite a cease - fire, skirmishes occur almost daily. Ukraine is at a crossroads and is in some sense in the middle between two blocs – the EU and, of course, Russia. Most of the population wants to move closer to the EU, but there are groups within the country that want to approach Russia as well. The EU must therefore face Ukraine with unabated force at all levels, assist with more observers in the war area, contribute to political developments in line with the Copenhagen criteria, expand trade and demonstrate that functioning democracies take time to develop, but that this is most possible. Mr President, I would like to Of course, the situation in Belarus should also be mentioned. Perhaps the situation is better than before. Belarus released political prisoners during the elections. The peace talks around Ukraine were held in Minsk. The elections were in some parts okay, but there are still quite serious shortcomings, not least in relation to the opposition, which were withheld both reasonable opportunities to participate in the elections and to gain insight into how, for example, the results of the elections were for the various opposition parties. At the same time, we must note that the last dictatorship on the edge of Europe is shaken by a failing economy. It is a situation in which we both want to move closer to the EU and are forced to depend on Russia. An important factor in achieving democracy is that the various opposition parties agree on common goals for achieving democracy. A divided opposition only creates more room for dictatorship. On the spring side, the EU is once again deciding whether to ease sanctions against Belarus. It is also important that the ENP focuses on security policy. The EU shall primarily contribute to supporting peace development with neighbouring countries and shall not necessarily participate in military operations until it is done for the most urgent reasons and primarily under UN mandate. Ukraine needs the EU's help on many different levels. Libya needs another form of assistance and assistance. Security policy must always be a means, not a goal, to achieve the higher values of social development: functioning democratic institutions, respect for human rights, well-organised trade exchanges and opportunities for freer movement between countries.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-1142	Mr President, I would like to The review of the European Neighbourhood Policy that we are debating here today is, in my view, an important matter, despite the fact that the debate is this late in the evening. We are living in a troubled time in Europe and in Europe's neighbours. I would like to say that the same is true of the time when the European Union was formed. It was also a time of unrest. There were a few countries that formed the European Union, then the European Community. The goal was peace, increased growth and increased prosperity and, of course, respect for human rights, democracy and more. The EU has proved to be well-served in the countries of Europe. Europe's countries have not been at war with each other since the EU was formed. I believe that this is the fundamental proof of the urgency and importance of cooperation between the countries of Europe. Of course, an organisation like the EU must also evolve as the EU grows and as the changes take place in our world. That is why the review of the European Neighbourhood Policy is urgent. It is urgent today, it was urgent yesterday and it will be urgent tomorrow. It is not possible to use yesterday's description and methods to solve current or future problems. It is when the problems are greatest and most difficult that the need for cooperation is greatest, as well as the problems of cooperation are greatest. That is the essence of the situation we are in. Now that we are talking about the review of the European Neighbourhood Policy, it is important to bear in mind that, through cooperation with the countries in our vicinity, we can actively work towards more peace, more freedom and a better economy for people in countries affected by corruption and unrest and by regimes that abuse their power. By establishing agreements with our neighbours and by working actively to strengthen democracy and the values of the European Union, we can contribute to a better life for people also in the EU's neighbours. The fact that there is widespread violence in our neighbourhood is not unknown to any of us here in Parliament. I can mention Russia as an example of a country that is aggressive towards its neighbours and is also spreading disinformation within the EU. It shows how important it is that we, as a large association, the European Union, actively work to support our neighbours. Every country finds it very difficult to resist alone when a great power is pressing. I would like to mention the Eastern Partnership, which was established in 2009. The Eastern Partnership has strengthened cooperation with the six neighbouring countries in Eastern Europe and the Caucasus. The partnership has exceeded expectations in some areas through pre-negotiated association agreements. There are also setbacks, of course. I'm thinking of Azerbaijan. But there are sparkles of light even there in the form of the release of a political prisoner in the days. There are signs of progress in Belarus, but it is, after all, a country governed by the last dictator in Europe. It is urgent to bear in mind and a sign of how important it is for the EU to work towards greater democracy. I can continue to mention country after country in this way. The countries of northern Africa, in the southern Mediterranean, are countries close to Europe. But there is growing extremism and terrorism. People flee because of political instability, economic unrest, poverty and war. This shows that, once again, the EU has a great deal to do in terms of strengthening democracy here too. That I say this is because the European neighbourhood policy is ultimately about the citizens and about the citizens' opportunities to live a peaceful life, a life based on human rights and the principles of the rule of law. To be able to dream about and realise a life where you have the opportunity to have an income, where you know that you can get education to your children, where women's rights are respected – for me this is what the Eastern Partnership is all about. With this, I call for the proposal in the report to be approved.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-1154	Mr President, I would like to I support the committee's proposal in its opinion. The EU, this small cape at the very edge of the vast European land mass, is, in a number of areas, clearly dependent on its neighbourhood, a dependency that is increasing to vulnerability in terms of energy supply, for example. It is therefore highly justified that the EU has been sticking to an institutionalised neighbourhood policy for more than ten years. It is positive that not only the political sphere has been involved in the current review of this neighbourhood policy, but that trade unions, employers' organisations, peoples' movements, think tanks, researchers and the general public have also been thinking into this process. The Communication on the review of the neighbourhood policy by the Commission and the High Representative for Foreign and Security Policy stress that sustainable development and sustainable stability in the EU's southern and eastern neighbourhood require democracy and respect for human rights and the rule of law. It also stresses the importance of stimulating inclusive economic development and providing prospects for young people. This latter is of particular importance in the Middle East and North Africa, i.e. the southern neighbourhood, where the majority of the population is under 30 years old and youth unemployment is sky-high. Lack of prospects is a breeding ground for radicalisation. Mr President, I would like to The review further notes that the incentive-based approach has been more successful in supporting progress towards democracy and the rule of law in cases where political will has been achieved. In countries where governments lack such a will, the review points to interaction with social and economic actors as an alternative way of achieving positive change. In the area of migration policy, the Commission communication is rather vague and evasive, as is partly the case in the areas where energy policy is being discussed. North Africa and the Middle East probably have the world's greatest potential for solar energy development, yet nothing is mentioned about this. Mr President, I would like to Otherwise, the communication contains clear-sighted ideas on the importance of investing in gender equality, developing independent media, diversifying business, combating corruption and stimulating student exchanges and other forms of people-to-people contacts. What makes the review somewhat problematic, however, is not primarily what is being addressed but what is being left out. Criticism of Europe's massive arms exports to hideous dictatorships in the southern neighbourhood shines with its absence. The massive outflow of armaments from Europe to the Middle East and the massive influx of refugees in the other direction deserve attention. Pecunia non olet, money does not smell, noted the Romans already 2 000 years ago, and beyond the eulogy this old truth continues to characterize too much Europe's external relations. Mr President, I would like to Credibility occurs only when words and deeds become one. On the one hand, to invite Egypt's military dictator, Field Marshal Al-Sisi, on a state visit to Berlin and London, to the official documents, such as this communication on the neighbourhood policy, to send a dual message of what the EU's leading politicians really want. Sweden, which is thankfully not in the same military alliance as Merkel and Cameron, has an inviting responsibility not to forget the central message of the Arab Spring that the future belongs to the Arab peoples and not to their oppressors. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I welcome the fact that the European Court of Justice has today annulled the EU-Morocco trade agreement on agricultural and fishery products on the grounds that the agreement also includes the occupied Western Sahara. In this way, linking trade with respect for international law points to a world in which market forces are subordinated to decisions taken democratically. Flowering trade relations between Morocco and the EU, not least in the field of renewable energy, could play a strong positive role for people, the environment and entrepreneurship throughout the Western Mediterranean. But then the former colony of Morocco must cease to act as a colonial power itself and finally carry out the UN-decided referendum on the future of Western Sahara.
i-b370d397a33e6fc4-1164	Mr President, I would like to What we are debating is a statement. Unlike the report, an opinion is not a hard decision. It's added to the file. I would like to support the proposal that the explanatory statement given by the committee be added to the file. It is a rather broad consensus in the committee, although at the end of Valter Mutt's speech it was almost possible to get the impression that he has a different position from that of the opinion. But that is not the case. He and the Green Party support the proposal in the statement. For us, neighbourhood policy is basically about transparency, about the EU being open to its neighbours. Not least, it is important for days like this when we hear doors closing in many places. Recalling that neighbourhood policy is a policy of transparency is important. It is about respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law. It is about good neighbours who respect free elections in all 16 countries that are part of the neighbourhood. It is a basis for development and prosperity, freedom and human rights for people. This is how we build long-term and sustainable security here at home and with our neighbours. In the south, we had a neighbourhood policy initiated in 2004. But Europe cannot look in just one direction. We must also look at our eastern neighbours. It was therefore important that the Eastern Partnership was initiated in 2008, to show that we are counting on the whole neighbourhood as ours. The Eastern Partnership countries had clearly expressed the wish to have closer relations with the EU. On the Swedish side, it was important, and is still important, to emphasise the membership perspective that many of our neighbours have and that we should of course back up. There is reason to underscore that, because I hear many people today thinking, Mr President, whether Europe will be sustainable or whether Europe is backing up for the great neighbour of all of us, Russia. In our eastern neighbourhood, most partner countries are members of the Council of Europe. It is, of course, an important foundation in terms of democracy, human rights and the rule of law. We received a review of the neighbourhood policy in 2011. Of course, it was based on what had happened in the south. When one oppressor after another met the voice of the people and was replaced, we received a review, more-for-more, as mentioned earlier. 2015 is the time for a new review. What took place in 2011, the Arab Spring, we have seen develop into crisis, conflict and a generally devastating reality for a great many people. We have also seen new oppressors put on the old suits. It is important, when we look at this, that we learn from experience and do not make the same mistakes again. It does not mean that we should not speak and act; it may sound like that in the discussion. We shall, of course, speak and act, because that is how we can exert pressure and produce results, results that were clear from the outset and that we must assert even now. In the east, Mr President, there have also been some developments since the last review. We have seen Russia breaking agreements and not respecting territorial integrity and free elections in different countries. We have seen the small green men moving across borders, and with arms power they have changed and redesigned Europe's map, something that we did not think was possible when we had the last review. It is clear that it is important that we draw conclusions here too and not bow down to the great neighbour, who, with arms power, redraws Europe's map. The new European Neighbourhood Policy must not lead to this. We see how it is in Georgia. I was there only a month ago and saw how, with the weight of the armed forces, the map was redrawed, how to eat Georgian territory. We see how in Ukraine, with arms, the ceasefire is broken. In recent updates from the OSSE, we were able to hear about new deaths in Donbass. We hear how to try to destabilise Ukraine in different ways. But it is not just Ukraine, Mr President. Montenegro, too, is facing destabilising forces because they have chosen a different security policy solution from that desired by the great neighbour Russia. We see it in Moldova with Transnistria, new parties and destabilising forces. We've seen it in Armenia. Nor can we fail to mention Azerbaijan and Belarus. They belong to the neighborhood, and there the clarity must be sharp. We must not end up in a situation where we start dealing with political prisoners, exchange political prisoners for sanctions and new prisoners for new sanctions. We do not want to see that development. Mr President, I would like to I hope that with the Eastern Partnership we will also now be clear and, from 1 January 2016, welcome Ukraine to the fully implemented Association Agreement and that we will not see new attempts to destabilise, which could happen. With that, Mr President, I would like to endorse the proposal in its opinion and reject the reservations.
