i-e9721325013adbdf-2	Mr President, I would like to In order for Sweden to be able to cope with future pensions, an active economic policy is needed that creates high employment and good growth. The Left Party believes that the AP funds should be able to be used to a greater extent than is currently the case for active business policy. AP funds should be managed on the basis of long-term and socio-economic criteria and not on the basis of short-term return requirements such as today. It is not only a high yield that we want to achieve, but also a world that is not destroyed by climate warming and a world where human rights are respected. One step in such a change would be to transform one of the AP funds into a fund for socially beneficial investments. The fund could invest capital in environmental technology, housing, mining or infrastructure. In our view, in order for the AP funds to be used in an active and strategic business policy, even today's tight investment rules should be changed. For example, the limit values for AP funds' ownership in Swedish limited liability companies could be changed so that they can be increased. Furthermore, the ban on investing in unlisted securities should be reviewed, which today prevents the funds from investing in smaller companies in, for example, environmental technology and medicine. A lot has happened around the AP funds in the past year. In the letter, the Government examines the funds' work on sustainability. We in the Left can see that the demand for return on the funds is in the forefront of the demand for investment to be made with regard to the environment or with respect for human rights. Instead, we in the Left Party believe that the placement of AP funds should be guided by the following environmental and ethical guidelines. Firstly, environmental and ethical considerations must be equated with the objective of high returns. Secondly, the AP funds should not invest in coal, oil or fossil gas. Thirdly, the AP funds will phase out existing investments in the fossil fuel industry within five years. Fourthly, all AP funds should have quantitative targets for investments in renewable energy. Fifthly, all AP funds shall account for calculated greenhouse gas emissions for their investments. Sixthly, the AP funds should not invest in companies that use tax havens to escape taxation from Sweden or from other countries. The fact that these types of ambitions are largely lacking today in many of the AP funds is clear. Let me give you some examples. The Arequipa region of southern Peru has been shaken over the past year by protests and demonstrations against Southern Copper Corporation's mining project, called Tia Maria, in the Tamdo Valley. The local population protests against the mining company because it is feared that the copper mine will cause environmental damage, threaten water supply and affect the small farmers' ability to farm in the area. Since the beginning of 2009, the local community has argued that mining is detrimental to its access to water. It limits the production of rice, sugar cane and peppers in the Tambo Valley, which is considered the country's grain shed. After popular opposition, the project was put on ice in 2011. A few months ago, however, work on the mine was resumed. The conflict was revived, and thousands of people have participated in demonstrations against the mining plans. The demonstrations have been met by police force, which has led to several deaths and many injuries. The Government of Peru has declared a state of emergency since the protests against the Tia Maria mining project escalated and has sent military personnel to the area. The death tolls are now up to five civilians and thousands injured. In Peru, the conflicts surrounding the mining industry have been numerous, and a large part of the country's surface area is affected and threatened by mining exploitation. What does this have to do with the Swedish AP funds? Well, the Swedish AP Funds – First, Second and Seventh – have all invested in this company with a value of SEK 214 million. It was also the company's main owner, Grupo México, who was responsible for the environmental disaster we saw in Mexico in August 2014, when 40 000 cubic metres of toxic mining waste leaked into the river and 20 000 people lost their drinking water. AP funds' investment in Southern Copper Corporation can be strongly questioned on the basis of ethical and environmental considerations, not least due to the threat to Peru's local population and its opportunities for clean water and a sustainable environment. The question is whether it is there that Swedish pension money does the most good for a better world. Several European pension funds have in recent years withdrawn or blacklisted companies that contribute to illegal settlements in Israel. For example, in 2014 the Norwegian Oil Fund blacklisted two settlement companies, Africa Israel Investments and Danya Cebus, for contributing to serious violations of individual rights in war or conflict through the construction of settlements in East Jerusalem. The Swedish Ministry for Foreign Affairs has carried out a review of investment measures with bearing on the occupied territories of Israel. It notes that different actors make different assessments of investments in companies linked to Israel's occupation. However, the government has been reluctant to use the various instruments available to ensure that the AP funds do not invest in illegal settlements. The Ministry for Foreign Affairs has gathered the most frequently asked questions about Sweden's trade agreements with Israel and Palestine in the document Trade with Israel and Palestine. The government makes certain recommendations on investment in settlements. But we in the Left Party believe that these are too vague. There is currently a lack of a regulatory framework that ensures that Swedish companies and investors do not engage in illegal settlements, and there are no clear directives in the area of Swedish AP funds. The government should therefore work towards drafting proposals prohibiting the AP funds from engaging in economic cooperation in the form of trade and investment with illegal settlements in Israel. It is also clear that the governance of the AP funds needs to be changed, as their holdings affect everyone's future. These are huge amounts invested in increased fossil emissions and thus have an extremely negative impact on the climate. Instead, this money should be used for investments in energy conversion and renewable energy. It is time to develop targets for AP funds' renewable energy holdings and commission them to start phasing out their holdings in companies that have invested in fossil energy sources. We see that the Second AP Fund has taken steps in the right direction, but clear governance is required for it to have an impact in all AP funds. The responsibility for reviewing the investments of the AP funds lies today with an ethical council, whose operations are managed and financed by the funds themselves. The Left Party believes that an independent council should be set up to keep an eye on investment by the AP funds, so that they are made with respect for the environment and human rights. The Government's letter also shows that AP Funds' costs continue to increase sharply, despite the fact that the Finance Committee has repeatedly pointed out the importance of reducing costs in handling previous years' letters. In 2014, administrative costs increased by as much as 12.9 per cent. I think it is weak for the Committee on Finance not to be stronger in its criticism of the increased administrative costs. What other activity could increase its costs by 12.9% without there being a crisis in the Committee on Finance or in the general political debate? Could health insurance, health care or childcare do so? I am very doubtful about that. According to the letter, AP Funds paid out SEK 14.5 million in variable remuneration to their employees in 2014. According to the Government's guidelines on terms and conditions of employment in the AP Funds, the funds may not pay variable remuneration to senior executives. On the other hand, it is allowed to pay bonuses to other employees. In my view and in the opinion of the Left Party, these variable remunerations risk leading to speculation and increased risks in the management of the funds. For this reason, this type of variable remuneration in the AP Funds should be prohibited. It is time for the committee to act strongly against the cost developments we see in the funds. It is not reasonable for costs to rise so sharply year after year without the problems being addressed. We assume that the management of AP funds' operations will be developed in the current review. In mid-June 2015, the Ministry of Finance presented the Ministry of Finance's memorandum Proposal for new regulation for the AP funds. It proposes to reduce the current five buffer funds to three. The funds, which are public authorities, should be called First – Third AP Fund Authorities. We also think that many of the proposals that have been presented have drawn inspiration from the policy pursued by the Left Party. The administration of the AP Funds shall be coordinated and one of the Funds shall be entrusted with the operation of a common service centre. We assume that this will follow the government's principle of relocation of new authorities outside Stockholm County. On the one hand, greater responsibility needs to be taken for investments to be sustainable in the long term, and on the other hand, the audit of investments needs to be improved. The costs of the operation of the AP funds must also be reduced. Having said that, I propose that the Government's letter on the activities of the AP Funds be added to the file until 2014. I call for approval of the Left Party Motivation Reserve.
i-Wumc5grN778n8AfyKFmmU7	Mr President, I would like to The Committee on Finance today examines the Government's letter 2014/ 15:130 Accounting for AP Funds' operations up to. 2014. The committee proposes that the Parliament add the letter to the file. I support the proposal in the report and reject the motions. Before I go into the letter, I want to put this with the AP funds in a slightly more understandable context. AP funds manage capital for the general pension, which consists of income pension and premium pension. The First, Second, Third and Fourth AP Funds manage the buffer in the income pension system. This is where capital is brought in in the event of surplus, from which capital is taken in the event of a deficit in pension payments. The Sixth AP Fund is also a buffer fund in the income system, but it is a closed fund. Nothing is taken to or from the fund. The 7th AP Fund differs from the others when it manages capital in the premium pension scheme. The seventh AP Fund's fund portfolio Såfa is a state option in the choice of premium pension fund. It is precisely the activities of the AP funds in relation to pensions that the Committee on Finance is dealing with today. In this context, I would like to mention the public pension system. The general pension scheme consists of income pension and premium pension. Income and premium pensions are entirely independent of the state budget, and the funding is linked to the contributions employers make each month as part of the employee's pension income. In addition, there is the guarantee pension, which is a basic protection for people who are entitled to a pension but have not had sufficient income. It is financed by the State budget and is independent from the income and premium pension scheme. In addition, there are occupational and contract pensions that employees have through their employers, often according to collective agreements. In addition, there is voluntary pension, which can be subscribed for by a private pension saver. Income pension is a distribution system in which this year's contributions from employers are used to pay the pension to the same year's pensioners. Premium pension is the part of the general pension that can be influenced by making choices. Every month, 18.5 per cent of employees' pensionable income is paid by the employer. Now to today's case and the Parliament's position. As I said, we have examined the government's letter on the activities of the AP funds. Rising stock prices and falling interest rates contributed to the fact that the buffer funds, i.e. the First – Fourth AP Funds and the Sixth AP Fund, reported a profit after expenses of SEK 147 billion in 2014. It is the fourth highest annual result for the funds since the current fund system started in 2001. The result was that the total capital of the funds increased by 127 billion, from 1 058 billion at the end of 2013 to 1 185 billion at the end of 2014. The committee has also looked at developments during the first half of 2015. The Fund's half-yearly reports show that the management produced a result of almost 66 billion. This, too, is a good result, and it increased the total capital by another 55 billion. For the sixth year in a row, payments in the pension system were higher in 2014 than pension contributions. This meant that the buffer funds had to contribute SEK 20.5 billion to cover the deficit. The committee has noted that, since 2009, the buffer funds have transferred more than 100 billion to the pension system in order to secure the ongoing pension payments. The committee has been critical of the cost development of the funds for a long time. The committee notes that management costs rose by SEK 139 million in 2014, to a level of SEK 1,693 million. This corresponds to an increase of 12.9 percent. That is not acceptable, and that is why we welcome the investigation that has now been out for a referral. Mr President, I would like to At the committee's request, the government also reviews the Funds' work on the environment and ethics in the administration every year. This year's letter evaluates the work of the Funds to integrate sustainability issues into the current system with ongoing analysis and management. The committee has stated in the past that integration is one of the most important factors in achieving sustainable management. According to the letter, the integration of the Funds continued in 2014. However, the committee shares the government's view that it is important that the funds continue to prioritise the integration of sustainability into the administration, not least in order to secure the long-term return on pension capital so that we can secure pensions. In June 2015, the Ministry of Finance presented the Memorandum New Rules for the AP Funds. The memorandum proposes, among other things, a ceiling on the costs of the funds and the coordination of the management of the funds in different ways. It is also proposed to remove the exemptions of the Funds from State audit. The memorandum was sent for referral, and the period of referral expired last month. We assume that the government will come back to the issue once the referrals have been compiled, so that we can have good investment rules in the future.
i-e9721325013adbdf-41	Mr President, I would like to We are therefore dealing with the FiU6 report, which deals with a government letter on the activities of the AP funds. Perhaps I would have liked the Green Party to be here today, because it would have been interesting to discuss these issues with the Green Party in the light of the current debate. This is an annual matter and its purpose is to report the activities of the AP Funds. The AP funds managing the buffer capital intend to contribute to the pension system, i.e. act as a buffer and replenish the pension system if the pension contributions are not sufficient for the commitments available for pension payments. The intention is not therefore that the activities of the AP Funds should be a place of thumb for ambitious politicians to use for various policy objectives and projects. Nor is buffer capital intended to change the world. However, this does not mean that it should conflict with developments. AP Funds' operations have a clear mission to manage buffer capital for the long-term benefit of the pension system. It has to be said, however, that it has managed relatively well to function precisely as a pension buffer – since 2001, capital has increased by 647 billion or 5.3 per cent per year. During the same period, the income index, which forms the basis for the listing of the pension obligation, has increased by 3.1 per cent. This means that the surplus could be said to have increased capital by 327 billion during this period. The results of the funds have thus contributed to the financing and sustainability of the pension system. Only in 2014 has the result shown a surplus of 147 billion and a capitalisation of 127 billion. This means that the buffer capital at the beginning of 2015 amounted to 1 185 billion. The difference between surplus and capitalisation of EUR 20.5 billion of the return on buffer capital is thus the contribution to the pension system in 2014. Without this addition, the pension brake would have been imposed. We therefore have reason to be grateful for the good activities of the AP funds. This has meant that pensioners have been able to maintain purchasing power, and it is for the benefit of all of us. It has been to the benefit of pensioners and the tax community that AP funds have managed to maintain a good business and show a good return. To a large extent, this is due to a clear demarcation between political governance and independent management with the aim of best possible returns for long-term benefit to the pension system. Of course, given the non-minor capital of the AP funds, management must be exemplary through responsible investment and ownership for sustainable development. But there is no contradiction in this. Of course, the return is largely based on a favourable asset development, to say the least. Massive incentives, not least from central banks around the world, have benefited asset values in, for example, real estate markets, and stock market values have risen sharply. Under these conditions, it may have simplified an activity with high-level targets on returns. In the light of this, the cost of administration could possibly be discussed. If the result had been achieved under other conditions with less favourable conditions, the compensation for the result would have been difficult to question. Under the circumstances, it can be discussed. However, it must be said that the development of costs cannot be isolated solely from the activities of the AP funds. It is more likely to be an indication of what the conditions are in a broader perspective of this particular market. It is easy to see that the AP funds have to relate to the prevailing conditions in the market in which they are located, which of course does not mean that they are free from responsibility to ensure and counteract the development of administrative costs, but to drain themselves completely on their human capital. This is an issue we are likely to come back to. It is also an issue on which we in the committee have had opinions for quite a long time. Of course, you have to realize that it cannot be done in an easy way. However, there are expectations of the AP funds that strategies will be developed and that cost awareness will prevail. Mr President, I would like to The return on buffer capital has made a major contribution to a more sustainable pension system. The purpose of the activities of the AP Funds has been to contribute to a buffer that can replenish the pension system when the commitment is greater than the contributions. Since 2001, the AP funds have been precisely what they were intended to be, a buffer in the pension system. Let us therefore hope that they also continue to be just that. With this, Mr President, I propose that the letter be added to the file.
i-e9721325013adbdf-53	Mr President, I would like to This is a review report on the so-called Five Presidents' report, which seeks to complete the EU's economic and monetary union. I request that the statement be added to the file. Otherwise, I will comment on the two specific opinions on the matter. When there is an EU document to the House that is so interesting that it can spark debate in society and have a public interest in many, there is a value in having the House examine, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, for debate on the issues in question. This particular report meets all the criteria for this. It is the President, usually with the bureaux of each committee, who decides whether it should be an audit report. Mr President, I would like to As I said, the report was produced by the five Presidents of the European Commission, the Council, the Eurogroup, the European Parliament and the European Central Bank. The concrete proposals are to deepen cooperation in the economic and monetary field through existing instruments primarily for the euro area countries. But we also suspect that there is reason to assume that it will affect countries outside EMU. What do you want? Firstly, we want to create what we call an economic union, which covers issues such as the creation of a competitiveness authority in each country. It shall assess the sustainability of wage developments in the country and the impact of policies on competitiveness. Furthermore, the macroeconomic imbalances procedure should be strengthened, i.e. when a country has major problems with its economy. The European Commission wants to carry out an annual review of the economies of the euro area countries. This is already being done today, but we want to deepen and extend the so-called European semester. Finally, as far as economic union is concerned, we want more binding coordination for the euro area countries in terms of labour market rules, competitiveness and the business environment. Mr President, I would like to Secondly, we want to establish a financial union. In particular, it is important to complete the Banking Union by, among other things, fully financing the so-called Resolution Fund. It is further argued that the Banking Union requires a single deposit fund. Thirdly, it seeks to create a fiscal union and proposes a financial policy council at EU level to coordinate and complement Member States' own fiscal councils. Furthermore, it wants a macroeconomic stabilisation function, that is to say, the EU should work in a more systematic way to counter macro-economic shocks in individual Member States and at an early stage go in and support. Mr President, I would like to Last but not least, we want a political union with deeper parliamentary participation. What is interesting in this context is that it only applies to the European Parliament. We do not talk about the national parliaments, which we in committee regret. It will be very difficult to have a real dialogue if it is only to apply to the European Parliament, which is certainly a elected group but which may have a slightly different perspective from what we have in the national parliaments. The aim is to strengthen the role of the European Parliament in matters relating to monetary union. Finally, it also wants a comprehensive international representation from the euro area and the consolidation of EMU. The Stability Mechanism, the Euro Plus Pact and more apply only to the euro area countries. In addition, a second stage proposes a kind of EU-level finance department which would also apply only to the euro area countries. Mr President, I would like to The report also gives an account of the Committee's position on similar questions relating to the EMU area. It is of great importance that the Member States cooperate with confidence, both in the euro area countries and in the non-EMU countries. It is of great importance that there should not be a division of the European Union. The committee also believes that one should first ensure that existing regulations work and use them and not start by creating new regulations. The communication contains a number of proposals which this House will never be able to support. This applies, in particular, to measures which would more or less wipe out the decision-making powers of the Member States over economic policies. The committee would like to see clear national responsibility through cooperation with other countries and not entirely hand over key decisions on economic policy to another level. It is at national level that economic policy choices should finally be made and implemented under effective parliamentary participation and with real accountability. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to comment on the specific opinions. As far as the majority of these opinions are concerned, it is difficult to understand why they disagree with the views of the majority. I can understand SD's criticism that Sweden should request an exemption from EMU. There may be differences of opinion on this, but otherwise this dissenting view is very much in line with what the committee says. The dissenting opinion of the Left Party confuses me somewhat. It is critical that some countries have chosen to cooperate with the euro area countries, and it criticises the euro countries for doing so. I think it is the big brother of a rare kind, Mr President. It would be better to think about how we in our Parliament can ensure that we develop the EU's cooperation so that we do not move towards a federalist approach. I just came from an economic conference in Luxembourg, and the federative elements were clear. This House agrees that we do not want any more federalism. That is why we should be clear that we do not want it. It is sad that we cannot have a unanimous view without having to crank a little bit about the fact that you dislike EMU very badly and therefore have a different view. That is regrettable, Mr President.
i-e9721325013adbdf-79	Mr President, I would like to Following the report on the completion of the EU's Economic and Monetary Union (EMU), the Swedish Democrats submitted a special opinion to the Committee on Finance. I would like to further develop our view of the report and its content. The report sets out a two-stage plan of measures to provide EMU with four mutually complementary pillars in the form of an economic, financial, fiscal and political union. The report reads that the Banking Union should be completed and a more common decision-making process in the euro area on national economic and budgetary policy issues and that a so-called stabilisation function should be established. The establishment of a permanent presidency of the Eurogroup is another matter proposed, together with more binding requirements and a common finance department. Mr President, I would like to We defend the right to self-determination. That is why we are critical of further initiatives to centralise and federalise economic policy in the EU. Sweden should declare that we intend to remain outside the Banking Union. Similarly, we should highlight binding convergence requirements and the establishment of a stabilisation function. Such a function would only result in additional transfers between countries. As we all know, the EU budget already has too much of this Robin Hood policy through membership fees. Moreover, a stabilisation function would give even more control to EMU over domestic fiscal policy. I have to say that this is a very worrying development we are now seeing where the EU machine is taking more power in the area by area in country after country at the expense of national budgets. The Swedish Democrats defend the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, and we assume that they are respected by all parties. That is why we should also highlight the creation of a single finance department. The principled starting point of the report by the Swedish democrats is considerably complicated by the fact that both current and previous governments have consistently refused to negotiate a formal derogation for Sweden to join the monetary union. When one of our members of the EU Board raised the issue a few weeks ago, the Prime Minister said that it is a total non-issue and that it would be ridiculous if Sweden wanted a formal derogation such as Denmark and the United Kingdom. Mr President, I would like to Believe it or not, I have not been the most vocal European critic in our party. But every day that passes and the more I read, the more I am appalled by the development. The influence of the individual citizen over his or her own life is decreasing while the EU's power is increasing. One example is Portugal, where the current government lost the election to an EU-critical left-wing majority but refuses to give up power on the grounds that they are against the EU. The attitude of President Jean-Claude of the European Commission towards free elections is also clear. These are his own words:- There is no democratic election when it comes to the EU Treaty. ..................................................... Is this a Europe that we want? Is that the future that we are moving towards? This is a process going on behind closed doors day in and day out. It is clear that it is trying to make the EU and EMU some form of power policy heavyweight on the global playing field: a nation, a currency and a Union. But with everything that's going on in the world around us, big power ambitions aren't what we need more of. At the same time, the message from the Swedes is crystal clear: we do not want your European superstate. Only 15% would vote in favour of the euro as a currency, according to a survey by SCB in May. Although some forces in this House are working hard to get rid of Sweden's self-determination, we, as representatives of the people, should give the Swedes an opportunity to express their opinion through a referendum on EMU. I have no hope of convincing anyone in this House with my speech, but those of you who are looking at this can be sure of one thing. The Swedish Democrats will always be a guarantor of the most important democratic principle: All public power should be based on the people.
i-e9721325013adbdf-96	Mr President, I would like to Dennis Dioukarev has some comments that should be addressed. There is a proposal for a President of the euro area countries. The euro area countries must be left to decide this for themselves. It does not affect us as long as we are outside the euro. The Swedish Democrats are calling for a referendum on EMU. We have had one, and the Swedish people clearly said no. What are we going to vote on and why? It is possible that more people are against EMU now than then. I don't know, but it could happen. The Swedish Democrats demand that we remain outside the Banking Union. We do, and at the moment there are no plans to enter the Banking Union. On the day it does, we will have to take a position on it in this House. There's nothing to be done straight up and down. You also criticise the stabilisation mechanism. Yes, there is reason to criticise parts of the stabilisation mechanism, particularly as regards the federal elements. But which country would do without the help of other countries on the day that they have problems with so-called macro-economic shocks, that is, major problems with their own economy? That's all I think is illogical. When Sweden had its big economic crisis it was clear that we got a lot of help from outside, although it became a debt for us, of course. As far as closed doors are concerned, I would say that the Swedish Parliament is much more closed than the institutions of the European Union. The Commission is closed and the Swedish Government is also closed, but the European Parliament is much more open than the Swedish Parliament.
i-e9721325013adbdf-103	Mr President, I would like to I understand that Börje Vestlund would like to question our criticism and move the focus away from the real main problem, namely that the EU takes decisions over the heads of the Swedes while the Social Democracy gives its silent consent, or as the Prime Minister put it: it is a total non-issue. I put the question back to Börje Vestlund: why are you Social Democrats not being honest in your rhetoric to the voters and telling them about your relatively positive attitude towards Europe and EMU?
i-e9721325013adbdf-105	Mr President, I would like to We are in favour of Europe, but, as with most other phenomena in our society, we are critical when there is a reason for it. As far as the federative elements of the European Union are concerned, we are critical. There is also a large majority in this House. What we are not critical of is cooperation at European level. We have always defined Europe as intergovernmental cooperation. I'll take the EMU thing too. No, we have not requested any derogation for the simple reason that there is no indication today that the EU would force Sweden into EMU in the coming years. Let me put it this way: there are enough countries in line to enter EMU, so I do not think there is a great danger that Sweden will be forced into EMU in the foreseeable future. On that day, I guess we'll have to discuss it. It is not the case that the Prime Minister or any other minister goes to Brussels or wherever one has meetings and says yes and amen to every proposal. We have rather advanced conclusions where it is very clear when we have a different view of the European Union from time to time. When we agree, it is on matters on which we are fairly agreed. It concerns trade policy, competitiveness issues and now also energy issues – things where we gain from cooperating. On the other hand, if you start interfering in economic policy, it will be wrong.
i-e9721325013adbdf-110	Mr President, I would like to Mr Vestlund says that several countries are entering EMU. I can only regret that. He also says that we can discuss this later, but the problem is here and now. I know that political action is not the strength of the Social Democrats, but it is at least the strength of the Swedish Democrats. I do not understand the squabble from the speaker's seat right now.
i-e9721325013adbdf-112	Mr President, I would like to The people you would really like to debate with today are the European Commission or one of the five men behind this report. For it is these men who are behind the extremely federalist proposals that are being put on the table when the EU and EMU are in crisis in their foundations. It is based on the description that EMU has not been completed and that it is therefore necessary to implement even more supranationality. My analysis is clear: the EU and EMU lack the ability to solve the challenges we face, as they are trapped in their neoliberal project of shifting power away from people and closer to big business in Europe. Although we as parties have quite different views on the EU and EMU, today we will be quite close to each other, because no Swedish party wants a more federalist Europe or a United States of Europe. That is why it seems to me that it is the Commission that should stand here and defend its report. In 2003, the Swedish people took Sweden's wisest economic decision: not to join EMU. It has proved time and again that Sweden's ability to cope with the financial crisis has been better because we have had decision-making power at home and not in Frankfurt. Unfortunately, the financial crisis has also shown that those of us who stood on the 'no' side of the EMU referendum time and again have been right in our prophecies about what might happen. The Greeks know better than any other people the answer to that question. But it is not only in Greece that poverty is spreading in Europe. Europe's right-wing politicians are trying to starve citizens out of the crisis, which has proved to be the wrong medicine. The prize today is poverty and social unrest. Last year, the OECD presented statistics showing that inequality in Europe has increased significantly. It also stated that social expenditure and investment should be directed towards those most in need. Furthermore, it was said that general cuts in welfare transfer systems should be avoided. It shows that the OECD has also seen that the current right-wing policy has destroyed a well-being that used to work. When welfare is destroyed, it is clear that women in particular are affected. Women's rights are in decline in the EU. We see a clear tendency for austerity policies to shift gender equality back to the 50s. In the wake of the euro zone's demands for cuts, precarious employment, forced part-time work and discrimination in the labour market follow. Many women depend on jobs in the public sector and are therefore twice affected when they are dismantled. Women are allowed to take more responsibility for unpaid work. They are forced to stop working or go down part-time to take care of children, the elderly or the sick when preschool and elderly care are dismantled. The Left Party believes that a very effective way of counteracting this would be for the EU simply to change from today's austerity suit to an investment suit. Public sector investment is a prerequisite for freeing women up to participate in the labour market, both in the public and private sectors, and for economic freedom and greater opportunities to influence their lives. What, then, is the EU's response to the fact that EMU has led to the country's economy being fucked up? More supranational power, more federalism and less democracy. It starts a little cautiously in a first step by increasing market harmonisation, but is doing well in a second step with its own finance minister and its own finance department. An attempt is being made to form the economic state of the European Union. The report contains very far-reaching proposals to deepen EU cooperation. Major steps are being taken towards greater supranationality and power is being shifted from Member States to the EU. That is why I am strongly critical of the report's proposal. The problems in the euro area cannot be solved by reducing the decision-making power of national parliaments over fiscal policy. supranational solutions prevent individual Member States from taking the necessary decisions on the basis of their own circumstances. As countries' conditions and challenges are different, there are imbalances in their economies. These cannot be solved by a federal approach; that is the wrong way to go. Several of the report's proposals today contain question marks. How is the competitiveness of the countries strengthened by the acquisition of competitiveness authorities by all countries? What does it mean for our cooperation in the Nordic-Baltic constituency of the IMF if the EU is to speak with more joint representation? What does it mean to set up a common finance department for the EU? What power, then, is being transferred from the national Member States? In my opinion, it is important that the competence of the Member States is not further reduced. The measures proposed in the report increase the EU's influence. Basic powers will be transferred from the Member States and Treaty changes will be necessary if this is to be implemented. In Sweden, we have three good points of reference in our Nordic neighbours to compare us with when it comes to the EU and EMU. Norway is not with the EU, Denmark is in the EU but not EMU and Finland is in EMU. The Finns are fighting hard today with the policy of the new bourgeois, racist government, which has meant that Europe's austerity policy has also come to Finland. Denmark has four exceptions to EU cooperation included in its agreement. One of these is that Denmark does not have to join EMU. The United Kingdom also has such an exception, but in practice Sweden has signed up for us to join EMU one day, by signing the Treaty of Lisbon without exception. The Swedish side has never demanded an exception. I think that is mainly because we have had a lot of EMU-positive politicians in power. This demand has never been formulated against the EU despite the fact that the Swedish people actually said no in a referendum in 2003. Now that the right-wingers of Europe want to deepen EMU even more than before, it is high time that we, as politicians, lived up to the people's demand for an exception, because that is to respect the results of the referendum. A Swedish exception to EMU is therefore needed. It is good that, even though Sweden is not part of EMU, we are debating this report here today in Parliament. There needs to be a broad debate and the involvement of national parliaments in the discussions on a future EMU. Although democratic legitimacy has never been the European parade, it is a central issue that must be the focus of change. If one is to highlight something that is positive in the report, it is precisely that the power of the European Parliament would be strengthened in relation to other European institutions. Unfortunately, however, there has been a complete failure to lift the parliaments of the Member States.
i-e9721325013adbdf-132	Mr President, I would like to I think there is reason to correct some things that are almost taken out of the air. First of all, Håkan Svenneling says that there is too little of a wealth policy and that kind of policy in Europe. I think everyone can agree with that after this year. But then he criticises the need for investment. I believe that in any case Fredrik Schulte and I do not recognise that picture, because we have had major debates on this in committee during the whole of last year, when we were in the investment fund. There are many things to say about it, and one can, of course, criticise it in different ways. However, I do not believe that there is any doubt that the focus of the European debate has changed. Secondly, Håkan Svenneling says – it is a prejudice that is thrown away among those who dislike the EU a lot, especially on the left – that the right-wingers in Europe would like to integrate the EU and, above all, EMU even more. What evidence is there for this? The right-wingers want it. However, I just came from an EU conference on economic policy, and not many on the left did not share exactly the same view. In fact, I dare to say that the big difference in whether or not there was criticism was whether or not you were an EMU country was an EMU country. There goes the dividing line – hardly between right and left. In the Swedish delegation, we were quite in agreement on this very point. That was the view from both the right and the left. I wonder what is actually being criticised in this report and, above all, in the opinion of the majority.
i-e9721325013adbdf-136	Mr President, I would like to We in the Left Party have chosen to give a special opinion because we think that the criticism of the majority in the committee is good in some respects but is not strong enough. It is not sharp enough against the very clear federalist proposal that will lead to increased supranationality, away from the citizens and to the European Union. I do not think that the statements I have made have been taken out of the air, but I think there are clear examples from Europe of how a austerity policy has been pursued for a long time. I do not share Mrs Vestlund's view that simply because a European investment fund has been set up that has barely been put in the water, policies in Europe have changed. I still think that we clearly see a European right-wing policy in the EU as well as in the EMU area. It forgets to build a strong well-being and increase women's participation in the labour market. It would have greater effects. We would have even 20 times greater effects if women's participation in the labour force was as high as men's, compared with, for example, the TTIP agreement with the United States. I think this shows that we are still locked in a austerity policy rather than a policy that invests for a future Europe. Börje Vestlund also points out that around Europe there are left-wing and social-democratic parties who also think that one should have a more federalist direction. That's partly right. The debate on the EU and EMU differs considerably between the 28 EU Member States, and there are very different views on the direction to be taken. But many of the left-wing couples who act in countries that are members of EMU, I believe, see the major challenges facing them. I think that Greece and the left party of Syriza are the clearest example of this. You realize you're trapped in a system. Leaving EMU and the euro behind might be the best thing, but it would create so many other consequences that you cannot do so. The Greeks go and vote, but in practice the policy is decided in Brussels.
i-e9721325013adbdf-141	Mr President, I would like to The last point I would strongly object to. In view of the fact that I was at the conference and Syriza was there, I can say that they welcome the enhanced cooperation. It is not that they want to remain outside the euro and do not want to cooperate, but they want more cooperation. The best example is Syriza in Greece. That is why it is a little difficult to understand that it would be about right-wing and left-wing politics, when it is really about: if you are in the system you have a critical attitude to the EU and EMU or you are in and applaud every single measure. As far as investment is concerned, it is clear that criticism can be made. The problem is that if you make a decision in principle in the autumn – the last decisions were made in the autumn – it may be reasonable that investments have not been started. True, it hasn't gotten started. It will probably get going forcefully this year. Of course, there are examples of cuts in welfare. At the same time, I find it very difficult to understand the argument that if you have a crisis in a country, then you should touch everything but not just the welfare. That brings investment, infrastructure and innovation to this, all the things that are important to highlight. Finally, Mr President, I have to say that I am somewhat hesitant about Håkan Svenneling's claim that the public sector would be the one that would take women out of unemployment. I think it's a strange idea that women could only work in the public sector or mainly work in the public sector, so as not to tip it too much.
i-e9721325013adbdf-146	Mr President, I would like to What I'm thinking, Börje Vestlund, is rather: What choice does Syriza have in Greece? What other opportunities do we have than to ask for solidarity and enhanced cooperation as a matter of urgency, rather than to step off? The EMU project is just as solid in its foundation. This is why the Greek economy has not been able to adapt to the current economic conditions, and therefore it is not possible to step off when a crisis is coming out. The fundamentals mean that there is no choice but to be in favour of greater European cooperation. Börje Vestlund also raises investment policy and recognises somewhere that there are political decisions taken to leave austerity policy and move towards an investment policy. But the conclusion seems to be that it is rather Börje Vestlund's hope that Europe is now starting to invest and pursue a different policy. I also hope that this is the case, but we have not seen the results yet. I fully understand that political decisions take time to give effect. But I think that Europe's leading politicians have some left to deliver. With regard to women's participation in the labour market, I am certainly not in favour of women working only in the public sector – and I did not say that either. What I said was that the public sector has a central role to play in women's lives in order for women to be able to have a high participation rate, so that they can leave children in preschool and be able to leave Grandma and Grandpa at the care of the elderly without having to be carers, women need a strong public sector, so that they can participate in working life, both in the private and in the public sector. Therefore, the public sector is central to women's labour force participation.
i-e9721325013adbdf-149	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for our reservation to be approved. Sweden is one of the world's most equal countries. Of course, we should be proud of that. Despite this, women and men face differences in the labour market. Although men take greater responsibility at home now than before, more women are responsible for unpaid domestic work. Women are on average paid less than men. Women are also over-represented in sick leave. Eliminating prejudices and structures that prevent an equal society is an issue that the Moderates take very seriously. Where the government chooses ways of coercion and quotas, the Moderates choose to create the conditions for parents to take responsibility for themselves and find solutions that suit their own family. Legislation on a third father's month does not solve any problems; on the contrary, it risks strengthening the image that equality issues are only about amended laws and rules. We do not think it is a good idea to try to force a change in the behaviour of all mothers and fathers against their will through various forms of decrees from the government and parliament. The distribution of parental leave is a matter for the family. Families want everyday life, not more political pointers. I want to make it clear that I have nothing against a third, a fourth, a fifth and a sixth father month and so on as long as it comes from each family's own wishes. The situation is very different for different families and therefore the solutions are different. I also miss the children's perspective in this discussion on the part of the government. The inspection of social security, IFAU and the Ombudsman for Children and Others states that the proposal may result in a shorter period of time for the child to be taken together with the parents in cases where, in particular, fathers do not increase their parental benefit. This applies in particular to the tenth of children whose father has not today taken out parental benefit at the age of eight. If this is the effect of the proposal, it may mean that the mother may either extend unpaid parental leave or, at worst, reduce the child's total time with the parents. Let me also make it clear that there is a major social problem linked to the uneven distribution of parental benefit. We know that the differences in withdrawals have far-reaching consequences for women's employment, wage developments and future pension income, and there are clear indications that these differences also play a role in the differences we see in ill health and absenteeism between women and men. At the same time, one must have respect for how different families spend their time outside the workplace. From a political point of view, we should focus on creating opportunities for women to have access to the labour market on equal terms with men. This work must always be done in school, in the workplace and in opinion-forming. What Sweden now needs is an equal working line. We know that the labour market is largely changing. The boundaries between work and leisure are blurred, and what was previously a simple defined working day with a fixed time is replaced by new requirements for connectivity and accessibility. While the boundaries between working time and leisure time are being blurred, new demands are being made on how we must look at and work on gender equality, health and safety and social security issues. In times when reforms need to be increased for women in the labour market, the government is doing the opposite. The fact that the government is now evading the RUT deduction, which is the reform that has created thousands of jobs for women and has also facilitated the everyday puzzles of many families, is a step in the wrong direction. The fact that the government has also announced in its budget that it intends to abolish the gender equality bonus, which creates incentives for parents to share equal responsibility, is another example. The government is raising taxes and abolishing reforms that make it more profitable to work, and that is also the wrong way to go if you want to increase women's participation in the labour market. Reducing profitability in going to work does not create more incentives to work. That goes without saying. It is directly harmful and counteracts an equal line of work. We propose encouraging parents to make an equal withdrawal by further strengthening the gender equality bonus. We want to create financial incentives for parents to share parental benefit more equally. Families with children also want to continue to be able to determine their own family situation. That is why we are strengthening incentives for parents who share equally rather than resort to coercion and quotas. Instead, the government chooses to abolish the gender equality bonus, which encourages a more even withdrawal of insurance. Removing incentives for a more balanced parental responsibility is not the way to go. Instead, the equality bonus should be strengthened. However, in order for more parents to use the bonus, the information needs to be improved, as the Social Insurance Agency's own evaluation showed that the parents lack sufficient knowledge to know what it means financially and how and when the bonus is paid. The solution to lack of information cannot be to remove carrots and encouragement for mothers and fathers to share equally. To all the mothers and fathers who listen, I'd like to say, the Moderates believe in you. We believe in your ability to look after the best interests of your children rather than politicians. We believe in your ability to take parental responsibility on the basis of your circumstances. Mr President, I would like to With our policy, we want to contribute to good conditions for family freedom, financial security, time together, choices in childcare and equality between parents. We also believe that the basis for a more equal labour market is laid by an improved equality bonus, the opportunity for more people to enter working time, a policy that facilitates people's life puzzles and reforms that make it more profitable to work.
i-KQpqdCUTjw26NyYMNWHBw	Mr President, I would like to We are debating today's SfU5 report on the Government proposal 2014/ 15:124 A more equal parental allowance. I had, in my opinion, a grand political idea. Wouldn't it be good and fair if everyone had the same thing? Would it not be good if all people shared everything so that there were no differences? No differences in burdens and no differences in financial means or standard of living. In my head, I began to figure out what a system like this could look like. On the whole, I came to the conclusion that it's quite simple. Politicians only decide to share, and it'll work out. Then everyone will be equally happy and satisfied. All income and expenses are shared. You share everything with coercion. That's easy. I didn't really get as far as the parental allowance in my mind, but if I had got there, I would probably have thought that a third father's month was a silly step along the way. Why not share 50 - 50 at once? But I didn't really get that far, as I said. I happened to mention the whole thing to my blessed father, who, by the way, was an active Social Democrat. I got a long lesson about what communism has done in the world and why that kind of detailed control of people, to correct what you think is unfair, is a very bad idea. Then it is better to create a society which guarantees a fair minimum, even for the weakest, and which otherwise allows people to control their daily lives as much as possible. I was 12 then, if I remember correctly. I was 12 the day I stopped being a socialist. These are socialist ideas that are at issue here, or if you want to be really kind – and I can be – a somewhat less extreme ideological cousin. The socialist idea of quotaing parental insurance at all and extending this obligation by another month, as we are talking about today, runs counter to the will of citizens, parents. It is a view of the citizens as pieces of the puzzle, the position and role of which politicians have free access. It is a view of the family that is a direct mockery of people's ability and right to arrange their own lives in the way that suits them best. It is a blow to the children, whose chances of a good upbringing in a safe and harmonious family are in danger of being greatly impaired by the blind and almost rude attitude that politicians have better knowledge than the family in terms of what is best for each child and each unique family. Apart from the fact that this is highly questionable from a moral point of view, it also directly contradicts a large majority of the people and their views on the matter. What do you think is the best way to distribute parenting days? That question asked the opinion institute Sentio in a survey last spring. The answer options were that parents can decide for themselves how they want to divide the days between themselves or that politicians legislate on how the days are to be distributed. More than 88 percent said that they think that the parents should be allowed to decide for themselves – just over 88 percent. Barely 12% think it is the politicians' task to decide. Conditions are recognized from other studies of the same kind. A crushing majority is against quotas for parental insurance at all. A third father's month is likely to be even more opposed, simply because it is an ideologically conditioned pill in adult everyday puzzles. I am surprised that the red-green bloc seems to have managed to create a majority for such a proposal in Parliament. I sincerely hope that their voters will see this. The vast majority of them are against the proposal. Needless to say, the Liberals are even more surprised when they announce that they intend to support further coercion of parental days. I think I need to go home and read a little bit about liberalism. I don't seem to have understood anything. I thought that liberalism meant the pursuit of a fairly high degree of individual freedom and a relatively low degree of state interference in individual people's everyday lives. I also believe that more people than I have got a few things wrong with liberalism, certainly many of the people's party's voters. Mr President, I would like to Parental insurance should and must be fully dequotad. A first step in the right direction is that I hereby request the approval of Amendments Nos 1 and 3.
i-e9721325013adbdf-173	Mr President, I would like to As I have said, the report we are now dealing with concerns the issue of quota parental insurance. The basis is four important principles. The first is that children are entitled to their parents. The second is that parents should benefit from sharing parental leave. The third is that the everyday puzzle for the parents and the family should be able to work. And the last, but certainly not least important, is that parental insurance should also be equal. The proposal now on the table does not meet one of the four requirements. It could have been demanded of the government. The government simply removes part of the whole of parental insurance, which is a very complicated system. Instead, we need a parliamentary inquiry that looks at the whole of parental insurance, which can solve the four demands that can be made on it and which gives future parents the opportunity to feel secure in parental insurance. I will now turn to the Minister and say, "Do it again! Do the right thing! Let us begin with the first principle that children are entitled to their parents. It is about security, identification and to see what everyday life children have. Yeah, you know all that. In this context, it is also important to see that there are more family patterns. There's not just a mother and a father. In fact, there are more adults close to the children who serve as parents. They also have the right to be involved. So it is not a question of two parents sharing parental leave. At the same time, the government writes, as a piece of wood, that one should review what other family constellations look like. Then why is this part being pulled out? Why can't you see the bigger picture? The second important principle is that parents should share parental leave and benefit from it. We know that the economy plays an extremely important role in terms of who should be at home with the child and taking parental leave. The Moderates also just mentioned that our pension system means that we should work towards better pensions. If you take longer parental leave and then shorten your working hours for many years, you lose pension rights. You don't have the opportunity to step up in your career, and you get less wage development. Everything is negative for those who take longer parental leave. But income is also livelihood. This means that it is unfair for those who take more parental leave. This proposal proposes a further month's quota. What happens if the father can't take out that month? Who loses? Is it the child, or is it the parents who lose? What does the unequal take-off actually cost society, in terms of unpaid work, that fewer women run businesses, that we get an unequal distribution of power and influence in society and economic independence? There are many areas in which society but also parents lose out. We need much more research to see what we benefit from sharing parental leave. The third principle applies to the everyday puzzle. It is important to make the everyday puzzle go together. We center parties believe that at home in the kitchen you should sit and think about how to solve it and how it will be good for everyone, both children and adults in the environment. Then it is important to look at the fact that quotaing, as I said, does not just solve the economy and wages. If I understand correctly, LO does not want to increase the salaries of women so that parents can share parental leave more equally. No, the gender equality bonus plays a very important role in this context. After all, it enables those with the lowest incomes to get into work and thus get a carrot to share parental leave with those who earn more. That is why the equality bonus should of course be increased and also covered by the vab, we mean from the Center Party. We want to see a more even withdrawal of parental insurance. It is important that the everyday puzzle goes together when you sit at home and plan. It is also important that carrots are built in. It is extremely urgent – and now rich I go back to the Minister – to set up a parliamentary inquiry that takes into account many different aspects of this with parental leave. I wonder whether this proposal has wanted to meet the wishes of the left. Can't it be that the government doesn't want to see the bigger picture of parental insurance? Uncertainty for parents then becomes great, and it is negative. Instead of setting up a one-man inquiry, the government should look at the whole picture and set up a parliamentary investigation reviewing this with the pros and cons of quota, the gender bonus, the vulture, more entrepreneurship parents, minimum-level days and guarantee days, maintenance support and benefit advance, gender equality perspective, holistic approach, simplification and clarifications. I can list all the advantages of this, and then it is not enough for a one-man inquiry to investigate a single proposal. Mr President, I would like to In my view, I am calling for the committee's proposal to be rejected and for our reservation to be approved.
i-e9721325013adbdf-187	Mr President, I would like to When Justin Trudeau, Canada's new Prime Minister, was recently asked why it was so important to have a completely equal government, he replied: Because it is 2015. When asked why it is important to have a completely equal, i.e. individualised, parental insurance in Sweden, my answer is the same: Because it is 2015. However, what we are going to vote on and debate in this House today is not equal parental insurance, unfortunately. The report's name is A more equal parental allowance, and that says something about how we still view parental insurance in 2015. Mr President, I would like to We know that women have a worse position in the labour market than men do. We know that women work more part-time than men. We know that there are women's and men's dominated labour markets. We know that women pay less and, apart from part-time work, they also have more precarious jobs than men. We also know that women receive lower pensions than men. We know it's because women don't earn as much. We know that women take greater responsibility for children and families than men do. We know that, and it is 2015. More than 20 years after the first father month was introduced and quite many years after the second so-called father month was introduced, we are taking another small step forward. It goes with Santa steps. The Left Party wants to take a real step towards gender equality. We believe that now is the time to take a step to make women and men equal in working life and in family life. Mr President, I would like to The discussion and objections to sharing parental insurance on an equal footing have been going on for decades. Some progress has been made with two and now soon three months that cannot be transferred and which is usually called Dad's months. It's always something of course, but it's perhaps just something more equal to the third moon it, but not entirely equal – in nte as long as we don't take the step fully and divide parental insurance into two, three or maybe even four parents. There are also so-called star families. Mr President, I would like to Let people decide for themselves and discuss at home at the kitchen table how to share the days. It's probably the most common objection to individualized insurance. People know what's best for them and their children. Politicians shouldn't interfere. I would like to say to them that parental insurance is a politically determined insurance policy. Politicians have thus decided that it should exist and how it should be designed. When the families sit there at the kitchen table, they actually have a lot of political decisions to take into account when making decisions on what their structure should look like. Of course, they must also take into account how politics has shaped their everyday lives and their reality. In most families, rational decisions are also made based on the reality in which they live. So the one at the kitchen table has a weak position in the labour market and low pay may not have much choice. But the reality we all live in is largely based on other political decisions – or, for that matter, lack of decisions. It is decisions that have led us to have a segregated labour market where women earn less, more often work part-time, more often are ill and more often end up as poor pensioners than men. That is why we politicians should be courageous and make decisions that make it easier for women and men to be treated equally in the labour market and in family life. Mr President, I would like to I recalled a birthday party a couple of years ago. Then there was a question that appeared at the table. Anna, 32 years old and mother of two, raised the question of why, after five years as a parent, she slipped after her husband in wages at $1,000 a month. Before they had children, they both made the same amount of money. Yes, why do you think that is? Finally, I would like to quote from a debate book published in 2004 entitled Whose Choice? On p. 36 there is an argument about freedom of choice, and I quote: The only instrument that governments have to influence how people behave at home at the kitchen table is parental insurance, otherwise families have all the freedom in the world to do exactly what they want. That became a reason to start quotas for parental insurance. The family can make a lot of decisions themselves, but if the decisions lead to something that we cannot accept in the long run, because we do not accept inappropriate pay differences between men and women, then the state must be able to take this step in and influence. ..................................................... Guess who wrote this? Yes, it was Bengt Westerberg. I agree with Bengt Westerberg, but I want to take the full step towards quota and individualised parental insurance. I think that's the right thing to do. Mr President, I would like to I call for the committee's proposal and for reservation 2.
i-e9721325013adbdf-201	Mr President, I would like to There is currently no support among parents for another quota month in parental insurance. Parents want to decide for themselves – they are very clear about that. I think it is reckless of you to ignore parents' wishes for how parental insurance should be distributed. What I miss in your speech, Wiwi- Anne, is the child perspective. Nowhere do you mention it. The Ombudsman for Children, the Social Security Inspection, IFAU and others suggest that this could lead to a shorter time for children to spend together with their parents. If this were to be the effect of the proposal, it could mean either that a parent, probably a mother, would have to take parental leave without compensation or that the child's total time with the parents would be reduced. Where is the child perspective in your discussion? Where is the child perspective when you present this proposal? What do you say to families who do not have the possibility of a further month and where the children lose time with a parent?
i-e9721325013adbdf-204	Mr President, I would like to I thank Tina Ghasemi very much for the question. Tina says there is no support from families with children for individualised parental insurance. She may be referring to the same survey that Linus Bylund previously showed, according to which 88 percent of respondents wanted to decide for themselves. Yeah, I know it looks like that. I can only say that a long time ago there was something called co-taxation. The income of two married persons was added together, and they were taxed. Thus, when one woman went into the labour market, it was often not very much profitable, since her salary was put on top of the other income and was taxed off. And women stayed at home. If there had been a referendum on this, we would certainly still have co-taxation. But courageous politicians wanted to see developments. Women were needed in working life. Women also wanted to enter working life on the same terms as men. Co-taxation was removed. I do not know whether anyone here would like to introduce it again. Then to this eternal battle in the debate, namely the children: Unfortunately, children are often made bats when we discuss parental insurance. Parental insurance is intended for parents to be at home with their children. It goes without saying that we believe that parents make wise decisions. We don't think people would stop making good decisions for their children if you were to individualize parental insurance. Why does Tina Ghasemi think that?
i-e9721325013adbdf-209	Mr President, I would like to I think you have a very strange view of politics, Wiwi- Anne Johansson, particularly on this issue. You think politicians are well placed to control families with children. You want to decide, by force and quota, on the individual family and how to allocate the parental allowance. Rather, the Moderates advocate increasing incentives. We are further strengthening the gender equality bonus to create clear financial incentives for parents to share equally – the bonus that you are now abolishing. Wiwi- Anne Johansson mentions that parental insurance exists for parents to be at home with their children. Yes, absolutely. But parental insurance is also available for children's sake, so that they can have time for the family, have time with their parents. With this proposal, children are at risk of having less time with their parents, and that is the wrong way to go. I still miss the answer to how you cater for the children's perspective, Wiwi- Anne Johansson. I look forward to hearing that.
i-e9721325013adbdf-212	Mr President, I would like to You say that the parents are the ones who can best judge and decide how the children should be, Tina Ghasemi. That's a child's perspective, isn't it? If you now have individualized parental insurance, where two, three or possibly four persons could be legal parents, then they can decide how to do it. Why would individualized parental insurance suddenly suggest that parents would make worse choices for their children? I don't understand that. Why would the parents be home for less time? Why do we not think that men who become parents also want to make good decisions for their children? This is the conditional parenthood. The fact that fathers are to become parents 100 percent is something that is conditional upon, while it is absolutely obvious to women. Sometimes politics has to take precedence. Politics is to want something, to drive something, isn't it? In this case, it is a question of increasing equality. But if you Moderates think it's perfectly okay that women have a worse labour market, more often get to work part-time, have more precarious jobs and thus get very bad pensions, then I can understand that you want to preserve the pattern that led to us having this labour market. I do not think it is fair to say that you are using the children as an accessory and as a bat in the debate. We have very generous parental insurance in Sweden, and it has been political decisions that led to it. Let us now also make it equal!
i-e9721325013adbdf-215	Mr President, I would like to It is fortunate that the Left Party has no more say in this matter! Gender equality is something that the Left Party has really protected and continues to protect, and I very much appreciate that, Wiwi- Anne Johansson. Parental insurance should be equal, and all parties dealing with the children should share parental insurance, both for the sake of the children and for the sake of the adults. What I wonder is how one can want to contribute to the fact that it is women who lose out on this. Wiwi- Anne Johansson said in her speech that women's wages are very low. But this means that parental insurance can be what women lose out on, because as soon as wages are not going to increase? The women are not getting higher wages just because they're introducing another month, are they? If the other party with the right to take parental leave takes the two months that exist today and is forced to take another month, will women not benefit from it in the near future? No, definitely not as long as we are in parliament and not as long as the next generation is in parliament either. You don't change wages so quickly. And then it is the women who pay for this. Does Wiwi- Anne Johansson mean that it is gender equality?
i-e9721325013adbdf-219	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mr Zander for the question, which unfortunately I do not fully understand. Does Solveig Zander mean that women get reduced salary increases because they have a third month that the father should take out? I don't quite understand the point. Is it that the best thing is that you get read, that everything is as it is now, or it's the women who lose? I agree, as Bengt Westerberg said in 2004, that the single most important political measure we can take to strengthen women's positions and rights in the labour market is to make changes in parental insurance. I want to go one step further, to individualised parental insurance, but now we're taking a first step with a third month that you can't hand over and that in most cases a father takes out. I do not understand at all how this would adversely affect equality on the part of women, so I will have to rescind the question.
i-e9721325013adbdf-221	Mr President, I would like to It was very good that Wiwi- Anne said she didn't understand what I meant. There are other proposals for more equality in parental insurance than quotas. This applies, for example, to the gender equality bonus, which makes women's income increase if she went out to work, because she has the lowest income. This means that the gender equality bonus contributes to the fact that there are carrots to share plus that you also look at the woman's income. Should there not be more proposals, such as raising the equality bonus, which is part of the state's participation in paying, if we put it that way? Wiwi- Anne Johansson said in her speech that the state is obliged to take responsibility in this context. Why can't the Left Party and Wiwi- Anne Johansson realise that there are other and more proposals that would increase the equal take-out of our parental insurance?
i-e9721325013adbdf-224	Mr President, I would like to The gender equality bonus has not worked. It has changed at some point and possibly works somewhat better. But we are talking about ant steps in terms of the gender equality bonus. It has played its part. When it comes to the gender equality bonus, you can also think: Why should it be carrots and stuff to get fathers to take their responsibility to be fathers while it is obvious that women take their responsibility? At some point, we have to get away from it. If I have a company and I'm going to hire people, I make rational choices as an entrepreneur when I hire. It's a little more risky with a girl of childbearing age than it is with a guy. So we make rational choices, and that is why the labour market looks like it does. Women miss career paths, get to work part-time and do not get the income development that men get. It's 2015. We know exactly what is causing discrimination in the labour market. Then we must do something about it if we really want to. Otherwise, we'll be able to put on some little patches here and there. Me and the Left Party think it's time for us to take the last step. Then we don't have to do different Kalle Duck patches here and Bamse Band-Aids there. Here we go.
i-e9721325013adbdf-228	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by asking for the reservation to be approved. From what I heard from the debate so far, they sound like it's all about women. Actually, it's about parental insurance. It's just as much about the men. This applies to both men and women. It's almost starting to run a little bit, I think. We're debating a third parent month, or father month as we usually call it. The government will, in the way it looks, get through the proposal because the People's Party has joined the government line, that is, the line of the Social Democrats, the Green Party and also the Left Party, and in this way a majority has been formed for the proposal. I took a cab the other day. The driver went on to try to define the different parties and put his own name on them. I won't tell you what he said about everyone. Nor do I remember what he said about all parties. But when it came to the Christian Democrats, he said: You are the Family Party. I thought it was a very good idea. The importance of family life for most people shows various studies. The Swedish study, which is an annual survey of Swedes' personal values, shows in the latest study from 2014 that The Christian Democrats' family policy programme is about justice, freedom of choice and the possibility of more time together with their children. We welcome the fact that more and more fathers choose to take out their share of parental insurance, which is what happens. Children need to connect with both parents. At the same time, it can be noted that fathers take out significantly less of the parenting days than mothers. But how to share responsibility for the home and parenting days is not a political issue. It must be left to each family to decide for themselves. That is where the dividing line goes between the Left Government, the People's Party and the Left Party on the one hand, who want to force quotas and the rest of us who do not like forced quota. We Christian Democrats believe that every day should be freely transferable between parents. Christian-democratic family policy therefore aims to allow more time for children and to increase family room for manoeuvre. It is therefore important to have generous and flexible parental insurance. We are proud of the Swedish parental insurance and want – as I hope I have clearly declared here – to transfer the power over how it can be used to a greater extent to the parents. Parental insurance is already individualised. Parents are entitled to half of the days each. In this way, the importance of parents to the child is emphasised, and both parents are given the opportunity to have close contact with their children. The Christian Democrats are in favour of this. But parenthood is a joint commitment, and therefore it is also the parents themselves who will jointly decide how the days will then be used, not Stefan Löfven, Åsa Romson or even Jan Björklund. The more square systems are created, the worse they fit into the everyday lives of different families. Mr President, I would like to What do parents and the Swedish people think about parental insurance? There is no support for parents wanting to be able to choose fewer forms of childcare or that they want politicians to decide to a greater extent who should be on parental leave and for how long. The left-wing government said such an accounting would happen. On the other hand, there are searches showing the opposite situation. A survey by Novus of April this year shows that an overwhelming majority, 76 percent, believe that parents should decide for themselves how to distribute parental insurance. Even among the left-wing government's own voters, 61 per cent believe that parental leave is up to the parents themselves. So you go out of step with the Swedish people here. The left-wing government writes in the budget proposal for 2016 like this: a modern family policy must be based on the everyday lives of today's parents and respond to the values and attitudes of today's parents. This is a correct and important starting point, but the problem is that the left-wing government, with its various proposals, runs counter to the parents' views and values on parental leave. The Social Insurance Agency's studies also show that many parents want to stay home a little longer with their young children. For this reason, it has become more common in the last ten years for both women and men to extend parental leave by unpaid days. The Social Insurance Agency conducted a survey in 2012 which shows that a large majority of parents, 89 per cent of women and 85 per cent of men, are satisfied with the distribution they have made of parental leave. This is even an increase compared to a similar study from 2003. Mr President, I would like to What do the referral bodies think about quotas for parental insurance? The very starting point for the proposal on quotas is to want to bring all families into one and the same model. That is also why several consultation bodies have been critical of the proposal. The Social Security Inspection, ISF, Institute for Labour and Education Policy Evaluation, IFAU, Children's Ombudsman, Makalö parents, Haro and others stress that additional quotas risk leading to a shorter time for the child together with the parents. Some also point to the fact that women will still choose to extend time at home with their children but without compensation, which in turn may affect their situation in the labour market as well as future pensions. The Swedish Agency for Adoption, MIA, and the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise reject the proposal for a quota of parental insurance precisely because they think it limits flexibility for families. RFSL also believes that it further limits the flexibility currently available in parenting insurance for star families. Save the Children would like to see an exemption from the quota if it is needed for various reasons. But that is not enough, Mr President. The left-wing government has plans to further regulate the lives of families. In the quota bill, the government discusses the issue of fully quota parental insurance and concludes: However, it is no secret that the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left want to quota parental insurance entirely. The question is whether the People's Party is going all the way. The Minister for Social Security has also expressed a negative opinion on the possibility currently available for parents to take parental leave without any compensation. Thus, the priority of more time with children that some parents want to do and that means that they have a lower income over a period of time may be removed. There are no limits to how the left-wing government wants to regulate parents' care for children in detail. But the government wants more than that. It also wants to regulate the distribution of domestic work by the family. The left-wing government with the Green Party and the Social Democrats has an objective of equality policy which means that they want an equal distribution of unpaid home and care work and that women and men should take the same responsibility for homework. A little joking could be put as if there would be a Löfven, a Romson or perhaps even a Björklund at every children's family's kitchen table.
i-e9721325013adbdf-248	Mr President, I would like to I did not have time to keep up with everything when it comes to referrals and investigations that were carried out and that do not want anything when it comes to quotas and so on. In fact, parental insurance is not something you need to reschedule at all. I think it's a bit like this: As you ask, you get answers. You might ask a young couple who are about to have a child: Do you want to decide for yourself about parental insurance? I'm sure they'll say yes when they're in this situation. They may not really think about what it looks like around you. M an can also ask the question in relation to something else: Do you also want to become a poor pensioner? Do you want a pension at all? Do you think it is reasonable that you will be forced to work part-time, either because you have so much to do with the children that you are forced for this reason or because there is not a full-time job? Do you get the same answer then? A parent will earn less and become more dependent on that parent living with, as in the old days – becoming more fettered. A little bit, that's what I'm thinking. We work in a committee, the Social Security Committee, where we deal with everything from the cradle to the grave. We see right through all our areas that women are getting more sick. There is a labour market that is more typical of women who have contacts with other people. You can't take it. It's all undersized, so you can't do it. You get sicker, you earn worse, you get to work less time and you end up as a poor pensioner – 70% of all poor pensioners are women – so with a lower pension. Maybe we'd get another answer if we called in a different way.
i-e9721325013adbdf-253	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Wiwi- Anne Johansson, for the question! I can see that there is a clear dividing line between us ideologically. It is not really a struggle between you and me, nor between the Left Party and the Christian Democrats. This is a struggle between parents and state. I'm not surprised, but at least I'm pretty upset that you so far fail the parents' ability to learn about how life will be made depending on the decisions they make. Rather, I acknowledge the ability of parents to draw in the knowledge they need to review their situation in life and to think: The decisions we make here will have these consequences for our family. This is ideologically interesting. What is it in your ideology that makes it so difficult to give parents the right to make their own decisions? You say here in your post that it is 2015. You also tell me that this is a small step along the way. I want to ask you, how far are you really going to go? Now it's 2015. What happens in the future? What is your vision of parental leave?
i-e9721325013adbdf-256	Mr President, I would like to The last is easy to answer: equal parental insurance. That's my vision. That is really my goal, and that is what I stand here and work for when we discuss this. I absolutely believe in parents' ability to make the wisest and best decisions for their children. On the other hand, I am not so sure about something else. I can only go to myself and think about what it's like when you sit at the possible kitchen table and discuss. When you are 25 - 30 years old, you may not even think of becoming like that at some point in your 60 - 65 years of age. There are oceans of time there, and that with retirement is something someone else fixes, you think. Now we know, not least with the pension system that we have today, that it is good to start working early and to work long. In the meantime, I and the Left Party think this is a good thing. We should be equal, and we think we want to make wise political decisions that help us on the road to an equal society. It is not at all a question of depriving people of their ability to make decisions. But we must also understand that we have already made numerous political decisions or have not made them, which affects the choices people make at home. Perhaps the rational decision at the moment is by far the most irrational decision for life as a whole. We say we should do the best we can for our children. We can't ask our children. It is not certain that it is always the best thing for children to be at home for as long as possible. There's nothing to say. If an investigation were to be carried out afterwards, it may be that a different decision would have been made.
i-e9721325013adbdf-260	Mr President, I would like to Now I am not saying that Wiwi- Anne Johansson is taking away the ability of parents to make their own decisions. I don't think she does. But she takes away the right to make her own decisions. The ability to do so they have. But when she comes from above and makes political decisions that affect their everyday lives to the extent that this does, it becomes a problem, I mean. Wiwi- Anne Johansson wants equality, and as I see it, parental insurance today is both equal and flexible. You can share it 50 to 50. It's not really a problem. I would also like to say that I share the view that it is important for fathers to take greater responsibility. I also find it problematic that women earn so much less than men. Of course, it is partly a matter of wage development that women earn an average of just over 3 million less over a lifetime than men do. I don't think that's good at all. That is why we have some common thoughts about this, but I think it differs considerably in the view of the parents' ability and right to make their own decisions at the kitchen table and to be able to see for themselves the consequences of the decisions they make.
i-e9721325013adbdf-264	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for approval of the bill and rejection of the motions, something I have been looking forward to doing. I have been looking forward to standing here today because we are now finally taking an important step forward for more equal parental insurance. We Social Democrats, in good company with several other parties, want to do this by reserving more time for each parent in parental insurance. We are doing this because we know that a more even take-up of parental benefit is probably the single most important and effective reform at hand in order also to achieve an equal working life and an equal society. Today's parental insurance consists of 480 days of parental benefit, divided between the parents. So what the government now proposes is that a third month, or 90 days, instead of the current 60 days, be reserved for each parent. I would like to remind you that even in the 41-year-old basic structure of parental insurance, the days of parental benefit were divided equally between the parents, albeit with greater possibility of transferring days between them – something that I believe was more relevant at the time, in the transition from maternity leave to current parental leave. It was more understandable in the context of the 1970s when parental insurance was born and women's conditions in the labour market looked different. Since then, thankfully, a great deal has happened in the labour market, not least in relation to women's working people. I therefore believe that it is now high time to adapt parental insurance to the 2010s so that both the actual collection of parental benefit – i.e. not only the basic structure but also the outcome – becomes more equal, as well as the conditions in working life so that society's expectations for women and men become more equal and the gender roles in society become less forced. To reserve another month for each parent is an important step along the way. When the first and later also the second month was earmarked, it had a clear impact on a more equal set-aside. Although I am the first to note that this has obviously not been enough, it has proved to have been an accurate method that has had a significant impact on equality in our country. Let us continue along this path to combine with a third reserved month for each parent our already very generous and flexible insurance with more equality! Madam President, I would like I think we are all painfully aware of the problem of the pay gap: that men earn more than women. When it comes to the gender pay gap, the inequality in our country is still extremely clear. I often hear the pay gap highlighted as an explanation for the unequal distribution of parental leave. We heard it earlier here during the debate, for example. Unfortunately, I can see that sometimes it is also highlighted a little as an argument for condoning today's lopsided pattern of parental benefit withdrawal or at least allowing it to proceed. I think that's a shame, because if we peel out another layer on the onion, we can find something very interesting. On the one hand, we see that in the families where women account for the higher income, it is still women who are on parental leave to a much greater extent. On the one hand, we see that it is precisely in connection with family formation that the unequal patterns are often established, for example that women take greater responsibility for home and children and become more absent from the labour market. This in the next step affects pay, income throughout life, pensions and other unfair differences that we know exist between the different conditions of women and men. What I want to do with this argument is that there are much more profound social standards behind the unequal distribution of responsibilities. We must be able to see that unequal pay is not only a reason for an unequal payment of parental benefit but also, in fact, an effect of the unequal distribution of responsibilities in the first place. In other words, there is no shortcut to equality, but we simply need to set our sights on the basic structures and standards of society. In this context, making the withdrawal of parental benefit more equal by reserving more days for each parent in parental insurance is extremely smart. It is smart because we know from experience that it works both effectively and normatively. To a large extent, but not only, this is, of course, about improving women's pay, conditions and participation in the labour market, because today's unequal patterns mean that even after parental leave, women continue to take a much greater responsibility for their homes and children, more often than men go down in working hours, are much more sick and so on. These are patterns that have a major impact on pay, career and development opportunities as well as on the balance between family life and working life and in the next step also on pensions. I want to be careful to emphasise that more equal parental insurance is also about breaking structures that today say that it is not as obvious for fathers to be at home and care for their children as it is for mothers. But, of course, it is ultimately about the children's best interests – about the children's right to both their parents and about creating equal structures and conditions for our youngest, coming generation. Finally, Madam President, today we have the opportunity to take a step away from gamma current standards and rigid gender roles. Let us seize that opportunity, and let us today be the day when we take responsibility for creating more equal parental insurance as an important step towards a more equal working life and a more equal society!
i-e9721325013adbdf-280	Madam President, I would like It was interesting to listen to Mrs Carvalhos's speech. Among other things, she raised the issue of breaking structures by introducing a further quota parental month. Should parental insurance change structures and women's labour market? Is it not better for the labour market to help break structures so that parenthood becomes more equal? Would it not be better for the Social Democrats, who have such a good relationship with LO and the union, to contribute to raising women's wages and to changing women's labour market in order to achieve a more equal take-up of parental leave? I have just heard Mrs Carvalho say that it is the labour market policy issues that make women take more of parental leave today. Why can the labour market not change the take-up of parental leave?
i-e9721325013adbdf-283	Madam President, I would like The simple answer to Solveig Zanders's basic question is yes. As I just tried to explain in my introduction, it is clear – and everything points out – that more reserved days in parental insurance will have an effect on a more equal collection of parental benefit, which in turn also works normatively to create a more equal society in general. That's why we want to go that way. I do not see in itself that it stands in contrast to working on other fronts as well. I do not mean, of course, that parental insurance is the solution to all the problems associated with gender equality. But we know it's the basis of a lot of things. Many of the unequal structures and patterns that emerge not least in the labour market, later linked to pensions, are due to how unevenly we also share the responsibility for children and families, i.e. the collection of parental benefit. That is why it is extremely important to have a more even payment of parental benefit in order to achieve a more equal society.
i-e9721325013adbdf-285	Madam President, I would like I wonder if Teresa Carvalho can't agree with me that this is the wrong way to go about using parental insurance to make the labour market more equal and fair. Would it not still be better to contribute to improving the labour market? That is what we want to get at, and that is what the Social Democrats want to get at. Is it not wrong, then, to use parental insurance and the children to solve the problem? What will be the next step? is my legitimate question. If we do not share this view, must children be forced into childcare at the age of one? Then parental insurance is really shared. This is a worrying way of getting women to participate in an equal labour market. Can't you do anything other than use parental insurance? What can Teresa Carvalho think of doing instead of using parental insurance to achieve a more equal labour market?
i-e9721325013adbdf-288	Madam President, I would like It is interesting that Solveig Zander and the Center Party so desperately want me to develop alternatives to how to solve the gender issue instead of using the most effective tool at hand, namely to reserve more time for each parent in parental insurance. I believe in and choose to move on with this because there is so many evidence that a more even payment of parental benefit will create a more equal labour market. A more equal take-up of parental benefit is done by reserving more time for each parent. I do not think that the task of developing alternatives is my responsibility. Maybe it's something Solveig Zander needs to think about. I would like to emphasise once again that, of course, we can influence the pay gap in many different ways, but we cannot close our eyes to the fact that an important part is based on parental insurance. It is clear that many of the unequal patterns are often established precisely in connection with family formation. It is then and then that women take greater responsibility for home and children. That is when they begin to be more absent from the labour market, and that is when they slip behind in wage developments, career opportunities and pension rights. Everything indicates that more equal parental insurance will lead to a more equal labour market. For me, it is obvious that 2015 takes the step to reserve another month. It will probably not solve everything, and it is very likely that we will have to do more. But I'm proud to be part of it today.
i-e9721325013adbdf-293	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by saying that there are major social problems linked to the uneven distribution of parental benefit. But I really cannot quite understand your reasoning when you choose to completely abolish the equality bonus. It is the tool currently in place to create incentives for parents to share responsibility equally. The bonus means the most to those who earn the least. The inequality of parental insurance is highest in families where the economy is not as good. The financial incentives to share equally, you choose to abolish. I know you refer to the fact that the bonus has not worked and has not had any effect. However, the insurance fund's own evaluations indicate that this is due to a lack of information. Parents do not know about the gender equality bonus, and it also makes it difficult to take it into account in the distribution of parental responsibility. Why do you choose to abolish the gender equality bonus before you have done any analysis and before you have given the bonus a chance by increasing information to parents?
i-e9721325013adbdf-296	Madam President, I would like The Moderates have an interesting entrance. On the one hand, I am pleased to hear Tina Ghasemi speak well of gender equality as something desirable. I assume that's why you choose to highlight the gender equality bonus. On the other hand, I am puzzled by the refusal to use the methods that we know, unlike the equality bonus, to work properly and normatively, as more reserved days in parental insurance do. Both the first and the second reserved month had a clear effect on a more equal take-up of parental benefit. That's why we choose to move on with a third moon ad. The same cannot be said for the equality bonus. It hasn't been effective. There is no evidence that it has had an effect or that it will have an effect. We hear Tina Ghasemi refer to Försäkringskassan's investigation, which would say that parents do not have sufficient knowledge. The survey I have seen shows that about one in five affected parents does not have knowledge, that is, most have knowledge of how the bonus works. What is more remarkable in this context, I think, is that about three quarters of the parents who have knowledge of the gender equality bonus state that it does not affect them. It does not make them distribute parental leave more equally. We also see that in black and white. The gender equality bonus has not been effective as reserved days have had. My question to Tina Ghasemi, my question to the representative of the Moderates here in the debate, is why one chooses to fight for an expensive and ineffective measure instead of choosing to support the tried and tested methods, which work normative and effective.
i-e9721325013adbdf-301	Madam President, I would like What you're saying, Teresa Carvalho, doesn't add up. In addition to Försäkringskassan's investigation, there have been two others, three in total, dealing with the gender equality bonus and the lack of information surrounding that reform. The knowledge is lacking in a majority of parents, not in one fifth. A majority of parents have a lack of knowledge about the design of the gender bonus and its effects. That is why we believe that we must first invest in a thorough information campaign and then evaluate the effects. I think it is irresponsible for the government to abolish a reform aimed at increasing incentives to share equally before any analysis has been carried out, before giving it a chance at all. You also mentioned earlier in your speech that the economy does not play a role in women's withdrawals, i.e. the gender equality bonus. To some extent, you may be right. However, you are wrong on another point: It matters for men's withdrawals. We can see the fact that higher compensation matters. When, in 1995, the level of parental benefit was reduced from 90 to 80 per cent, men's take-up of parental benefit was actually reduced – despite the simultaneous introduction of the first reserved month. It took five years with lower compensation before the men's withdrawals had climbed to the same level as before the reduction in compensation. Therefore, financial incentives play a role for families and how they choose to withdraw parental benefit. Why do you make it difficult for parents to share responsibility as parents?
i-e9721325013adbdf-307	Madam President, I would like However much the Moderates wish to do so, I still have to say that the gender equality bonus has not had an effect on a more equal payment of parental benefit. Nor is there much evidence that it will. On the other hand, we know that a first and a second reserved month of parental insurance had that effect. Everything indicates that a third month will also have that effect. Therefore, we choose to reserve additional time for each parent in parental insurance. I hear that the Moderates are talking about the gender equality bonus as a carrot and an incentive for parents despite the fact that it has so far not had the desired effect. I would rather choose to describe the gender equality bonus as a very thin patch on a much deeper wound, which is not enough when it bleeds. As the gender bonus is designed, it helps to identify and underline the unequal standards that exist rather than to address the problem. What has been effective so far is reserved time. A more equal take-up of parental benefit benefits women's position in the labour market. There are many of us who have spoken about this today, and that is an important perspective. But equal parental insurance also benefits fathers and children, and I think that deserves to be said more often. Equality benefits everyone. That is why we Social Democrats choose to move on to reserve an additional month for each parent in parental insurance. Unfortunately, I have to say that what the Moderates really want with gender equality today is becoming increasingly unclear.
i-e9721325013adbdf-314	Madam President, I would like I, too, have been looking forward to this day. The Swedish Parliament is facing a very important decision today, a decision that will increase gender equality in Sweden in several areas of society. Today we will be voting on more equal parental insurance. It is a decision that will affect structurally the conditions for women and men to live equal lives. The fact that it is a structural decision that affects the foundations, not just people's choices, is important because it is the structures that are the reason why we do not have an equal society. The reason is not that people choose wrong. The Green Party is a feminist party that not only sees the structures but also wants to do something about them. We also want to do what works. Just as Teresa Carvalho has explained, what works, what we have political power over, is, among other things, parental insurance. It is one of the most powerful tools that the Swedish Parliament can use if you are serious about wanting an equal society. Today, inequality is expressed in many ways and in many areas of society – including the labour market, where the structural pay gap between men and women amounted to SEK 65 billion in 2014. On average, this means 3.6 million less in pay per woman compared to men and even less in pensions. 70% of the poor pensioners are women. Inequality also exists in unpaid domestic and care work, where women take the most responsibility, and this affects children. It affects children when, during the first years, they receive an average of three and a half months with their father and thirteen months with their mother. I wonder if it is the case that the Christian Democrats and the Company think that is what is best for the children – that it is best for the children not to be so much with their fathers. There is nothing in the research that indicates that it is best – quite the opposite. Madam President, I would like The Moderates suggested that we should instead have a greater gender equality bonus. Since the gender equality bonus has not worked, this is clearly not the way to go. Christian Democrats think inequality is a bad thing, but they do not want to do anything about it. The Center Party does not want to use the tools that work either. On the other hand, it is open to reviewing parental insurance as a whole. I very much welcome this, I have to say, because we have more challenges than equality. Sweden does not look like the old outdated ideal of nuclear families. There are so many more – families with more than two adults and families with one adult. We need to modernise our systems for those families too. I hope, of course, that we can reach broad agreement between the parties on the review. I also hope that with today's system we can already tackle the challenges facing the most vulnerable families, often single mothers who share custody with absent fathers. We also need to find solutions for them. I hope that we can do this at the same time as we continue to work towards a more even withdrawal of parental insurance for all families. The Green Party's entry into this work has been a three-parting where one-third should be reserved for one parent and one-third for the other as long as we have a system where there may be only two parents; that too is something we want to change. In addition, one third can be transferred to another person related to the child. It may be a third parent, someone who in practice is a parent even if it is not according to law and on paper. It may be a stepparent, or it may be a person who does not have the parental role but still has a close relationship with the child and in this way is important during the child's childhood. These are the entrances we will have in the continued work for parental insurance that is equal and well adapted to what families look like in Sweden today – all families. The step we are taking today is important. It will play a role in increasing gender equality in the labour market and in families and more present fathers in the early years of children. I would therefore like to call for the committee's proposal to be approved and look forward to continuing to work together on these issues.
i-e9721325013adbdf-330	Madam President, I would like Annika Hirvonen Falk from the Green Party made a very good speech, I have to say. A lot of wise things were said. I suppose I belong to a company in this context, although I am a center party. What Annika Hirvonen Falk said, among other things, was that she was looking forward to a continuation of the changes so that parental insurance would be more equal, that this was the first step, and she listed other important things that would also be changed. That's why I wonder: Does Annika Hirvonen Falk think it's good that we take hold of individual things and don't see the whole picture of parental insurance? When Annika Hirvonen Falk says that there will be many who support a change in parental insurance, I wonder: Can the Green Party influence the Social Democratic government so that a cross-block parliamentary inquiry is set up, an investigation that takes into account the entire parental insurance policy and that is not done by just one person? When I listen to Annika Hirvonen Falk and the Green Party, I understand that they have not been allowed to participate in deciding that a single person will do the new parental insurance review.
i-e9721325013adbdf-334	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to say that the Green Party is also in the government, and the decisions that are made are taken jointly. I'm not so interested in what form an investigation should take. I am much more interested in the content, and I assume that together we will be involved in recording ideas on how we can change the regulatory framework so that it will suit all families. I am pleased that the Center Party is expressing the understanding that Sweden's families no longer look the same with Mom, Dad, children. When it comes to taking one step at a time, I want to say that I have a vision, and I would like to run there. But we must of course ensure that we have a majority in favour of our proposals, and then this proposal has gained a majority or will receive it at the vote today. I do not think there is any reason to postpone the decision just because we know that we need to make more radical changes that will take a lot of time to work out. We know that this proposal works. It is a relatively simple proposal to make. It is therefore positive that the government has done so quickly. If you do not think that the change should be made, I understand that you would prefer to postpone the issue, but for those of us who think it is urgent to put forward reform proposals that increase gender equality as soon as possible, it is important that the issue arises today.
i-e9721325013adbdf-339	Madam President, I would like I will be frank and say that I did not believe that the Green Party was in the government because it was said from the speaker's chair that there were other things that would also be included in parental insurance. When it is said by the Green Party that you can record, that you should watch, that you should contribute to so I can say: We from the Alliance are not allowed to participate in the recording. This may mean that several important points are not included. In addition, there may be such a thing in the forthcoming proposal if we on behalf of the Alliance do not support it. This means that when we get the government power back in 2018, we will change it, and it will be very hating for the parents. Is it not better to have a parliamentary inquiry in which it is known that the proposals and decisions are common or at least that a very broad majority in the Swedish Parliament is behind them? In this way, tomorrow's parents know what they have to comply with in the long term. Parental insurance is as important as pension, unemployment insurance and health insurance. So we need to look a long way in the future so that we know what we have to conform to. I therefore wonder again: could the Green Party not influence the Social Democrats so that there is a parliamentary inquiry and we get much better parental insurance than we have today, for the sake of both children and parents and for the sake of society?
i-e9721325013adbdf-343	Madam President, I would like I am absolutely sure that in the proposal that the investigation to adapt parental insurance for star families will put forward there will be proposals which – at least it is my experience – the Christian Democrats will not be in favour. I am absolutely sure that we will not reach total agreement on this issue. On the other hand, there is every opportunity for all parties, for example, to record ideas and ambitions here today for the Minister sitting in this Chamber and for the others who listen and make decisions. I look forward to those discussions.
i-e9721325013adbdf-345	Madam President, I would like Annika Hirvonen Falk mentioned that not all families look the same, and I can't agree with her anymore. Should not the Green Party take the impression of its own conclusions? If not all families look the same, how can you be in favour of additional quotas? Family constellations and situations are different and so are the solutions. The government is now going to set up an investigation for a review of parental insurance. As you mentioned in your speech, you welcome the fact that the Moderates also take a positive view of a review of parental insurance. But we do not feel very welcome, even though you welcome us. You do the opposite – you do not welcome us. You're going to set up an investigation that's not parliamentary. These are very important issues that affect many parents and families with children, yet you choose to keep the investigation to yourselves. Why do you not set up a parliamentary inquiry to try to get a broad consensus on these important issues? You have also announced another proposal on these issues during your term of office. It is quite important for the Swedish people to know what this means. Are these additional quotas? How many more months will we see-- four, five, six or seven? This affects a great many people, and there is great resistance to additional quotas in parental insurance. It is now important to have clear answers. Can the Green Party tell us today?
i-e9721325013adbdf-350	Madam President, I would like Of course, I can't tell you what the investigation will come up with. We will see when it is set up and when it makes its proposal. I have already explained the Green Party's proposal, namely a three-part division where one-third goes to each guardian if there are two guardians and one-third can be transferred freely, also to another close relative. A similar proposal has also been presented by the Delegation for Gender Equality at Work. They proposed five months to the guardians and two months to be transferred freely or to someone close to them. So there are many thoughts that go in that direction. There may be other ideas that need to complement these reasonings. There may be ideas that the investigator can come up with that are even better than we've figured out at the Congresses of the Green Party. I'm open to it. However, the goal should be that we achieve an equal take-out of parental insurance, while at the same time we have parental insurance that is adapted for all different families.
i-e9721325013adbdf-354	Madam President, I would like In fact, I have not received an answer to my absolutely relevant question as to why we are not invited to talk. These are incredibly important issues that affect a great many people. It is also important that there are long-term rules of play specifically in parental insurance. This is exactly the same as with pension issues, where there must also be long-term rules of play for it to be sustainable. You're still not answering why we're not invited to talk. In your speech you said you welcome the Moderates, but you don't. Can you tell us that the Moderates and the rest of the Alliance may be invited to a parliamentary inquiry?
i-e9721325013adbdf-356	Madam President, I would like It's called debate, but maybe it depends a little on the tone of the conversation. I can still see that the democratic conversation is going on here and now. This is where we talk. This is where all Members of Parliament have the opportunity to present their proposals.
i-e9721325013adbdf-357	Madam President, I would like Well, Annika Hirvonen Falk, don't let anyone look down on you because you're young, but you have to process your prejudices about the Christian Democrats! I don't know who whispers in your ear, but you really need to process the prejudices you have about our party. You said something that I think is rude, actually, namely that KD thinks equality is bad. That's rude! I get upset and I want to tell you that you're just wrong. You may need to think about how you express yourself. We're in favour of flexible parental insurance. We're in favour of a gender equality bonus. We are pleased that fathers take further, greater responsibility, which they actually do. I do not know the Green Party's ideology 100%, but I believed in my oblivion that the Green Party was a Party of Freedom. Now you're in government. I understand there's not much hope there. You are constantly joining the government's policy in this area, and you want to get through a little more than we decide in this House later today.
i-e9721325013adbdf-361	Madam President, I would like It was an innovative way to use the age master technique from Roland Utbolt, the most innovative I've heard during my political career. The Green Party is a feminist party. That is an ideological position. This means that you see the inequality and causes behind it as structural and that you want to do something about it. Roland Utbolt must have misunderstood my quotes. I think this: If the Christian Democrats believe that parents are in charge, do the Christian Democrats think that the best thing for the children, whom the Christian Democrats also want to achieve, is that they meet their fathers considerably less time than they meet their mothers during their first years of life? In view of the fact that the Kristde Democrats have voted against the possibility of same-sex couples entering into partnerships and no to same-sex marriages and that the Christian Democrats are not in favour of having more than two guardians, I said that my theory is that an investigation that will adapt parental insurance to, among other things, these families will not be welcomed by the Christian Democrats. Of course, I am pleased if the Christian Democrats will join the group that makes the analysis that Sweden's families look different today and that we need parental insurance that is adapted for those families.
i-e9721325013adbdf-365	Madam President, I would like We are in favour of flexible parental insurance, and it exists today. You can split 50 - 50 if you want. Of course, we want fathers to take greater responsibility, definitely. Why should I think otherwise? It goes without saying that we should divide this up. Annika Hir vonen Falk is incredibly focused on the number of days. But it is actually a question of fathers taking responsibility also in many other contexts that are outside parental insurance. We think that is right and, of course, we welcome it. What would speak against fathers and mothers sharing their responsibilities? What kind of society do we live in? I think this is self-evident. You think things, you say. Of course we realize that families look different. I think you have a lot of prejudice, and I think you should process it. Of course, families look different. And of course we will work to ensure that fathers take even more responsibility when it comes to parenting days. That is also what is happening. Of course, we want to acknowledge to parents at the kitchen table that they have the ability to decide and also to take the consequences of their decisions.
i-e9721325013adbdf-370	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that I can now tweet out that the Christian Democrats want to work for parental insurance adapted to star families – I have to say that. I admit my prejudice was that you weren't so interested in it. I'm sorry about that. On the other hand, I have to turn to the argument that one might think that fathers do more than what can be seen in the statistics and so on. In fact, you can look at the parental allowance days. The women charge 75%. You can look at parental leave itself. Women take out a larger share. You can look at the care of children. It is 63% that are taken out by women. You can look at the number of people who go down in working hours to give care to a loved one. There are also women in the majority. I am based on the statistical basis when I say that it is not equal in terms of how time is allocated today.
i-e9721325013adbdf-373	Madam President, I would like Sweden is probably one of the world's best countries to be a parent and a child in. This can be seen not least by the fact that we have high birth rates compared to many other high-income countries. Many other countries – Germany, Japan, the UK and the other Nordic countries – see us as a role model. We know pretty well why this is. That's what we tell you about when we get study visits from these countries. We introduced special taxation at an early stage. We probably have the world's most generous and flexible parental insurance, and we have a well-functioning preschool with low fees. This is a big investment. We spend SEK 41 billion each year on parental insurance, SEK 26 billion on child benefit and SEK 7 billion on compensating parents so that they don't lose so much pension on being away from work during childhood years. We spend about 82 billion on preschool and school care. It's a total of 157 billion, and I'm very proud of that. But there are other areas where Sweden is not as prominent. One is about the pay gap between women and men. This distinguishes 3.6 – yes, now up to 4 – million in living income between an average man and an average woman. Ask the question in a survey to the Swedish people! Ask how many percentage points think this is a good idea! It separates 3.6 million until retirement day. Then the differences are reinforced, and they continue to be very large. Half of the women who retire will live on a pension below $5,000 a month. It's very upsetting – that's what you think at all the kitchen tables. As proud as I am of our family policy, which is a model for many countries, I am equally saddened by the pay gap. The design of parental insurance plays a crucial role in children's rights to their parents but also in the development of gender equality in the Swedish labour market. The development of parental insurance is an important part of Swedish welfare. It has been a foundation for women's liberation and a foundation for many fathers' opportunity to be at home at all. At the same time, today's insurance is linked to challenges. Until families have children, the wage trend for men and women with the same educational background is quite similar. That is not where the 3.6 million are founded. After parental leave, women have no chance of catching up with wage developments. How families distribute parental leave affects gender equality in the relationship for the rest of life. It's affecting life's wages. Unfortunately, it also affects the expectations and opportunities of all men and women regardless of the choices they have made. On average, men are away from the labour market for almost four months per child. On average, women are away from the labour market for over a year and three months. This has both a direct and long-term impact on women's income, women's pensions and women's contribution to the Swedish labour market. It is when the children come that the pay gap grows, part-time work spreads and women's sick leave rises. Sometimes we wonder what the increasing sickness rates are due to. There are many who point the finger at working life. I believe that women's dual roles, as professionals and with primary responsibility for domestic work, are an important villain in the drama. It's one of the big things we need to solve in the future. It becomes an even bigger problem when we also know that women are generally more educated than men. If we believe that education provides higher productivity and competence, it is bad for Sweden if the most educated are the most absent from the labour market. In my opinion, liberals should not contribute to the use of tax funds to maintain this. If you want to take responsibility, like me and my party, to change this, you must also be prepared to act accordingly. It is not possible to stand here and love equality but not be prepared to make any decisions. We have borne that responsibility since the early 1990s – I would like to remind you of that. When Bengt Westerberg, quoted earlier in the speaker's chair, took the initiative for the first earmarked month, we were first out. It's not something we're running around with. By 2014, we went to elections to be involved in implementing the third earmarked month, so it should not come as a surprise to anyone. The change that we are voting on today is also a contribution to ensuring that women and men, regardless of their family situation, are treated equally and fairly in the labour market. The expectations the environment has of women's and men's absence contribute to women of the right age, regardless of thoughts about children or not, encountering worse chances of working and career while men who want to be equal and take responsibility are held back by the prejudices of the environment. The fact that women and men face fewer prejudices increases the freedom to shape their own lives. There are parties within the bourgeoisie that are now pressing a different button than the People's Party, the Liberals, will choose. I am happy for Sweden, for gender equality, for the sake of our working life and our Swedish companies that this line does not win. Today's in ndustri's leadership side, Wallenberg's recruitment company Novare and the largest association of Sweden's managers, the Leaders, have all taken a stand for more earmarked months. They understand that it gives an advantage to Sweden. In the midst of unfortunate tax increases that are spreading, at least a decision is now being taken in this House that will strengthen the competitiveness of our labour market. Friends of Swedish industry should be happy and proud of that today.
i-e9721325013adbdf-386	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the pleasure of sitting and listening to the extremely committed debate on a central and important issue for a more equal labour market, for a more equal society, for a more equal family life but also very much in terms of the move towards children's access to both parents even when they are young! We know that in cases where parental leave is shared on an equal footing, the child is better connected to both parents. It also distributes unpaid domestic work more equally in those families, as a consequence. Women's wage development is also more equal in families who share equal opportunities on parental benefit days. In the event of separation, which sometimes actually takes place in the best families, children live in the families where parental benefit has been shared on an equal footing with the parents, and have access to both. If one is to talk about being a family party, one should very much safeguard the equal distribution of parental benefit. I am therefore extremely pleased to be able to stand here today and take steps in this direction. But I would also like, like some of the previous speakers, to back down 41 years, when this ambitious reform was introduced by courageous politicians in 1974. In the 1970s, we implemented special taxation. It was an extremely important step to tax individuals instead of families. We carried out the world's best and most generous and equal parental insurance. It was an individualized parental insurance with 240 days for each parent. We also extended childcare facilities in this country and gave families access to universal childcare facilities, which was the very basis for women to be able to make a significant contribution to the labour market. And we did. Sweden is among the countries in the world that have the highest participation rate among women. It's amazing, and it's something we should be proud of. It has contributed to Sweden's success and to Sweden's growth. We have not succeeded as well with regard to the good idea of implementing flexibility in parental insurance. This flexibility has not worked out very well. Do you seriously think that those who 41 years ago discussed this thought that 2015 would have a situation where mothers still take four out of five days when the children are small? As many others have pointed out, this has consequences. Women work and work, and they train. For 30 years, women in Sweden have been better educated than men. But it's not visible in the pay envelope. I would say that it is in everyone's interest to achieve more equal parental insurance. Just as Maria Arnholm said here before, it is precisely when the family is formed that we see that the salary development for women is halting and that career development is halting. When the other child enters family life, he puts a knot on him. That's when women's sick leave skyrockets. One in three well-educated civil servant women starts working part-time after they have formed a family to get their lives together and to cope. Even so, women are more sick. The reality is that half of all women who are now retiring receive between SEK 5 000 and SEK 8 000 a month after tax. Women in Sweden have on average 30% lower pensions. I believe that it is perceived that this is a problem for which we politicians have a responsibility by now ensuring that the reforms that have led to women's participation in the labour market are followed up and that they actually also implement the tools that enable women to use their skills, work a full working life and maintain their health. And children will have access to both their parents. One should simply be able to have a good life together. It is not so often that a social democrat quotes a bourgeois politician in the Chamber. Bengt Westerberg was quoted earlier. I would also like to quote a former People's Party minister. Maria Arnholm wrote in Expressen yesterday: I want people in Sweden regardless of gender or gender identity to be even freer in ten years' time. That different expectations should not meet and limit girls and boys, women and men. I want the legislation to reflect this. ..................................................... What we are doing today is taking a step in this direction. I have two little girls at home myself. I want them to come out on a labour market in a Sweden that provides the tools and ensures that the keys are in the labour market and in society for an equal working life and life. A third reserved month is very good, but it is not enough. In 40 years, our labour market has changed a lot with many different types of employment and many more entrepreneurs. Our family constellations are in many different ways. Therefore, we from the government are pleased to be able to take the step towards reviewing the entire parental insurance policy. It is important that we also take a holistic approach. Today we are pleased with today's important milestone, but tomorrow we are working on it.
i-e9721325013adbdf-404	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for being here and for allowing us to debate these important issues. I have great respect for what social democracy and other parties have done throughout history in our country. Today we live in a society that is well organised and that works well. We must respect all the work that has been done and the proposals that have been decided in this House over the years. I will also make a clarification. I request the approval of reservations 1 and 4. The so-called quota bill that we are debating today states: The government therefore considers it more appropriate to gradually reserve more time for each guardian. Since I have heard that the Green Party is now in the middle of this and wants a three-part parental insurance policy, my simple question is: what is the ultimate goal for the Minister and for the Government in this regard?
i-e9721325013adbdf-409	Madam President, I would like The ultimate goal of the government is, of course, that we in Sweden should have parental insurance that supports an equal family life, where children have access to both their parents.
i-e9721325013adbdf-410	Madam President, I would like Then we agree on the case. Then it is only the approach that we do not really agree on. There is a dividing line between the government on the one hand and the People's Party on the other, and the Christian Democrats and those who reserve for the decision today. We simply mean that the power for decisions at the kitchen table should lie with the parents. We believe that they have the ability to draw in knowledge and also see the consequences of the decisions they make. I would also like to ask another question. There was a news on the radio today about a major investigation into parental insurance. A number of organisations have been invited to this, but we in the opposition have been excluded from the investigation. I think it's really quite startling. I heard the Minister say on the radio that it is because this is going to go away. I do not know how we would prevent this from happening more quickly, but the Minister said that it has landed in this. My simple question is, of course, what makes the opposition not part of this major, important investigation into parental insurance. What makes you think that?
i-e9721325013adbdf-413	Madam President, I would like I'd like to start briefly at the kitchen table. Related to the major problems we see for women linked to an equal family life, I have to say that I am very tired of talking kitchen tables. We have one of the world's most generous parental insurance policies in this country, even if – on the basis that it looks like it is today – one would actually say that each parent gets their 240 days and that they are individualized. That would apply even if the insurance looked just like any other social security scheme does and where we do not discuss kitchen tables. We are only doing this because this is about equality, about children and basically about the role of women. Therefore, there will be a kitchen table discussion about parental insurance. With 240 days per parent there is quite a lot of flexibility even if the insurance would look like it was actually the original idea that it would do. As for the news that Roland Utbolt refers to, it is by no means news. The Prime Minister already announced in his first declaration of government that we intended to review parental insurance. I have also been out talking about this for a very long time, also as regards the importance of looking at, among other things, what we have been discussing here today. It is about taking a holistic approach and taking into account that society has changed. We will meet with interest groups; we have our first meeting next week. I am extremely pleased with the interest in being in the dialogue that has been expressed today by several parties in the opposition. I will, of course, ensure that we have the opportunity to do so in the future. I would therefore like to thank you for that. I think that's good.
i-e9721325013adbdf-417	Madam President, I would like I almost got off here at the end when the minister thanked so much for wanting to be part of the investigation. We see, of course, that stability, long-termness, sustainability and overallity are important in parental insurance, and I must say that we in the Alliance want to be involved in order for that to be possible. However, when the Minister at the same time says that this should be done quickly, I think it is a scandal. I almost think it shows low priority in this area. Of course, a parliamentary inquiry in which we from the Alliance can also be involved will not go quickly, but it will take a little longer. But it will also mean that the proposals that are being made are well-founded. They will be stable, long-term, sustainable and have a whole. This can, of course, give parents the opportunity to continue planning their parental leave. Many parents are doing so today, and these are important points. I must, of course, ask the Minister whether it is possible for her to reconsider, redo and do better. Is it possible not to have a one-man inquiry but to ensure that there is a parliamentary inquiry?
i-e9721325013adbdf-420	Madam President, I would like I thank Solveig Zander for the recordings. I want to start by saying something about this that it will be quick. Parental insurance has been investigated before. Among other things, Karl-Karl-Petter Thorwaldsson made such an investigation about ten years ago. Before I took office as a minister in this government, I had a very fine assignment in which I served as one of the members of the previous government's delegation for gender equality in the world of work for several years. It submitted its results before the summer, and parental insurance was a key element in the discussions that took place in the investigation. A great deal has been done. That is why I think it is possible to move forward relatively quickly. We have said that we would like to come back with some proposal during this parliamentary term. We are so far on the verge that we have not envisaged a parliamentary inquiry, but I am, of course, listening to the input made by the opposition parties here today. I am very pleased that there is an interest in being involved in an overall review of parental insurance. That's what we need. As an example, you can take in the entrepreneurial perspective. We know that very many entrepreneurs today do not take advantage of parental insurance because its construction does not fit very well. So there are so many different perspectives in this that we need to look at. I would like to take with me the views expressed by Mr Zander and the wishes put forward. We will simply have to come back with how we can involve the opposition parties in this work as well.
i-e9721325013adbdf-424	Madam President, I would like I must say that it is extremely interesting to listen to the Minister, who is very sympathetic. I hope that the Minister will reconsider so that there will be a parliamentary inquiry, which I believe is the prerequisite for us to get what we want to achieve. Although it is well established today, the studies carried out have not looked, among other things, at the possibility of more carrots and achieving equality in this way. You from the government today have been very opposed to, for example, the gender equality bonus. We have this with guarantee days and minimum-level days, which is a sammmelsurium. As far as entrepreneurs are concerned, as the Minister points out, the Business Federation has proposed that five days' leave be allowed. It is possible today to choose how many days of parental leave you want to take, but if I understand correctly, the problem is not in the legislation but in the way our authorities view entrepreneurship. It is therefore important to include this in a study on how parental insurance should look, so that everyone has the opportunity to take parental leave. Now I take the Minister's words seriously. I very much hope that the Minister will keep her promise, namely that we will have a parliamentary inquiry in which we from the Alliance can really be involved. Otherwise, there is an enormous risk that we will do it again in 2018.
i-e9721325013adbdf-427	Madam President, I would like At the end of our shift in line, I would like to make it clear to Mr Zander that I have not promised a parliamentary inquiry. On the other hand, I have promised to ensure that the opposition parties will also have the opportunity to intervene and have an influence in the investigation. I believe that this is important too. If we are going to take on this work, we do not want to miss any important perspectives or good ideas. I hear this is what Solveig Zander wants, and I take it with me.
i-e9721325013adbdf-428	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister. I would like to start by saying that I think it is a false argument when we talk about time with the parents. After all, the parent who is at home with the child does not associate with the child all the time that the child and the parents are awake. One week consists of 168 hours, of which one may sleep 68 hours. Then you have 100 hours left and work maybe close to 50 hours, so it's still more than half the time you have to spend with your children. So it is false to say that the person who is not at home with the children does not associate with the children. I have three children myself, and I have been with them even during the periods when I have worked. But it wasn't primarily what I was going to talk about. What we can see is that it will undoubtedly be children who are affected by this, because they are forced to attend a preschool earlier than the parents themselves judge to be right. I even think that we agree on this, even if we may disagree on how many could be involved. People can work in such a way, have income differences or working conditions, such as shift work and other things, which simply prevent them from taking parental leave days. They'll freeze inside, and the baby has to go to preschool earlier. Many times it is children in families who belong to yours and also to my constituents. What do you have to say to them about this?
i-e9721325013adbdf-431	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Linus Bylund, for the post! I believe, however, that it can be said that the current situation is that during the first year of life, women take four out of the five days of parental insurance. It does of course mean that even if you spend time together at other times, after working hours and not least during waking nights – we know that – women today are more present in everyday life with young children than men are. This has consequences, as I showed with the examples I took earlier. There are studies that have looked at a more equal outlet and what happens with the connection. I think Linus Bylund has a striking entrance to these issues in general. It is very strange, I think, to assume that women would somehow have easier or harder to be away from work than men have. That's why I think your question to me is very strange. Women work nights in hospitals and nursing homes, just as men often do in the male dominated parts of the labour market. This, of course, makes it just as difficult for women as it is for men to piece together working life and small children's life.
i-e9721325013adbdf-434	Madam President, I would like That in no way contradicts my question. I say that it affects families who have working conditions that are such that it is not possible to share parental leave in the way that you from your side want. They are then punished by freezing parental leave days. It does not matter whether it is the woman or the man who works in such a way, who has a higher income than the other and so on. It affects the family, because it must be decided that the child should start preschool earlier. This can't be anything new. I would also like to point out that I do not in any way deny that there is a problem with the skewed distribution. However, I deny that you can put months against each other and say that it is 14 months here and 4 months there, because of course you spend time with your children even if you work.
i-e9721325013adbdf-436	Madam President, I would like Of course you do. However, there are clear statistics showing what happens when you are the parent who takes out parental benefit days to a greater extent. It goes without saying that statistics say that it is women who take 14 months and men who take 4 months. That, of course, makes a difference. It is also the case that the parent who collects most of the parental allowance is also the one who tends to take on more of the unpaid homework. You might think that this is not really a big deal – a little vacuuming sometimes, right? But the thing is that those 47 minutes a day that women do more of unpaid domestic work than men add up to seven working weeks in a year and actually six full years in a working life. It is also the unequal distribution of parental benefit with and contributes to. We must dare to see this. There is no other social security system designed in this way. Nor was it intended when it was introduced in 1974 that parents should share so unequally and that this many years later we should have a distribution that means that women take out four out of five days when the children are young.
i-e9721325013adbdf-440	Madam President, I would like I remember when Annika Strandhäll was appointed Minister. She then spent a large part of her time talking about how important it is with consensus, cooperation and broad solutions. I very much welcome this, because I think it is important to have long-term rules of play in politics. But now that it's a good time, you don't seem to care. You have just set up an investigation to review parental insurance and where we in the Alliance are not invited. Now I hope from this debate and what I have heard you say that your message may be different and that it will actually be a parliamentary inquiry. This is particularly regrettable for the country's parents. It's an insurance policy that affects a lot of people. I also believe that it is very important to have broad grounding and long-term rules of play. Otherwise, it risks not being long-term, and that is where we want to get into parental insurance. I would also like to mention the gender equality bonus. You now choose to completely abolish it. I know that one argument when you raise the issue is that it has not produced any effect. But Försäkringskassan's own investigation says that it is due to a lack of information that few parents know about it. TCO, the organisation that you previously worked for, also complains that you now choose to completely abolish the gender equality bonus that they consider necessary. In fact, it also means the most to those with the lowest incomes. Why do you choose to go against a majority of Sweden's families? They disagree with you. They want you to be able to choose for yourself. Why do you choose to abolish an incentive for gender equality?
i-e9721325013adbdf-445	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Tina Ghasemi, for these recordings! As I said, I can only underline how pleased I am that apparently so many parties in the opposition are now seeing, just as we have been doing for a long time, the need for an overall review of parental insurance that can lead to a modern parental insurance policy that supports a modern and equal working life – a working life where women also participate fully. I am very pleased with the stretched hand, and I look forward to coming back to the way in which we can involve the opposition in this work. As far as the gender equality bonus is concerned, I want to be very clear. It hasn't worked. It is true that the evaluation of Försäkringskassan referred to by Tina Ghasemi shows that the gender equality bonus has been partly unknown. However, those parents who have actually known about the bonus are perfectly clear that it still has not affected how they have chosen to withdraw the parental allowance. Thus, it has not had the effect that was intended, namely a more equal set-aside. I am open to wise suggestions as to how we can even more stimulate parents to take their days more equally. But when it costs tax money, it must be proposals that realistically work.
i-e9721325013adbdf-448	Madam President, I would like Absolutely, and we have suggestions. Instead of choosing, as you, to abolish the equality bonus, we propose strengthening it. We give extra money to parents who choose to share equally while you do the opposite. It's not serious. Although we know that there is a lack of information and that financial incentives make a difference, you choose to abolish the gender equality bonus. I think that's the wrong way to go. Speaking of consensus, I am pleased that the Alliance can count on being included in the parliamentary inquiry to review parental insurance. This is an important message for us. We look forward to being part of this work because we think it is important. It is important that it is long-term, and it is important for Sweden's parents.
i-e9721325013adbdf-450	Madam President, I would like Let me be clear and say that I have not promised a parliamentary inquiry. I will come back with how we can involve the opposition in this, and I will take it with me that wishes for it are so clearly expressed. It is important to be clear when we talk about financial incentives. No, it is not that it is usually crucial for parents when they distribute parental leave. It is not the economic incentives that are widely felt. That's what several studies show. After the latest contract movement, we basically have the entire Swedish labour market collective agreement on parental pay, which means that you receive up to 90 per cent of your salary during six months when you take parental leave. This, of course, includes both women and men. So there are economic incentives directed at parents that the parties have taken responsibility for. I am pleased with the commitment to these issues. I hear that there are both thoughts and ideas, and I look forward to further reasoning.
i-e9721325013adbdf-454	Madam President, I would like I demand approval of the bill and rejection of the motions. Most of what has already been said in this debate, but I would nevertheless like to make a few points. It is important to remember that as early as 1974 when parental benefit was introduced, the issue of parental distribution was discussed. So this is not a new issue, and I am sure that the discussion will continue for many years. We see in the debate today that this is engaging. After just over 40 years of parental insurance, where both parents have the opportunity to leave work with their children, women still take the most parental allowance days. Women take out 75 percent and men 25 percent of the days. Only 15% of families in our country share parental leave equally. TCO's latest father's index shows that although fathers are increasing their take-out of parental leave, which is of course a good thing, today's rate of increase will take over 50 years before the country's fathers and mothers share equally. The consequences of the unequal set-aside will be great. For mothers, these include lower pay, lower career and development opportunities, and difficulties with the balance between family life and working life. Fathers do not have the same strong attachment to their children in their early days. There is a clear link for fathers between a small take-out of parental leave and the risk of less contact with children in the event of separation. There is also a link between the length of parental leave and how much domestic work is done and the care of children when returning to work after leaving. When the newspaper Comradeposten a few years ago asked 6,000 of its young readers who they were going to when they were sad, Mother was in first place. Dad came in fifth place. Yes, there are many arguments for a more equal parental allowance, and here we have a common responsibility. Madam President, I would like Now we are taking another step towards a more equal parental allowance by reserving another month within the parental allowance to each parent. The proposal reinforces incentives for equal pay and at the same time allows for parents' need for flexibility. It is also important to remember that as a result of the proposal, the child's access to both parents is expected to increase. It strengthens the relationship between children and parents in the short and long term. Madam President, I would like As I have said, I support the motion and reject the motions.
i-93nBnw6UYL3fLVXZ3gZdrY	Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal in the report and reject the reservations. This late in the debate, there is a risk that there will be some repetition. I'd like to apologize to the assembly. This is a complex or simple question. It depends on how we view it and how we value the weight of what we put in the different scales. I assume, however, that we agree that different expectations of women and men create a lack of equality. No one can dispute that. It is also undeniable that it is women who lose most from this system. This must be in the back of our minds when we discuss the design of parental insurance and what it leads to in the long run. Just as Maria Arnholm and others have so well reported, this leads to a significantly lower income for women and, in the long run, to lower pensions. This leads to unequal responsibility for children and domestic work. The latter point can probably also be linked to a lot of unhealthy aspects. Madam President, I would like In the best of worlds we would not have to quota such things here, but it would give itself. Perhaps in 1974 there was a pious hope that this would happen. Sometimes ideologies are raised, and parental insurance has a clear liberal starting point. It is an individual allowance for 240 days for each parent. It is therefore an individual right from the outset. There was flexibility in this, and it was perhaps a good idea. However, 40 years later, when the children are eight years old, men have only taken 25 percent of their parenting days. If we talk about the age of young children up to two years, the share of men is even lower. We have not discussed very much the first two months of reservations, but it is also an indisputable and well-documented fact that they have played a major role in expanding fathers at home with children. The fact that we are earmarking another month will benefit both women and men. Hopefully it gives a signal to society and creates the conditions for a more real freedom of choice. This is an important signal not least to the labour market, which can expect men too to take time off to be at home with their children. I have a personal little anecdote. I'm not going to enhance myself and say that I've taken so much parental leave, but when I was in open preschool with my daughter in the 1980s, I was the only father among 45 mothers. It was seen as almost a little suspicious. The unequality was that you didn't see the reason I was there, but I was considered to be very good. This is what I mean by expectations; no one expected me to show up. After all, progress has been made. It is about breaking norms and gender patterns and creating real choices and real choice for women too. Then I do not think that this should be overdramatized, Madam President. It is as if there were a major abyss between the second and the third earmarked month, but that is not the case, of course. This is a further step to increase incentives for a more even take-out of parenting days. As I said before, the consequences are that we have an uneven outlet. Now we earmark another 30 days for each parent so that it is 180 days. There are another 300 days of parental insurance where you can choose freely. I have a hope, although it may be naive, but if I was in 1974, I may be able to do so even now, 2015. Perhaps there is a breakpoint where there are expectations that fathers – both women and men – will be at home. If you're home for three months, you might take out more parenting days. It has turned out that the groups that have been hanging on to the previous reserved months have taken more out. The average may have risen, but some groups have taken days. Families have different conditions, and there must, of course, be room for different decisions to continue. There is no doubt that such flexibility fits into the world's most generous parental insurance, although we have three reserved months.
i-e9721325013adbdf-480	Madam President, I would like I just can't help but go upstairs and debate with Lars Tysklind. We're from the same area, Bohuslän. We have some common interests, such as fishing. We have somewhat like a dialect of yours. We have both read Waldemar Svensson for periods, and there is a history of freedom – the strongest expression in Bohuslän. Of course, it makes me ask the question: what makes us come to such different conclusions about a third month of fatherhood with our common background? This isn't a fight between you and me, Lars Tysklind. There is really no struggle between any parties today, but it is a struggle between the role of the state and the decision-making of the family. My question to Lars Tysklind is: How far are you prepared to go in that the role of the state will increase when it comes to parents' right to take out days, or rather, how much should the state's role in imposing quotas be?
i-e9721325013adbdf-483	Madam President, I would like The same constituency, but different conclusions – it may not be so unusual in political life, after all. A direct answer to the question of how far to go is about what I tried to finish with, namely that one always sees what a step leads to. When the People's Party was behind and pushing and taking the initiative for a first earmarked month, we probably thought it would have more effect than it did. Then the second month was introduced, and each such step has had an effect in terms of an equal set-aside. As I mentioned in my speech, we believe that this is a matter of real choice. If women and men have different expectations, there is no real choice. Whose freedom we talk about we can always discuss, but I discuss the freedom of each individual in the context.
i-e9721325013adbdf-486	Madam President, I would like It sounds at Lars Tysklind like it's been a first father month, a second and a third – but what comes next? I didn't really get an answer to that. The Social Insurance Agency conducted a survey in 2012 which showed that a large majority of parents – 89 per cent of women and 85 per cent of men – are satisfied with their distribution of parental leave. This is an increase since 2003. The People's Party doesn't have the people with them here. As far as the consultation bodies are concerned, a number of important bodies have expressed a negative opinion on compulsory quota. The Social Security Inspection, the Institute for Labour and Education Policy Evaluation, the Children's Ombudsman, Makalö Parents, Haro and others believe that additional quotas risk leading to a shorter time for the child together with the parents. The People's Party does not have the consultation bodies with them either. I don't really recognize the People's Party. I know the history pretty well, because I'm from Bohuslän. Is it liberal feminism that governs the People's Party these days?
i-e9721325013adbdf-490	Madam President, I would like If the definition of liberal feminism is that we will now vote in favour of a third earmarked month, then that is the case, but I have no views on that. In my speech, I tried completely to avoid the word 'father's month', because that leads the idea wrong. Maybe it's a little symptomatic that Roland Utbolt says father's month. It is a bit exciting that the starting point is apparently that it is men who should have the freedom of choice in parenthood, that it is forced quota and that men are ordered to take care of their children. But that is not the picture we should have, it is that we need to be clear that by introducing a third reserved month we are sending signals to society, not least the labour market, that we should have equal expectations of women and men being at home and caring for their children. That is what this is all about, and what it leads to in the long run we will have to follow up. I am also opposed to compulsory quotas. Here you get a right to be at home with your children for 240 days while growing up, mostly up to four years but then up to twelve years. So it is not so much coercion. Rather, there are an enormous number of opportunities and rights in this. As I concluded, there is still flexibility in parental insurance. Is there anyone concerned about women being forced into quotas for the 90 days? No, the problem is apparently on the male side. But since there are now 300 days left that you can share anyway, there is much flexibility left in parental insurance.
i-e9721325013adbdf-495	Madam President, I would like Over the past year, we have been able to celebrate many feminist milestones in our history. I was born in 1975, turned 40 this summer and is equal to most of these. This year we celebrate 40 years with statutory preschool. This year we celebrate 40 years of Swedish liberal abortion law. Last year, the parents' insurance was 40 years old. I am proud to live in Sweden – one of the world's most equal, liberal and free countries where people, regardless of gender or identity, can realize their life dreams without conservative, dusty gender roles. But standing in the speaker's seat on this day also gives perspective on how much remains to be done and how slowly the reforms have actually gone. The first Swedish so-called father's month, the earmarked month of parental insurance, came on a popular party initiative in 1995. The second came on 1 January 2002. I, who have been elected to this Parliament since September 2002, have never been able to vote on a third earmarked month of parental insurance until now – 13 years later. Some call it communism. Others call it abuse of family decision-making. I call it liberal feminism. Research is quite clear on the positive effects on gender equality, which many have raised in the debate today, but also on fathers' contact with their beloved children and on mothers' opportunities in the labour market. Unfortunately, gender equality rarely comes on its own. Gender equality requires conscious policies. Equality begins in the family. And gender equality is not shaped in a political vacuum, where recognised victories should be rolled back and where future victories should be blocked. We in here know that for every earmarked month in parental insurance that Parliament has democratically decided on, more fathers have chosen to stay home with their children. We know the connection that when Sweden introduced individualized taxation in the early 1970s, married women's labour force participation increased from 50 to over 80 per cent in just a decade. We know that any political reform that has given both women and men the opportunity to be both parents and professionals has created a society in which more citizens can support themselves and become economically independent – the basis of the work line, for which the alliance government for which I myself was a minister so strongly and forcefully pleaded. Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to quote Elisabeth Tamm, who was a liberal and one of the first five women elected to Parliament after women had been given the right to vote in 1921. She stressed in this House the importance of daring to stand up for a sentence which, although not popular, might mark a future period. I myself say in politics that we should match our history and lead our time in order to earn our future. Some debater referred to the history of liberal feminism. It has characterized the People's Party for over 100 years and will continue to characterize our party for many years. To give my own two daughters a more equal future, it is obvious to me to vote in favour of decisions that go in this direction.
i-e9721325013adbdf-508	Madam President, I would like A majority of Sweden's population does not want a quota of parental insurance, and I do not want that either. I am very opposed to quota parental insurance. The definition of the worst kind of politicians I think is those who think they know better than others how to live their lives, one who should decide what everyday life should look like for someone else, just because they themselves think it's good. Who can understand what my family thinks is better than myself or what someone else in a family thinks is good than just them? Collectively deciding over others is pure socialism. Families are different. There are many who have witnessed it, and I agree – there are nuclear and star families, parents have different needs and opportunities, and children have different needs. The conclusion of this socialist government is that we should then quota parental insurance. My conclusion is quite different: since everyone is different, we must ensure that everyone has the opportunity to choose for themselves. The Minister of Social Security said earlier that there were also problems for entrepreneurs with this insurance. Yet, she chooses to make it even harder for them to choose. I know female entrepreneurs who can't be out of business for three months. Then this government creates a society that I didn't think they wanted, namely that the most privileged can continue to choose, because they may be able to afford to let the man – or his partner or whatever it may be – be at home without pay for three months, but all the others who are struggling must live politically correctly to fit into the society of the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party. If we really want to improve gender equality, there are much better measures to be taken. This would require much more attention in an area where many women are or can become entrepreneurs, namely the care sector. We have far fewer female entrepreneurs in Sweden. If you look at other countries that have more private activities in school, health care and care, you can see that they have many more. But you want to make things worse for these women so that it is not possible to run businesses, and you should not be allowed to make profits that everyone else can make in the male professions in the construction sector, which also benefits from those subsidies. You can also make sure to improve RUT services, and if you want to look at parental insurance, you have to see if there are other things. Perhaps someone other than the parents can take part in parental insurance, to make it much better. Madam President, I would like to conclude just as I started by talking about this majority, which is against, and give a little greeting to my alliance friends in the People's Party. If you look at the majority that is against, you can say that, among the alliance well-being of jare, an even greater majority is opposed to quota parental insurance.
i-e9721325013adbdf-513	Madam President, I would like I felt a little tempted when my party was apostrophated. I can only say that listening to Isabella Hökmark's comments, it is undeniably felt that the new Moderates have been changed to the old Moderates. I very much regret that, as a bourgeois feminist. I would also like to remind you how many highly leading moderate representatives sounded on this particular issue just a few years ago. One example is Hillevi Engström, who was a gender equality spokesperson for the Moderates and also a minister of the Alliance Government. She clearly opened up to what we are going to decide on today: a third earmarked month in parental insurance. I would also like to quote one of the world's and Europe's most valued finance ministers, namely Anders Borg. He is entirely on my side on this issue and believes that it is self-evident as both a liberal and a feminist that we must have high ambitions for equality and want to move forward. I can also quote former Prime Minister Fredrik Reinfeldt, who, of course, respected his party's decision to vote on the matter but did not want to close the door for a third father month. Surely there have been leading politicians also in the Moderates, not least in its youth associations and among students and schoolchildren, who think that this reform is quite self-evident to non-socialist politicians.
i-e9721325013adbdf-518	Madam President, I would like I call myself neither new nor old moderate. I call myself moderate. I am proud to stand on the individual's side, where you have to choose for yourself, where freedom of choice and freedom are the great key words in front of trixing and trying to get some statistics that suit a politician better.
i-e9721325013adbdf-519	Madam President, I would like I believe that it is important – the history of the People's Party and the Moderates differs, above all, in terms of the view of equality – that we Liberals have always considered and realised, on good historical grounds, that when it comes to equality between women and men, one must dare to raise one's eyes and to have the courage to look to see that one sometimes also has to have politics on that front. I share what Isabella Hökmark said very clearly about the fact that there is a big difference between socialist feminism and liberal feminism when it comes to the view of women's entrepreneurship. Here we stand up strongly for freedom of choice in health care and in school, and we see that many women run that type of business. They should be allowed to continue doing so for good reason. There is a big difference in the view of how to support yourself and work as an entrepreneur. But it is also recognised that gender equality is often somewhat greater. Liberal feminism is for me more than just being for RUT services or women's freedom of choice to run healthcare, school and care businesses. It is also a matter of realizing that the most difficult place to change is the most private one. That's why it's private political for us, and that's why we Liberals – and we've thought since the beginning of the 1990s – think that it's important to be able to share parental leave more. I agree that politicians should not go in and tinker in the slightest detail. But we know from historical experience that if any reform has produced concrete results, it was the first earmarked father month. When it was introduced, men began taking out a month off with their children. The same thing happened when we got the second earmarked month. So it is clear how much impact this has had. I do not think that one can fit in on this issue and believe that equality comes of itself, but sometimes one must dare to take these political decisions as well. We do that in the People's Party today at the vote.
i-e9721325013adbdf-523	Mr President, I would like to Being a feminist is not for me to decide over other people's lives, it is to create and provide opportunities for people to decide for themselves. If the definition of being a feminist is to decide over others, I'm not. But I consider myself to be, because I am in favour of women and men having the same opportunities in a good labour market. However, to sit over families by forcing them to make politically correct choices in order to benefit from parental insurance, I am totally against it. I find it sad that the People's Party, which I thought was a liberal party, is on that line.
i-e9721325013adbdf-524	Mr President, I would like to I have followed this debate with a mixture of interest and horror – interest in the interesting and important nature of these issues, and fear that I feel the strong non-liberal wind sweeping through the House on this issue. The signal is clear. Politicians should be in charge of individuals. Politicians know better than the family how to distribute parental leave. For me, it is as non-liberal as it can be. Liberalism is about creating equal opportunities. It is not about the same outcome, because the same outcome is very much about the conditions for each individual. We are all different, and we shall also highlight those differences. But in this debate I hear generalisations. Here you make an interpreter for how families reason when they choose to divide parent's days among themselves. Nowhere do you reflect that this is perhaps how the family makes its choice. Perhaps it is of his own free will that one parent takes greater responsibility than the other. Nowhere do I hear this. I can agree with many descriptions of wage developments and pensions. But at the end of the day, people are capable of making their own decisions. People should be allowed to make their own decisions. That is the basis of a liberal tradition. I also get a little confused when I hear alliance colleagues belonging to so-called liberal parties discussing these issues. When it comes to how parents view this issue, there is massive opposition to politicians interfering in how to distribute parental leave. 89 and 80 percent of the respective genders are opposed to politicians interfering. This means that we have a People's Party Liberals who are neither a popular party nor a liberal party. It's troubling. 75 years ago Lars-Lars-Erik Larsson wrote the suite Enclave God. I think today we could write a suite with the name Förkläst Socialism.
i-e9721325013adbdf-528	Mr President, I would like to I can say that I am pleased with Patrick Reslow's concern for the People's Party and Liberalism, but I can guarantee that we stand for liberal basic ideas. We are talking about women and men's equal opportunities and equal opportunities. Parental insurance came from a very liberal point of view, and it allowed for just as much individuality. Perhaps then there was the somewhat naive idea that everyone used their right in a similar way. Theoretically, you can say that you have equal opportunities. But what the individual chooses depends very much on what I mentioned in my speech that Patrick Reslow may not have heard. It's about society's expectations. It is no coincidence that the outcome will be as it will be, but it is based on expectations in society. I don't know if it was Patrick Reslow talking about frozen days. Of course it is different between different families, but we are now talking about 90 reserved days, and this applies to both women and men. We are also talking about four years, and we are talking about being able to take out parental insurance in eighth days, quarter days, half days and full days. Then it would be very strange if you were not able to have that space to be with your children with the support of the state. I cannot see that this could be a problem. As I said, we must have a society where there is real freedom of choice for each individual, both women and men.
i-e9721325013adbdf-532	Mr President, I would like to I heard Lars Tysklind's speech. I was in the chamber then. What I also heard during that speech was doubts as to where these borders are going. Lars Tysklind may be able to explain how far you should go in this reform iver that goes out over the parents' choices. How far is Lars Tysklind prepared to go? Is it three months, is it four months or is it all the parenting days? What does Lars Tysklind really think of the fact that we already have a completely individualised parental insurance policy where the parent who does not leave his days to the other parent has a responsibility to take out those days? Taking over the other's days is not something that happens automatically; it is an agreement in the family. What, then, does Lars Tysklind think is so wrong with that agreement as a representative of a liberal ideology? I think that would be interesting to know.
i-e9721325013adbdf-534	Mr President, I would like to I have a feeling we're talking past each other a little bit here. You can always pick up examples of different things. For example, a parent refuses to hand over his days and even refuses to take them out on his own. You can always go to such extremes. That is exactly what we have discussed here – families are different. A further month's reservation is a clear signal that men are also expected to take care of their children. I can say without shaking the cuff that this will benefit men. The end result of different expectations for women and men is that women have a significantly lower income and lower pensions, but it also disadvantages men who have expectations of not taking out parental benefit. I would say that everyone benefits from a more even payment of parental benefit.
i-e9721325013adbdf-535	Mr President, I would like to I think the problem is that a massive majority of parents – 89 and 80 % respectively – are satisfied with the current regulatory framework. If 89 per cent and 80 per cent are satisfied with the current regulatory framework, what can explain the different outcome? I miss this in the analysis. If there is such a massive majority that is satisfied, it can be about nothing more than the fact that this has actually been agreed and that both parties are satisfied. It is sad that we are seeing here an unholy alliance between socialists and liberals. I also wonder: how far is this going to go? How far will this reformer go out on the will of his parents? And what's the next step? Should you then quota the VAB days as well? That raises many questions, Mr President, and I have not received an answer to them during this debate.
