i-692664c87d3f1408-4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Hans Wallmark has asked me what I mean by the fact that NATO would only be the answer to one or two things, if Sweden and Finland could not have more effective cooperation if both countries were members of NATO and if it would not have had a negative impact on Sweden's security policy situation if the Social Democrats' proposal to reduce the defence budget had become a reality by 2010. In connection with the state visit to Lithuania in October, I had the privilege of meeting a group of students at Vilnius University and discussing security policy issues. It was a good conversation, and of course it was both broader and deeper than what loose quotes can convey. During the discussion, I highlighted the breadth of the security policy challenges we face. It is about Russia's aggression against Ukraine but also about the conflict in Syria, Isil's ravages, the refugee crisis, the climate threat and challenges linked to poverty and development. In my view, membership of NATO is not the answer to all these challenges. The broad security policy deserves more than just a NATO debate. In accordance with the broad majority of agreed defence policy proposals, the Government deepens our bilateral and multilateral security and defence cooperation. This concerns cooperation in the Nordic countries, with the Baltic countries, within the EU, the OSSE and the UN, in the partnership with NATO and through the transatlantic link. Through these collaborations, we contribute to security and stability in our neighbourhood both in the near future and in the longer term. Among these collaborations, the Government highly values Finnish-Swedish cooperation. Sweden and Finland are currently developing defence cooperation both in depth and across the board. Among other things, we plan to have as an option to act jointly also in crisis and conflict. It is based on the fact that we have similar security policy starting points. A Swedish membership of NATO would therefore also affect Finland. At the same time, it is self-evident that Sweden respects other countries' safety policy choices, just as our partners respect ours. Sweden has chosen a line of cooperation and not a line of membership in relation to NATO. The government is thus pursuing the same line as previous governments. Security policy must be managed responsibly, in the long term and with broad parliamentary support. There shall be no uncertainty about the Swedish security policy line. Sweden's freedom of alliance contributes to stability in the neighbourhood and gives us freedom of action. With regard to the defence grants, I am pleased that the government, together with the other parties within the framework of the defence agreement, has managed to reverse the trend and that Sweden is now investing in defence.
i-692664c87d3f1408-10	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister for Foreign Affairs. When I saw this newspaper article in an English version of a Lithuanian newspaper and the Foreign Minister said that NATO is the answer to just one or two things, I thought a little jokingly that the Foreign Minister is thinking about peace and security. In his reply, the Minister for Foreign Affairs now refers to the fact that there may be loose quotes in a newspaper article which, of course, does not reflect a full conversation. That's why I wake up this interpellation, so that we can have an exchange and really understand how you think and reason. This was also the case a few months ago when the Minister for Foreign Affairs and I had another interpellation debate where I had a speech as a starting point where Prime Minister Stefan Löfven was quoted and discussed the buffer zone. I thought it was a clearer discussion and have noted with pleasure that this kind of reasoning does not come back as often in the debate. With regard to Sweden's relationship with NATO, perhaps we should be completely honest, Madam President, and admit that we think a little differently. It is just as the Minister for Foreign Affairs says that there are parties and representatives who stand for a membership line. I'm one of them. I am also trying to explain and develop why I believe that membership is fundamentally good. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs says, NATO cannot, of course, be the solution to all issues, just as European cooperation, the UN, Nordic cooperation, Swedish-Finnish cooperation or Nordic-Baltic cooperation are not the answer to all issues. But the interesting thing is that when we are involved, committed and involved in all these collaborations, they complement each other. That is when you build security and cooperation. That is why I am still surprised that it is not possible to see the benefits of NATO membership when we are such dedicated internationalists and cooperate in the EU, the OSSE, the UN and regional cooperation. That is why I think there is every reason to hold the NATO membership debate in Sweden. Madam President, I would like Something's happened. We're in a compromised security situation. We can say this absolutely regardless of whether we are in favour of membership or not. We have the illegal annexation of Crimea, and we have a deeper and continued rearmament on the Russian side. We have a new Ö stersjö area. FOI, in its latest research report, which we also discussed today at the Committee on Defence, describes that the Baltic Sea region has moved from the periphery of security policy towards becoming part of its centre. At the same time, NATO has also developed. It has gone from being a more general security organisation to now also becoming a defence alliance. That is also what the Secretary-General of NATO, Jens Stoltenberg, a Norwegian social democrat, told us a few days ago, namely that there is a difference between being a partner country and being a Member State. There's a difference. With membership comes the binding security guarantees. That is the whole question that I think the Social Democrats and this government are unfortunately avoiding. That is why NATO is the answer to at least two questions, namely the question of peace and the question of security. I think the government avoids that. Finally, Madam President, something was written about the Foreign Minister's statement on defence expenditure. Then I would just like to remind the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the House that in recent years we have met with Socialist proposals for lower defence budgets, for example in 2008, 2009 and 2010. But I am pleased with the defense arrangement I have been involved in drawing for the Moderates.
i-692664c87d3f1408-16	Madam President, I would like The issue of NATO and the security situation are important. I am therefore pleased that we have this opportunity to discuss this with the Minister for Foreign Affairs. We have an increasingly tough security policy situation, and we see that this is not something that passes. We had a visit to the Committee on Defence today by FOI, and they pointed out that there is no light but that we have to prepare for a longer, tougher situation. The Christian Democrats are a party which has previously rejected NATO membership but which then took a position that we should investigate the issue. Now we had a national act some time ago when we took a stand that Sweden in the security policy situation we also have should take the full step and apply to become a full member, not least in the light of the security policy situation. We will invest in a strong defence, and the agreement we made is a trend break and something important. But even with the supplements that take place it is too little. Now we're betting just over 1%. Should we bet more, as when I did my military service and they bet 2 1⁄2 percent of the bnp, it would still not be enough. We wouldn't be a deterrent. We must also look at the realities. From the Swedish side, we have said with great parliamentary agreement that it is a declaration of solidarity. We will be able to accept help, and we will be able to provide help. Sweden is where it is. And now the Baltic countries are members of NATO. Russia has deployed robots covering every square metre of Baltic territory. With their robots they actually reach a bit into Swedish territory as well. However, given the map, one might wonder how in all the world NATO can come to the rescue of the Baltic States if the worst happens, in a crisis or in a conflict. There are no other options except to fly over Norway and Sweden. Anyone who gets into it can understand that. It would, of course, be much easier if Sweden were a full member of NATO. We would then be able to work together and agree on this. Otherwise, in the event of a crisis, there is a risk that there will be a race for Swedish territory. Both sides would like to borrow a strategically important piece of Sweden, probably part of Gotland. It would be interesting to hear the Foreign Minister's thoughts on it. Does the government think about what would happen in such a situation? We've said we'll do it. Is it not reasonable to take height for what can happen in such a situation? Isn't it better to have prepared this? Perhaps we can prepare for that even if we are not members of NATO. It would be interesting to hear the Foreign Minister's views on this. We have said before that we should be non-aligned and neutral in war. We're not neutral anymore. It's been a long time since we stopped saying that. Let's take a stand. What purpose, then, is the freedom of alliance if the second part is not there? I would like to have an answer to that question.
i-692664c87d3f1408-25	Madam President, I would like I would also like to thank the Foreign Minister for his reply and the interpellant for asking the questions. The changing current situation in our neighbourhood and the steady changes in the field of security policy affect our work locally and nationally, but also our cooperation with other countries. The Center Party has over the past few years analysed what steps Sweden needs to take to meet the changes, not least in the past year, based on our national preparedness, our national defence capabilities and also the developed collaborations that have emerged. This applies in particular to many NATO countries and also within the framework of EU membership over the last 20 years. We have changed our security policy starting point. The freedom of the Alliance is no longer the same as during the Cold War. Our dependence on cooperation, civilly and also in military fields, is increasing. We have declarations of solidarity that, not least in our cooperation within the European Union, we will help and support if conditions change. It is important to be able to focus on the long term and to analyse and know which steps are important and right to take now. It is therefore important that the analyses to be carried out on the agreement that we made in the defence decision can find good support for the continued discussion. It is also important that we can approach the issue of NATO membership and what it could mean in the long term, in order to strengthen our defence capabilities but also to contribute to stability in our neighbourhood. We see that the question is ripening. More and more people in the country are talking about the importance of NATO membership and that it needs to be the next step, in order to clarify our security policy position. I would welcome the fact that more people in this House are raising the issue and that we are focusing on coming to the next step. We need the declaration of mutual solidarity for help and cooperation that would develop our military capabilities. This applies not least in view of increased training activities in Russia, increased training activities along our borders by air and by sea. We see increased and changed behaviour that we have to face. We do that best together with others. And we do it best in cooperation with NATO. What analysis is the basis for the government's regular announcement that the platform is solid? It does not want to change its position while developing bilateral cooperation and in practice undermining the freedom of alliance step by step. How many more steps will Sweden take? How strong are we to send? And what security policy analysis is the basis for the government's continuing ambiguous approach to the issues? It is extremely important that the issue be discussed so that we can move on to the next step, also in order to get closer to membership seriously.
i-692664c87d3f1408-34	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank you for the debate. It is an important debate. I fully agree with Mr Bäckström's questions. However, I would also like to point out that we have had a debate in this House on security policy in the past and have heard about the Government's ambition to have a security policy group. There have been a little different offers about this from the government during the past year. It is absolutely right that security policy deserves more than just a NATO debate. But it also deserves a NATO debate. It's important. I want to concentrate on one thing. The government says they follow the same line as previous governments. That is true, with some changes from the initial values contained in the first government declaration because we are not members of any military alliance. When the government at the same time says that it must be handled responsibly, in the long term and with broad parliamentary support, I wonder what broad parliamentary support looks like. I note that the Social Democrats and the Green Party are now based on the Left Party and the Swedish Democrats in terms of broad parliamentary support. If I were Foreign Minister and responsible for security policy work that should be long-term, responsible and broad-ranging, I would ask myself whether the reality has not changed here too and calls for a new thought from the government on NATO and NATO membership.
i-692664c87d3f1408-39	Madam President, I would like Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to reiterate that we believe that security policy must be handled responsibly, in the long term and with broad parliamentary support. Sweden retains the course. It remains clear that we are militaryly non-aligned and that we should not seek membership of NATO. We follow the same line as previous governments. Excuse me, but you're the one who moved. It is you who do not live up to what was stated in the defence policy proposal. It is you who have changed their attitude, one party after another, based on opinion polls and other things. You're the ones who moved. And do you think it is the right time now that we are living in a troubled world to signal that it is uncertain what our security policy stance should be? The agreement would rest on three legs. The first leg was that we remained militaryly non-aligned, as we have been for more than 200 years. We all think it has served us well so far. Otherwise, you can describe why it doesn't. Why doesn't it serve us well? What's changed? The other leg was that we should invest in the defense and rebuild it. It is clear that NATO will press for Sweden to invest even more in military defence. The third leg was cooperation. Can you imagine a situation where it is not about what relationship we have with other countries including our Baltic and Nordic friends? Of course it's about cooperation. That is why we have invested in, deepened and broadened these partnerships. But you do not come from the fact that it is you who have changed your stance, and the Minister for Defence has repeated this repeatedly. In the end, it will sound as if we are the only ones defending the deal we struck. I am very critical of this. It is so easy to break what should be this country's clearest signal also in terms of defence and security policy. It was a large and broad agreement and we would stick together on it. I think fear is a bad counselor. Unfortunately, I believe it is fear that has allowed your stance on these issues to be guided. We continue to invest in cooperation, to stick to the fact that, in a particularly troubled time, we are not changing our security policy stance, but we are developing our cooperation and ensuring that we are effective and loyal. What the Center Party has done is to make it conditional on what is happening in Finland, nuclear weapons and all that is happening now. In addition, this is a rather strong argument against NATO membership. If we want to continue to maintain a nuclear disarmament line, we should be consistent also in our approach to NATO membership, because this puts us under a nuclear umbrella, we cannot get away from that. Finally, you can say half in jokes and half in earnest: What if there is a NATO with a strong American influence and with Donald Trump as President of the United States? Maybe it wouldn't be so successful.
i-692664c87d3f1408-50	Madam President, I would like The Foreign Minister's speculation that Donald Trump could be President of the United States, I leave it to the Foreign Minister to think about. This is highly speculative. On the other hand, it is a reality that Russia's President is called Putin. I must turn to the Foreign Minister's attempt to introduce some kind of thought-bomb law by means of the broad defence agreement that we have entered into. Madam President, Madam Minister for Foreign Affairs. I myself participated in the negotiations that lasted for a number of weeks. The negotiations were complicated and difficult, but they led to a result. We came up with something. Something that I have repeatedly emphasised is respect for the views of other parties. I am well aware of the Congress decisions taken by the Social Democrats and the Green Party at their respective congresses. I therefore understand that it is not possible to persuade them to become dedicated NATO friends. In the same way, I have always asked for respect for the kind of decision that my party has taken. There is no doubt whatsoever, Madam President, about where the Moderates stand in view of NATO membership. This is not written away by a defence arrangement that will then become a law of thought. What we did was set up a broad security policy investigation to investigate the conditions for various forms of cooperation, Nordic-Baltic, Nordic-Finnish, including NATO membership. That is why the debate that we are now conducting is outside. I still think the defense arrangement was a good thing. It is a clear signal in a troubled world. That is precisely what is central and lacking in the argument of the Foreign Minister, namely the deteriorating security situation. We are seeing a new Baltic Sea region with a significantly deteriorating situation in view of the annexation of Crimea, the Russian armament, violations and incidents. Recently, an Estonian border police officer was kidnapped. I commended the Minister for Foreign Affairs because, with her Nordic and Baltic colleagues, she made a clear statement that he would be sent back, and he was also extradited to Estonia. So the situation is deteriorating. More and more people will then think that a reasonable response should be to obtain the kind of binding security guarantees that form part of NATO membership. So, Madam President, I am interpreting, for example, the Centre Party and the new and clear message of the Christian Democrats. As a partner country, Sweden does not have any security guarantees. We lack decision-making rights on a number of essential issues, for example when it comes to different types of actions based on international international international law. But we have to wait while the decisions are made, and then we are called in and participate in these exercises – also often in a much appreciated way. This has been the case in Afghanistan, Kosovo and Libya, and we should be proud of this and the difference that Sweden has contributed to through various forms of NATO-led efforts. The new deteriorating situation should lead to a reflection on the importance of considering the right of decision that we want. The challenges are equal for Sweden and Finland, but we are responsible for our own security and defence orientation. Then we are happy to cooperate, cooperate and engage in a dialogue with Finland. Finally, I find it interesting that this debate has attracted Mikael Oscarsson, Daniel Bäckström and Kerstin Lundgren. It shows that we are doing this together, and it can also serve as an illustration of cooperation. It is in cooperation with others that we are building security. That is what we are building together and, Madam President, there is room for more.
i-692664c87d3f1408-60	Madam President, I would like The defence policy deal was very important and a trend break. It was the first time since the beginning of the 1990s that there was an increase in funding. But it is afar from the fact that the Christian Democrats would in any way contribute to disfellowshipping us from talking about where we stand on the NATO issue. It was not the idea of the defence policy proposal, nor of the preparation that preceded it. It was good that an investigation was set up. It goes without saying that the Christian Democrats want to show the good arguments that there are for Sweden to take the step fully. The former Social Democratic Prime Minister of Norway, Jens Stoltenberg, has said: It is almost impossible to stand closer to NATO than Sweden does without being a member. But no protection can Sweden count on. We must be able to discuss that difference. Is that really how it's supposed to be? What I tried to say in my previous speech was that a Swedish NATO membership would increase both our own and our neighbours' security and contribute to greater stability in our part of the world. I could not hear with my ears any comment on the question that I asked about what our freedom of alliance would serve. In the past it was that we should be neutral in a crisis or war situation, but we have released ourselves from that. We've told you we'll be there for our world if anything happens. My question is: What is the purpose of freedom of alliance? I would like to have a comment on that question.
i-692664c87d3f1408-64	Madam President, I would like I participated as the representative of the Center Party in the talks that we five six parties held and which landed in the broad agreement involving five parties in this House. It was an extensive and very important work that was done. There were unheard of discussions about national focus and how to develop our long-term defence capabilities, but there were also discussions that we eventually met with the investigative part quoted earlier in the debate. This does not mean that it clarifies different aspects of where the Alliance stands politically, but we agreed on a formulation of how we should conduct an investigation. It says that we should look at many different international collaborations. It is extremely important that this analysis also includes a NATO perspective. It is mentioned in this wording. Some lines are also mentioned later. Then we have different positions on the issue. After we made the defense agreement, the Center Party has made a clear decision. A convincing majority in our party has agreed that our line now is that we think that Sweden should start a process where we work for Swedish NATO membership. We need to work broad and long-term. At this time, it is extremely important that we clarify our position. Clarifying our actual situation statement contributes to stability in our neighbourhood. The impact of membership is also important in order to help our neighbours in the event that they are exposed to an increased military threat. This issue will be very important for our security policy for a long time to come.
i-692664c87d3f1408-67	Madam President, I would like I hear the Foreign Minister say that she and the government stand by the settlement. The Social Democrats and the Green Party stand by it. The concern is that reality is changing. And when reality changes, Madam President, whether it is migration issues, where we see the government changing its mind, or whether it is security policy, we need to relate to the new reality. From our side, it is quite clear that we have analysed this and taken a stand for a sustainable, long-term and solidarity policy that we hope will bring together broader support in Sweden. Our position is quite clear. We have reservations, but these are the same reservations as Norway, our neighbours, have had in the matter of not having nuclear or stationary troops on their territory. There's nothing strange about this. But, Madam President, if reality and broad parliamentary support change, how does the government relate to that change? The Social Democrats are now seeking support from the Green Party, the Left Party and the Swedish Democrats for Swedish Security Policy. The question is whether it is sufficiently broad, strong and sustainable for the government and the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I would also like to remind the Minister for Foreign Affairs that last spring it was said that a national security strategy would be developed. It would be invited to talk about it in the spring. We have not yet seen anything of this.
i-692664c87d3f1408-71	Madam President, I would like I believe that the Swedish people appreciate that the government is very clear about security policy at a time of great concern and that we do not leave, for example, the defence policy proposal, where we said it would rest on these three elements. It is your parties that have moved you. You've changed your position. The Center Party has taken a new decision – after some agony, I can understand, because you were previously rather one of those who said no to NATO membership. You have done so with reservations that are unrealistic; at present it is quite clear what Finland thinks about this matter. They have indicated very clearly that they will not apply for NATO membership. You have, of course, linked this to our working together with Finland and continuing our cooperation with Finland. As far as nuclear weapons are concerned, we know that it is a unilateral commitment from these two countries that says that we do not want nuclear weapons in peacetime. That's as far as you can go. There is no agreement on that. Of course, the nuclear issue remains important, and not insignificant to the Swedish people either, because we have a high profile and have pushed the issue. We do not think it will be a safer world if we invest more in nuclear weapons. We don't want them deployed. But you may have ideas about where they will be deployed in Sweden one day if you join NATO. Where do you want them? I think it's a little rude. I think it rests on you to say why the military freedom of alliance does not work. I do not think it is right to let the fear of Russia govern so that we change our focus on security policy. I believe that in the past we have experienced difficult situations in which the military freedom of alliance served us well. At a time of anxiety when we see an aggressive Russia, we do not think it is time to change our security policy and position. Then, if ever, it is important to say what is in the orientation bill: a threat to peace and our security is best avoided in community and cooperation with other countries. Sweden is not in any military alliance. That is what is in the orientation bill, and one might think that the parties that have put up with it should actually also stand up in the debate and defend our security policy stance. What happens is that we are making a loss of sovereignty. You can never get away from that. We are free to make decisions. It's not unimportant who's president of the United States. Do you remember what it was like during Bush? It wasn't unimportant who was president of the United States at the time. It also controls very much how NATO acts. He didn't say that. He said that Sweden under Section 5 of the Defence Obligation cannot request support, but we have a good cooperation. Why shouldn't it have served us well? We have been able to retain our sovereignty and our right to decide for ourselves what cooperation we want to enter into and how deep and how broad we want to do so. We have made an important contribution in all these different collaborations and will continue to do so. We're just following the orientation bill. We will do nothing without Finland being informed, and hopefully Finland is acting together with Sweden. Something else would be deeply irresponsible. I think it is up to you to say what is not working. What is wrong with military alliance freedom?
i-692664c87d3f1408-80	Madam President, I would like My interpellation was about the Foreign Minister's statement that NATO would only be a response to one or two things. Unfortunately, I cannot say that I have received an answer to my question or even the position of the Social Democrats and the Government has been clarified. Of course, there is a huge difference between partnership and membership. As a partner country, we do not have binding security guarantees. We can hope, believe and wish, but the binding is only in membership. We do not have full decision-making rights. We'll have to play our part. We can also be asked. But you only have the right to decide as a member, not as a partner. We cannot achieve fully functioning Nordic cooperation with less than the fact that all the Nordic countries are part of it. Three of them – Norway, Denmark and Iceland – are NATO members. Sweden and Finland are so far outside. Madam President, I would like I think Kerstin Lundgren's speech was very important and central. It has historically been the case that the Centre Party and the Social Democrats have for decades defined the Swedish policy of freedom of alliance. Now the Center clearly marks the will for membership. I think that should affect a former ally with whom one had previously had a common understanding. I wonder that the Social Democrats seem to be so indifferent to both the changes taking place in the outside world and those taking place in Sweden. It is, of course, a change that as membership parties in addition to the Moderates and the People's Party, there are now also the Center Party and the Christian Democrats. This is a change. It persists and depends on something. That is what we debaters in the pulpit, Members and parties are repeatedly trying to say. It's a deteriorating environment we're in. What is the answer to those questions? The Secretary of State says we should work together. I say that there is a difference between partnership and membership. I say you can't navigate in a new time after an old map.
i-692664c87d3f1408-86	Madam President, I would like I continue to believe that we must act responsibly with a historical anchoring and understanding of Sweden's position on this issue of security policy as well. We must do so in the long term, and we must have broad parliamentary support. It wasn't entirely unanimous in the Center Party, was it? I understood that such a decision was made under great agony. Sweden retains the course and remains clear. We cannot be clearer. We have not changed, as some of the parties represented here in the debate have done. We stand by the fact that we do not want that loss of sovereignty. We want to be able to decide on our own what cooperation we should be involved in. We believe it has served us well. It should not be underestimated that it has contributed to peace and security that we have had that attitude. We have gained great respect around the world for our attitude. It is consistent because it is linked to other policies. We will stand firm that we also need to equip our defenses. It is another invaluable piece of security policy. We continue to decide for ourselves on our cooperation. Even if you can say that you get influence, you also get unlocked in an organization that makes many difficult and important decisions. We're still standing in the middle of deals we have. We hope that it will be more than just a handshake one day and that since the next day you can change your posture. We have seen in some other areas how the opposition acts. This is too important for that. We intend to continue to stick to what we described in the Declaration of Government. We hope that other parties will also understand that this is what serves us best as a security policy platform.
i-692664c87d3f1408-92	Madam President, I would like Amineh Kakabaveh has asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs what she intends to do to secure wages throughout the supply chain, down to the workplaces of the day-earners – particularly in dangerous jobs such as the agricultural sector – in the case of products procured through public procurement, which means that the children of farm workers are not forced to work to solve the family's livelihood problems, but instead have the opportunity to be children and go to school and get an education. Mr Kakabaveh has also asked what the Minister intends to do when it comes to forming opinion and building networks with a view to creating conditions for development that lead away from child labour in the world and what the Minister intends to do in preparation for the conference on child labour that will be held in Argentina in 2017 and whether the Minister intends to send a special delegation to the conference. The interpellation has been handed over to me for reply. Over the last decade, the number of child workers has fallen from 246 million to 168 million. But that's not enough. Any abuse of children is unacceptable regardless of where in the world it occurs. The issue of child labour is an important part of the core ILO conventions. Most countries in the world have ratified ILO Convention 182 on the Prohibition and Immediate Action to Eliminate the Worst Forms of Child Labour and also No 138 on Minimum Age of Access to Work. In addition, Article 32 of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child states that the child has the right to protection against economic exploitation and to carry out work which may be harmful, hinder the child's education, endanger the child's health or development. It is true that child labour is a common practice in the agricultural sector, which of course is not acceptable. According to the ILO International Programme on the Elimination of Child Labour, over half of child workers are in the agricultural sector. Agriculture is also a workplace where the risk of injury is higher compared to other sectors, making children particularly vulnerable. The causes of child labour are complex. To tackle child labour, a combination of economic growth and fair distribution of resources, respect for fundamental rights at work, access to general education and social security is needed. A better understanding of children's needs and rights is also needed. Sweden, of course, contributes to the fight against child labour. This is done through contributions to UN organisations, such as the ILO, and by supporting the monitoring of countries upholding international standards on child labour. Then we also cooperate regionally and bilaterally on this issue. I would also like to mention the new UN Sustainable Development Goals, the 2030 Agenda, which require countries to take immediate action to ban and eradicate the worst forms of child labour. The goal is for all forms of child labour to be eradicated in 2025. The Agenda provides a good platform for forming opinion and building networks to achieve that goal. Then there is the opportunity to make social demands in procurements, which can also promote human rights. A special investigator has just proposed that when work is done outside Sweden, conditions under the core ILO Conventions should be set in the procurement. The government is currently preparing the investigation proposal. The current EU Directive on public procurement already makes it clear that contracting authorities have the right to require suppliers to comply with the provisions of fundamental ILO conventions. There is also a responsibility for companies to strive to integrate sustainability into their business strategies and corporate governance. Contributing to the effective abolition of child labour is part of the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, the UN Global Compact and the UN Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights. In August this year, the government adopted a national action plan on entrepreneurship and human rights as the sixth country in the world. The fourth conference on child labour will be held in Argentina in 2017. I have not yet received an invitation to the conference, but the government will take a position on the issue of preparation and participation well in advance of the conference.
i-692664c87d3f1408-103	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Minister Ylva Johansson for his answer. It is gratifying that the government has such a great deal of commitment and willingness to work on the issues of child labour. It does this by, for example, appointing a special investigator who proposes that Sweden comply with ILO core conventions and impose requirements on companies in procurement. It is also important that we ensure that people who work in agriculture and those who have agriculture receive wages that are viable for their children to have opportunities for schooling and education. It's important. I missed that part of the answer. Sweden obviously has a legal obligation to ensure that child labour does not occur in the production of goods and services that we consume. As consumers, we also have a moral responsibility and a duty to impose requirements on companies that do not comply with the core ILO conventions. We know that there is child labour in agriculture, in the production of clothing chains and in the production, for example, of software for phones and computers for Apple. In the last five years there have been two international children's conferences. One was in The Hague in 2010, and the other was in October 2013 in Brazil, where 97 countries participated. The Hague Conference adopted with acclamation a roadmap for the elimination of the worst forms of child labour as early as 2016, i.e. next year. It is called R oadmap for A chieving the Elimination of the Worst Forms of C hild L abour by 2016. Under the heading "Actions for governments" in this document it is stated that action should be taken to create, together with the social partners, an environment aimed at combating child labour in the life chain. An agreement was also adopted at this conference – The Brasilia Declaration on Child Labour. Paragraph 20 of this Agreement states that it was decided to support the continuous development of the global movement against child labour through partnership, cooperation, opinion formation and action based on international forms of work and rights. We know from our trade unions here in Sweden that a year has passed, but so far nothing has been done, unfortunately. As the Minister pointed out in his reply, agriculture is, globally, the sector of business where it is by far the largest part of child labour in the world. This is about 59%, which means that over 98 million girls and boys aged between 5 and 17 work in crop production and livestock production. We know through the media that we have participated in a lot of this through suppliers who use child labour and who supply goods to chains in Sweden.
i-692664c87d3f1408-109	Madam President, I would like This is an important issue raised by Amineh Kakabaveh. It's important to the government. I would like to point out that it is important to work on several fronts in order to achieve serious results in terms of reducing child labour. Although it has decreased, many children are still being forced to work, dangerous situations and exploitation. I would like to highlight some areas where it is important to make efforts. It is about combating and eradicating poverty. That is an important part of this. It is a matter of prioritising education and the development of welfare systems in different countries so that children have access to basic welfare and the right to education and schooling. It is about ensuring that countries both ratify and apply the ILO conventions. It is about ensuring that there is a functioning and expanded labour inspection in different countries. Madam President, it is not least a question of strengthening the right and the possibility for employees to organise themselves in trade unions to achieve results through collective bargaining. Many of these efforts are important for the success of child labour. Madam President, I would like I would also like to point out that Sweden has just recently signed an international cooperation agreement between Bangladesh, the ILO and Sweden, which is about improving workers' conditions in the textile industry in Bangladesh. My Secretary of State will soon be going to Bangladesh for an international conference on issues such as this – how we can strengthen employees' rights. The ILO is doing important work in this area, and Sweden is one of the largest contributors to ILO development aid. We contribute approximately SEK 70 million per year to the work of the ILO. We are therefore already at the forefront of Sweden, but it is of course important that we continue to give high priority to these issues.
i-692664c87d3f1408-113	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister Ylva Johansson! These are very important aspects, and it is important that Sweden takes the initiative. We know that over the last ten years there have been several international conferences and many countries have committed themselves to the core conventions. But unfortunately it still looks like this when it comes to Sweden, our subcontractors and clothing chains like Hern & Mauritz and many others. Just as Ylva Johansson was at work, it is in the clothing chains that workers are exploited. According to Human Rights Watch, over 90 percent of women and young girls work under slave-like conditions in Cambodia. There is also child labour in Uzbekistan, India and China. There it is cotton; 99% is produced in these countries. It's about labour law crimes that affect our companies, from Ikea to clothing chains. This has been pointed out in Fairtrade reports, in reports from Human Rights Watch and in the media. It is therefore important to make demands and to penalise companies that violate international conventions. This shouldn't be okay. Sweden has a voice when it comes to human rights, and this is a human right. It is also about the feminist agenda in Swedish foreign policy. It must be lifted in these contexts because it is mostly women who make our clothes. The last two weeks were about products in the make-up industry. There too there is child labour. In the cocoa industry, for example, in Côte d'Ivoire and Ghana there are 2.3 million child workers. These are serious figures in view of what we want to achieve internationally: to eradicate the worst forms of child labour as early as 2016. Nevertheless, we have not halved the figures, given that there are still 70 million children working in the worst forms of child labour. I also believe that it is important to work for justice and for there to be trade union organisations and organisation. We shall also fight poverty, and it is a question of resource allocation. Wherever you come in the world, it is difficult for trade unions to organise themselves. Last time we were in Chile on a field trip. It is difficult for the workers there to have a union organization that is uniform, for example. This occurs in many countries. In Iran, the trade union activists are in prison, and they are murdered. In many other countries, too, they are being persecuted. That is why it is good that we in Sweden have agreements. When we negotiate, the social requirements must be included, and we must stick to that.
i-692664c87d3f1408-117	Madam President, I would like I can assure Amineh Kakabaveh that the government is giving priority to these issues. We are making significant efforts. Let me highlight a few elements. I have already spoken about the important work carried out by the ILO. Sweden makes a contribution of approximately SEK 70 million, which makes us one of the largest contributors to the ILO. The money is used, for example, for work for freedom of association and competence development. There is also money used today for the ILO programme against child labour and to support the implementation of an African strategy against child labour, for example. It is about combating child labour in Congo, Guinea-Bissau, Lesotho and Swaziland. Sweden also supports significant efforts for children's right to education through Sida. We support UNICEF, which also works to combat child labour and children's right to education. We are making significant efforts and, of course, we are prepared to continue to give priority to these issues. I look forward to eventually receiving an invitation to the conference in Argentina. Then let's get back to it.
i-692664c87d3f1408-121	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister. I am absolutely convinced that there is a very strong ambition and that the Swedish Government has a strong will and helps. But the problem is that it is companies that commit crimes. If they do not follow the guidelines and if their suppliers and subcontractors do not meet the requirements and comply with the rules, it will be very difficult even if we contribute as many millions or billions as possible. Unless the countries where work and production take place adhere to the same rights, it will not help. It is therefore a good thing that, at all times, in all procurements with companies and countries, Sweden simply maintains and emphasises the importance of human rights, children's rights, the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the core ILO conventions. You're supposed to fight for living wages. Most often it is about the companies that Sweden has in other countries where they produce goods paying the minimum wage and not the living wage. It is very important to emphasise this, because it is important that people have living wages so that they do not send their children on dangerous adventures, for example in agriculture and other sectors that are very dangerous. cocoa production in particular is lethal; there many children between the ages of 5 and 17 die. This concerns us, of course, and it is therefore also expected that Sweden will impose requirements on the companies with which we are negotiating.
i-692664c87d3f1408-124	Madam President, I would like Finally, I would like to thank Amineh Kakabaveh for raising an important issue. As I said in my reply, an investigator has now come up with a proposal for Sweden to impose conditions under the ILO core conventions on procurement when work is done. I think this is an important proposal. It is now being prepared within the Government Office, as I said earlier, so we will have to come back to this important issue that we will follow. We will also make new efforts.
i-692664c87d3f1408-126	Madam President, I would like Fredrik Schulte has asked me if it is my assessment that an increased unemployment fund leads to more jobs. Unemployment insurance is a conversion insurance with the aim of providing financial support for the supply of services in the event of conversion between jobs. As Fredrik Schulte is probably aware, unemployment benefits have been eroded for a long time. Workable unemployment insurance not only secures the individual's private economy but also improves the matching and adaptability of the labour market by daring people to try out other occupations and encourages job seekers to seek jobs that correspond to their educational and experience level. Unemployment insurance also serves as an automatic stabiliser that dampens cyclical fluctuations. The increase in income-related benefits was essential for the continued functioning of unemployment insurance as a loss of income insurance in the event of unemployment. It is estimated that only around 1% of workers would receive 80% of earned income in the event of unemployment before the increase. By strengthening unemployment insurance, we are nurturing and strengthening the Swedish model in practical political action, and together with the investments for jobs made by the government in its job agenda, efforts are being made in the short as well as in the long term for more jobs.
i-692664c87d3f1408-131	Madam President, I would like So we are having this debate because I have asked the Minister for Labour how many jobs we get by increasing subsidies. In the election movement Stefan Löfven, the current Prime Minister, said that any proposals that a Social Democratic government would put forward would be tested to see what effect it had on jobs. What we can see now, if we look at the budgets presented by the government, is that there are no impact assessments either of the policy as a whole or of individual proposals, and now that I put this question to the Minister for Labour, I am not getting a straight answer. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to ask the question one more time: how many jobs does the Minister for Labour think that raising subsidies, through an increased unemployment fund, leads to? The government chooses not to answer these kinds of questions, because the government's focus on politics is on raising taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship. It does not take the money it receives to increase the funding to the core of welfare – it is only a quarter of the tax increases that go to health care, school and care – but it uses the money to invest in, for example, increased unemployment funds, increased benefits, increased subsidies and more labour market policies. The explanation for not answering the kind of questions that I am asking is that the policy that is being pursued very clearly leads to fewer jobs. This is really quite obvious and natural. If you raise taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship, people will have less money in their wallet to consume, that is, it stops or slows down the economic wheels as they spin, and businesses will have less money left to hire. So fewer people get jobs. Just as we have high taxes on snuff, tobacco, alcohol and environmentally harmful behaviour, because we want people to do as little of this as possible, high taxes on jobs will also lead to fewer workers. The efforts made by the government, i.e. increased contributions, will also lead to fewer people getting jobs. The higher the contributions, the worse the driving forces people will have to really take the jobs that exist. This isn't something I'm making up. A research report from the OECD has compiled, meta-studies, what the research says in this area. They say very clearly that in the average OECD country, high long-term unemployment and high taxes have a strong impact on an increase in total unemployment. The government agency IFAU is looking at this in a report, and they too have found that a minimum wage for which an unemployed person can accept a job, the reservation salary, is assumed to be able to explain in part both how many jobs the unemployed are looking for but also their chances of getting a job. So there is clear scientific support for the fact that the increase in unemployment leads to fewer people in work, and that is also why we now see all independent assessors say that government policy leads to fewer jobs. The Institute of Economic Development, the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and the Council of Finance Ministers all state that the government's policy leads to between 20,000 and 30,000 fewer jobs. With the refugee crisis we are currently experiencing, we cannot afford more people in unemployment because of an ideologically driven subsidy policy.
i-692664c87d3f1408-140	Madam President, I would like I believe that those who listen to this debate and to Fredrik Schulte remember that reality is usually the worst enemy of Moderates. Fredrik Schultes's party friends in the old government promised that if unemployment insurance were reduced, unemployment would fall. If taxes were reduced, unemployment would fall. None of this happened. On the contrary, the high unemployment rate and the failure of jobs were one of the main reasons why voters did not allow the old government to continue. Thus, the policy advocated by Fredrik Schulte has already been tested in reality and did not have the effects that it promised. I would also like to make a correction, Madam President. Unemployment insurance is not a benefit. It's an insurance policy. People take out an insurance policy and pay the insurance every month to ensure that an accident can come alone. That's what we use insurance for. Most of us assure our house, our car and much more, because if the worst happens you should not also have to become poor. People had been paying for insurance for a lot of years. Then the old government came and deteriorated strongly and in a stroke of insurance so that you no longer had the insurance that you thought you had when you started paying it, when you were promised a compensation level of 80 percent of the previous salary. Now we are restoring so that we once again get a working conversion insurance that is income-related. It provides greater security for the individual, and I believe that the labour market will work better.
i-692664c87d3f1408-145	Madam President, I would like They are sorry that the Minister for Labour wants to talk about anything other than what I actually asked a question about, namely how many more jobs an increased unemployment fund provides. Instead, the Minister for Labour talks about history, about what happened under the alliance government. She believes that the unemployment fund is not a grant but an insurance policy, even though she knows that the unemployment fund is 60% tax-funded. She does not respond to the rational explanations I give for why increased contributions and taxes lead to fewer jobs. She does not comment on the conclusions of the Konjunkturinstitutet, the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise or the Financial Policy Council that government policy leads to fewer jobs. She does not comment on the fact that research and science clearly show that increased taxes and subsidies lead to fewer jobs. She wants to talk about what the Alliance government did. I'd be happy to talk about what the Alliance government did. It is true that unemployment increased under the alliance government. It has three clear explanations. The first explanation is that there was then the worst global crisis since the Second World War. The second explanation is that there was extensive immigration into Sweden. It took a long time for the people who have come to Sweden to establish themselves on the Swedish labour market. The third explanation is that during Göran Persson's time in power, and the time that Ylva Johansson also sat in the government, they devoted themselves to early retirement and sick leave a lot of people. They were swept under the carpet, and we tried to help them back. Unemployment, Madam President, could easily be halved by tomorrow. It is just a matter of returning to early retirement and sick leave, that is to say lightening the regulatory framework – a bit like you are doing now. We can make up fake jobs, extra jobs and trainee jobs-- it's just a trainee job that's been assigned since the government took office. It is no longer interesting to count the number of unemployed. What we have to do is instead count on how many people work. It is possible to trix so much with the unemployment rate. If we look at how many people are working, it has been an incredibly strong job growth during the alliance government, despite the crisis, despite extensive migration to Sweden that has brought major challenges to the system. Between 2006 and 2014, 350 000 new jobs were created. For the period 1984, more than 30 years ago, until 2006 half as many jobs were created. The Swedish job engine during the time of the alliance government in power is clear. However, the Minister for Employment does not wish to comment on this either. She'd rather talk about unemployment. It can be trixed with and used various political methods to hide. The government is apparently working in the dark to loosen the longer time limit in health insurance, add fake jobs, i.e. extra jobs and trainee jobs, which will polish the statistics. That's not a good way to go. I repeat that science, Konjunkturinstitutet and the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise show in all their calculations that increased taxes and higher contributions lead to fewer jobs. How do we get more jobs with an increased unemployment fund?
i-692664c87d3f1408-151	Madam President, I would like Unemployment insurance is not primarily a theory but a reality for the unemployed. How poor do the Moderates believe that unemployed individuals should become before you are satisfied? Now I understand that the Moderates have changed their policies and propose an increase in unemployment insurance compensation compared to the policies they used to pursue. In that case, the Moderates propose a policy, if Fredrik Schulte is to stick to his argumentation, which leads to fewer jobs and more unemployed. Is that so? Madam President, I would like The government's overall policy leads to more jobs and lower unemployment. Fredrik Schulte says that unemployment increased during the old government, but it was obviously not the responsibility of the old government. That's one way to see it. But then you also rarely get re-elected. It is also one of the reasons why voters chose to opt out of the old government. I think the voters would rather have a government that takes responsibility for jobs and unemployment. This government does. You should watch out a little when you try to play a game of concealing unemployment with the number of jobs. A strong population growth, which Sweden has had in recent years, naturally drives an increased number of jobs. However, this is not the same as increasing employment rates or reducing unemployment. Of course, the number of jobs must be related to the size of the population.
i-692664c87d3f1408-154	Madam President, I would like The Moderates' budget means that the unemployment fund should be reduced significantly. Ylva Johansson says that government policy leads to more jobs. The problem is that it's just something the government says. All independent actors – Konjunkturinstitutet, Finance Council, Confederation of Swedish Enterprise – say that it leads to fewer jobs. The government refuses to disclose estimates of how politics leads to more jobs. This is just something that the Minister for Employment and Finance is standing here saying. They can say anything. There is no evidence that this is the case. We have probably never had a government in modern times that has received so much criticism from independent economic assessors, and we have probably never had a government that has such low confidence in job issues. Only 5% of the Swedish people believe in the government's employment policy. There's more people who believe in ghosts. It is natural that this is the case. Science is evident in the fact that increased taxes and subsidies lead to fewer jobs. It is also natural and logical that this is the case. The government chooses to do anything but comment and discuss the issue. Instead, we want to talk about what the alliance government did, that the unemployment fund is certainly not a contribution or a lot of other sidetracks. We do not want to discuss the consequences and logic of our own policies. It's going crazy. Above all, this leads crazy because a grant culture is created in Sweden. The waiter who gets his first job will thus receive less in salary for 40 hours of hard work than the unemployed lawyer gets. It creates a social climate that will rebuild Grant Sweden.
i-692664c87d3f1408-159	Madam President, I would like Now I almost get drunk in laughter. Fredrik Schulte believes that the waitress can choose to become an unemployed lawyer instead? Is that how I'd understand it? If the lawyer works as a waitress, I suggest you try to find a profession that fits better with the skills you have. Madam President, I would like The Moderates' draft budget means that the compensation in the unemployment fund is increased from SEK 680, which was the policy of the Moderates a year ago, to now SEK 760 per day. It is done for the entire period of 300 days. If you make such an increase in the ceiling in the unemployment fund, it means that the Moderates conduct a policy that you believe leads to increased unemployment. I'm having a hard time getting it together, but that's obviously how you do it. Madam President, I would like I repeat that the reality has shown that when the old government deteriorated unemployment insurance and reduced taxes, it led in practice to higher unemployment and a poorer functioning labour market with significant matching problems.
i-692664c87d3f1408-163	Madam President, I would like Hanif Bali has asked me whether the Swedish Enterprise's calculation of the government's budget bill's employment effects is consistent with the Ministry of Labour's and the Ministry's assessments. When the government took office last year, it inherited a worrying situation with a high level of unemployment. To increase employment and permanently reduce unemployment, the government has therefore proposed in the 2016 budget proposal major future investments in housing, climate change and infrastructure, an active business policy for more and growing companies, as well as investments in skills and matching to equip people to take the jobs that are emerging. The spring bill for 2015 and the budget bill contain total investments for jobs amounting to just over SEK 14 billion for 2016. The government's reforms in the labour market and education sector make it possible for more unemployed people to get into education and training. By increasing the individual's skills and knowledge, job opportunities are strengthened among people who would otherwise find it difficult to get a job. The fast track accelerates the establishment of new arrivals so that more people quickly get a firm anchor in the labour market. The emphasis on active measures for the long-term unemployed and persons with disabilities with reduced working capacity will strengthen their job opportunities. The government reports in budget proposals and spring proposals on the overall assessment of how the government's reforms affect employment and unemployment. However, with regard to the impact of various reform proposals, it is important to point out that there is considerable uncertainty as to the extent to which and at what rate different measures affect employment and unemployment. The government's reforms are estimated to have a gradual impact on employment and unemployment over the forecast period. Overall, the measures proposed in the budget proposal are assessed as contributing to lower unemployment and higher employment in the coming years. At the same time, reality is rapidly changing before our eyes. The fact that so many people take refuge in Sweden from war and oppression radically changes the conditions. The fact that Sweden's population will grow rapidly as a result of the large number of asylum seekers has an impact both on the labour force and on unemployment. In the short term, it poses challenges for Sweden, but in the longer term it offers opportunities for Sweden.
i-692664c87d3f1408-168	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister for Employment. It was a little surprising when the government laid down its budget not only that it stopped reporting the employment effects on the individual proposals – a tradition that we have had for quite some time in Sweden – but also that it did not show the financial impact of the budget at household level. What I think makes us both worried in view of the crisis that we are facing is the short perspective, when the government borrows a lot of money and spends it. Many people then say quite correctly that unemployment will be partially suppressed. We can already see that unemployment is on the way down. Unfortunately, however, it also creates a segregated labour market, and unfortunately the government's proposals to get to grips with this are not sufficient. We see that the reforms promised by the government are impossible for it to launch. These trainee jobs don't get that many. I guess it was a trainee job that was created. But the big problem we run the risk of getting is that the economic situation is getting better and better and that access to jobs is increasing – it may actually be that access to jobs is increasing – but that this is benefiting a very small part of the population. At the same time, reforms that are needed to increase, for example, the level of education or the capacity to raise people into work are hindered because the government's reform agenda is not based on empiricality, studies or on which impact the proposals get, but rather on ideological lock-ups, what SSU has managed to get through on voices and other proposals that do not have a research background or empirical background that shows that they help. It's a critical situation we're in. It was a great challenge for all governments before this government to make integration work, a huge challenge, and no one succeeded. There is something we can admit: no one succeeded. At the same time, people came here under far more orderly forms then than they do with today's system. Then it is important that the reforms made by the government have been empirically, via scientific methods and with realistic models proven to have a good effect. It will be difficult for the Riksdag, for example, to monitor the effects of the government when the government does not say what the various proposals have on employment effects. Then you have to go on secondary sources such as the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, Konjunkturinstitutet and so on. I wonder what the government is afraid of. Why does it not dare to say what the employment effects of the individual proposals in the budget are?
i-692664c87d3f1408-176	Madam President, I would like I think Hanif Bali is saying some wise things here. At a time when the labour market is changing very quickly – it is now, and it has been doing so for a long time, simply because we are living in a time when the challenges of the labour market are changing very quickly – it is a matter of having a labour market policy that is both flexible and pragmatic and that one is prepared to steer on the basis of the new needs that one sees. I believe that the old government had an unfortunate obsession with tax cuts. It was almost the only instrument used in the hope that it would solve unemployment. To finance it, one cut down on, among other things, education. That is one of the reasons why today we have significant matching problems with record numbers of job vacancies despite very high unemployment and the fact that we have a poorly functioning labour market. Efforts on education and a substantial change in matching the labour market, including through a substantial change in the Employment Service, are important parts that the government is working with and that are also fairly well known is what is needed in a situation where vacancies are not added. You can have a different economic situation, such as one where you are short of work at all. Then other efforts are needed. But that's not where we are right now. On the contrary, it is quite good in the Swedish economy right now. I would like to comment on this with trainee jobs. After all, the social partners have not yet agreed on the agreements to regulate trainee jobs. I think they'll do it within a week. Three of the agreements between Arbetsförmedlingen and the municipalities have been completed. More than 100 have arrived, and they are about to arrive. One can be quite surprised that there have been trainee jobs even before those agreements have come into place. I therefore expect that there will be a large number of trainee jobs. But I will also say that given the situation that prevailed when we laid down the budget and the situation we have today, youth unemployment has fallen quite sharply. At the same time, we have had new groups, such as new arrivals, which are far from the labour market or are unemployed. I believe that, in such a situation, consideration should be given to making a certain change in labour market policy. There may not be as many of the young people who have upper secondary skills, those to whom trainee jobs are aimed, who are in need of a labour market policy measure. Of course, it's not an end in itself. If you get a job, it's excellent. But then maybe we have other groups where a combination of education and work is a really good way into the labour market. These are the considerations that a pragmatic government should engage in and which I am doing right now.
i-692664c87d3f1408-183	Madam President, I would like This is kind of exciting. After all, the last term of office was harsh and severe criticism from the Social Democrats when we emphasised precisely the fact that perhaps it is not the best idea to offer labour market intervention to young people who generally have very short periods of unemployment. After all, it is mainly young people who have, for example, upper secondary education. There were very harsh criticisms from the Social Democrats about this, but it is gratifying that they are now in fact backing away from it. When it comes to trainee jobs, I just want to hand over some good advice, not only about trainee jobs but also about other efforts. It is correct that the Minister for Labour describes youth unemployment as falling. It's been for quite some time now. But we also see that there is a certain group. A certain other group does not benefit, and it is the weakest group with a low educational background. This is also the main reason why newcomers find it very difficult to enter the labour market – their educational background is generally much lower than that of the domestic population. That is why I would like to give some good advice to the Minister. We have tried reforms that require red tape, agreements with others, reforms that are not automatic, such as entry-level jobs. You can compare the new start jobs with the entry jobs. The entry-level jobs were a reform that required red tape. It was a much more generous form but was used to a very small extent compared to the new start jobs, which were automatic and gave good results. We are in a situation where Swedish authorities are under enormous pressure. The Director General of the Employment Service says that they find it difficult to get to meetings with municipalities because they are so busy with the refugee crisis. In such a situation, launching reforms that require a lot of red tape is, of course, counterproductive. Here it would be appropriate for the government to abandon its action-based ideas and reforms and instead go into reforms of a more automatic model. Of course, tax cuts are one such thing, but if one has an ideological lock-up and refuses to introduce tax cuts, one should instead find other models that are not based on redress in different instances, administrators and the Public Employment Service. My fear is a little bit that when the government does not fully report its figures, it is not taken into account that the pressure on the authorities is not a variable. There is a risk of shooting blank shots at unemployment when we most need sharp shots. We risk getting a distinct A- and B-team, a clear division of the Swedish labour market between those who have an adequate education and have had parents who have been able to pilot them through a broken school system and those who have not had it or have not had the talent and managed it on their own. Then we risk having a society for which the Social Democrats have long been warned, a society that is torn apart by divisions, a society where people feel hopeless. This hopelessness is demonstrated by the fact that people who may be like me, have a different ethnic background and so on, get an aversion to the majority society. Then we'll have a dangerous situation.
i-692664c87d3f1408-192	Madam President, I would like Although youth unemployment is falling, it is far from being resolved. Today we have some 60 000 young people with upper secondary skills who are unemployed. Thus, there is still a significant target group for trainee jobs in their design. However, this does not prevent us from being open to re-priorities when reality changes, although the situation remains worrying as regards youth unemployment. I would like to say, Madam President, that what we are doing is moving away from bureaucracy and regulation. The previous government ruled hard from what day you could get the stake and who could get it. In order to benefit from certain measures, a long list of requirements would be met. It was hard to control what efforts could be made and in what situations. This entails much unnecessary bureaucracy and takes time, and it also becomes insurmountable for individuals and businesses. It's counterproductive. Let's figure it out. There is more to do, but we have taken significant steps along the way. We have removed two thirds of the regulatory letters, we are removing several of the deadlines and I have personally been out to build a good cooperation between Arbetsförmedlingen and the municipalities, where the focus is on results and not on rules. What is important is that we solve youth unemployment. The important thing is that young people come to work or to education leading to work. The important thing is not how it does not produce results. I have received a good response to this approach both from municipalities and from Arbetsförmedlingen and have quite high hopes that it will lead to results. Mr Bali concluded his speech by saying that we run the risk of getting a division of the labour market between those who have it rather well strained, are in the labour market, have good education and jobs, and those who are outside. I would say that we already have such a division. That is one of the major problems. The poor match, when the Beveridge curve moves outwards, is a sign of that. We have many vacancies, but many of the unemployed are not equipped to take them. It is a significant problem that we already have, leaving many people in the lurch for a long time to come. At this point, we need to think about which policies can do something about it. Is it a policy that increases the gaps or a policy that narrows the gaps? Is it a policy of cutting back on education or a policy of education? Is it a policy that tries to compensate for the shortcomings that individuals bring with them when they come to Sweden, or that they have experienced during their schooling, or is it a policy that punishes people for their shortcomings? I believe that this is an important choice, and the government is very clear that we must work to equip people to take the jobs that exist in the labour market. Then it goes without saying that people have different conditions for that armor. We must meet the individuals where they are. Generally speaking, the government's line is that we should equip people to take the job vacancies.
i-692664c87d3f1408-198	Madam President, I would like I believe that there has been an incorrect lockdown on both sides. On the one hand, we may have dismissed training and, on the other, the government has dismissed the restrictive nature of various benefit systems. The Moderates have learned their lesson. We think, for example, that Komvux should be a right. You should be able to read your grades both in the middle of life and otherwise. This is an important insight, especially with the situation described by the Minister for Labour. But fear exists. We have done our homework one way, but the government has not done its homework the other way. If you have too generous benefit systems, if you do not have sufficient control of the transfer systems, this will have negative effects. Too much of one destroys, and too much of the other destroys. Somewhere we need to find a balance. I am afraid that the government is doing the reverse in relation to the mistake made by the Moderates and the Alliance when we did not see the educational gap early enough. Therefore, it is amazing that the government does not want to present the figures so that the Riksdag can monitor and measure the effects of the individual proposals. I have still not received an answer from Ylva Johansson to the question why the figures are not reported. Have there been calculations? If calculations have not been made, does the Government consider it appropriate to make reforms without counting them?
i-692664c87d3f1408-201	Madam President, I would like There are significant ideological differences between me and Hanif Bali, but I would nevertheless like to thank you for a constructive debate on important issues for the Swedish labour market.
i-692664c87d3f1408-202	Madam President, I would like AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson has asked Minister for Enterprise and Innovation Mikael Damberg if the Minister and the Government are prepared to reconsider their view of RUT and ROT in order to maintain important ways into the labour market for new arrivals. As the question concerns the labour market and the establishment of newcomers, I answer the question. The Swedish Tax Agency estimates that almost SEK 17 billion in ROT deductions were paid for 2014. At the same time as the costs of the ROT deduction run out, there is an acute housing shortage. The Government intends to limit the current subsidy for renovation, re- and extension and use the money released to increase, among other things, the construction of new housing. By increasing investment in infrastructure and housing, we create jobs here and now and the conditions for jobs in the long term. The Government also intends to change the RUT deduction so that it is directed more towards the needs of ordinary families with children and pensioners for household services. The proposed changes are estimated to have very limited effects on customers and entrepreneurs in the RUT sector and on employment and the situation of new arrivals in the labour market. The government and the alliance parties agreed on 23 October on certain efforts to ensure the ability of Swedish reception of asylum seekers and to strengthen the establishment of new arrivals. The agreement proposes, among other things, that the RUT deduction should also cover extended gardening, floating services and IT services at home. The Government's ambition is for more new arrivals to come to work or education during the start-up period. In the 2016 budget bill, the government takes a holistic approach and proposes several investments that will lead to faster entry into the labour market, including a major validation effort and a substantial increase in the compensation to municipalities for the reception of new arrivals.
i-XNbuxUdHdcSMXkGd4EJW4Q	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Employment, for your answer. The journey with the reforms ROT and RUT comes partly from economic measures and partly from the fact that black jobs have become white with pensionable income and insurance. It is reforms that have served us well to make the wheels spin in our country with businesses and jobs, not least in two respects. There was a time during the last financial crisis when Sweden needed a real push in its own consumption when companies stopped getting orders. It affected many large and medium-sized enterprises but also small enterprises, not least craftsmen who could do jobs in their homes and thus fuel consumption. This has also happened, as the Minister for Labour's amount for the ROT deduction shows. What the sum does not respond to is how much money the sector with the ROT deduction has given to the state for people having hired companies white to get their services provided. This was a major problem in the past. The other thing that has served us well with the reforms is that they have benefited companies and jobs, not least for women within the RUT, and also women who have been far from the labour market. Not least, this has given women from other countries an opportunity to enter the labour market, with lower thresholds. They may have started their own business after a while and then been able to hire more. Statistics from the National Institute of Economic Affairs, the Swedish Tax Agency and SCB are a clear proof that the reforms of the Alliance Government in these areas have been steps in the right direction. If one imagines that ROT and RUT are allowed to continue in the way they are used, the use will increase, and that is great potential for a reform that is gaining ground and growing more and more over time. Perseverance in the reform provides more customers, more jobs and more businesses. A long-term approach is needed. Reforms have many advantages. As I see it, they are an important part of economic policy, hence my question to Minister Damberg, based on the work of the Committee on Economic Affairs to combat undeclared work and to create new growing markets. Looking forward, I see a working life in which women and men take their place on an equal footing in the labour market. In this context, I am convinced that these reforms, as well as a number of others, create opportunities for star families to get their life puzzle together. Our society has changed. I believe it is important to see the services sector in the light of the future and what it can offer for functions. These services can create opportunities for many people. There I share conviction with my party. With this reasoning, we are also in the area of labour market policy, which is the area of the Minister for Labour. I note that the reforms have had positive effects on employment, while the number of white jobs has increased, not least for women. Increased demand for RUT services contributes to higher employment in an industry that for many can be the first step towards entry into the labour market. These jobs are extremely important, including as entry-level jobs for those who come here. The Institute of Economics has reported how black jobs have turned white. The Statistical Office of Finland has provided an account of how the deduction for domestic services has opened up for increased entrepreneurship, and then there are once again women born abroad in the statistics. The Tax Agency and SCB show that two thirds of those who use the deduction earn less than $35,000 a month. Almega reports that RUT deductions are increasing. 570 000 people have made deductions, which is 30 500 more than a year ago. Perhaps one might think that this is a big city phenomenon, but that is not the case. Dorotea, Sorsele, Osby, Aneby and Grästorp are municipalities where it increases. I welcome the fact that, in the agreement of 23 October, the Government agreed on a number of actions involving the RUT deduction, including increased gardening, floating and IT services at home, but I would also like to see a long-term approach to this, hence my question to the Minister.
i-692664c87d3f1408-217	Madam President, I would like Entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship are not something that we politicians create, however much we would like it to be. However, we can at least provide the right conditions and stimulate this through reforms. We in the Moderates are clear that we want to see the development of ROT and RUT, not a dismantling that the government is expressing by means of severe reductions in the right to deduct. The Government plans to reduce RUT from today's 50 000 SEK per person per year to 25 000 SEK per year. As far as the ROT is concerned, there is a reduction from 50% to 30%. In the Moderate budget, the ROT and RUT deductions remain at the same levels as during the period of alliance government. In addition, we would like to see an extension, so that they also include floating services. The floating services will cost approximately SEK 550 million annually and provide 1,000 new jobs. It is jobs that are really needed, and there are those who really need them. Madam President, I would like Record number of Swedes have so far used the RUT deduction in 2015. Up to September this year, the increase is as much as 9 per cent. Together with interpellant Ann ‐ Charlotte, I have visited one of the many domestic services companies in Helsingborg. The government's proposals will allow them to take action. Probably they will have to raise prices, but they saw it as rather difficult as the black jobs will increase in the industry. This assessment is not only for me, but also for the Swedish Trade and Industry Committee and the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise. We should not forget that this reform has reduced the thresholds to the labour market, where black jobs have become white and where workers have received both pension-based income and insurance. According to Statistics Sweden's statistics, the number of cleaning entrepreneurs increased by as much as 24 per cent in three years since the RUT deduction was introduced. This compares with the total increase over the same period, which was 7%. Women accounted for 59 per cent of new entrepreneurs. RUT is also a sector in which many women born abroad have started businesses. Of the 950 enterprise openings, 63 per cent were born abroad. We have a government that calls itself feminist, which I personally might think is a little presumptuous as the halving of RUT will hit women entrepreneurs in particular. Actually, it's not what you say that counts, it's what you do. Madam President, I would like I would like to see feminist proposals for real, not proposals that discourage female entrepreneurship.
i-692664c87d3f1408-225	Madam President, I would like I could not help but get up in the debate, as this issue is very important. It is also about why the government chose to make this change, a deterioration of the RUT. In the previous debates we have had here, as well as in the budget, the Minister for Finance has said that it does not believe that taxpayers should subsidise the cleaning of indoor pools or the setting of bartenders. I have then repeatedly asked the government whether it has been found out how many indoor pools have been cleaned thanks to the RUT deduction. That is what was referred to when the deterioration was presented. They turned it into some sort of class struggle rhetoric. But I have not received an answer to my question. I therefore wonder whether the Government has an answer to that question in today's debate: has this been a problem? How many indoor pools have been cleaned using RUT services? Another interesting thing about this issue is to argue for the deterioration by saying that it is only 1% that it affects. Then the question is why you should do the deterioration at all. Such a deterioration actually creates uncertainty in the industry. In Denmark, we have seen how this uncertainty and the changes that have been made have caused concern in the industry. It has not continued to employ the people needed. Long-term is therefore very important, especially for those who are entrepreneurs and need to know what will apply in the future. Then it is in itself gratifying that you have chosen to expand the RUT when it comes to what you should be able to use it for. These include, for example, gardening services and other things. We're glad the government has chosen to swallow it. But my question is: Has it been a problem that the RUT deduction has been used to clean indoor pools, and how many indoor pools have been cleaned?
i-692664c87d3f1408-229	Madam President, I would like Here it goes up a string of Moderates who, to say the least, fight against windmills. The government proposes that the RUT deduction be retained. The RUT deduction has very likely contributed to the fact that black jobs have gone white and that there have been more jobs in the sector. Therefore, the government chooses to retain the RUT deduction and makes only marginal changes. We have also now proposed, in an agreement with six parties, that we extend the RUT deduction, for example, to floating services, as mentioned here in the debate. So it's a little bit to fight windmills to paint the government as a big enemy of the RUT deduction. Since we keep the RUT deduction – it's the same deduction as before – I find it difficult to see why it should lead to companies being forced to raise prices. The level of subsidy remains at the same level as before. As far as ROT is concerned, however, it is actually a deterioration. The ROT deduction is retained, but it will be a lower deduction than it has been. The background to this is that we have a terrible distressing housing shortage in the country. And we have seen for many years that too much of the housing sector's capacity has gone into rebuilding kitchens and porches. Too little has gone to building new homes. We do not think that you should remove the ROT deduction, but we have made a slightly different balance point. We have done this because we need to free up both resources and work capacity for housing construction. For me as Minister of Labour, it is extremely important, because the lack of housing has a proven inhibitory effect on growth and is an important reason why we have a labour market where many job vacancies cannot be filled today. That's why it's an emergency. It is about freeing up resources and capacity for housing construction. The use of ROT services will continue to be subsidised.
i-692664c87d3f1408-235	Madam President, I would like It is positive to hear the Minister for Labour talking for these services. However, I am not of the opinion that it is entirely fighting windmills. I heard the Minister for Employment on TV a few days ago, when the Green Party flagged more jobs in the RUT sector, pointing out the concern that gaps may arise. However, entering the labour market and lowering job thresholds is, for me, access to work and income. I see it as very good in life. It is a first step towards different ways forward. Either you enjoy your job and continue, or you study along the way. You can also supplement an education that you already have and make something of it or acquire another profession. There is also the opportunity to become good at what you do in the RUT sector and start your own business. It is also a way forward. Many women have done this, including those who have been far removed from the labour market. I have met and talked at home in Skåne with a couple of those who run their own company. I have also met companies run in family business offering services to older people. Here you can see another side of the effects with ROT and RUT. It is people who have more to give, who have retrained themselves during life from having had crafts occupations or who choose to perform RUT services in hours according to their own wishes. They work to have a little more money a month to move around with. At the same time, they provide services for the elderly, who are in need of the services and who wish to buy them. This is for me a piece of the puzzle of many. These are people who at the other end of life have plenty of time after retirement. They also have time to have a social moment in carrying out their work with the elderly. Some of them told us that they had even gained weight, for they were given a gofika. This is therefore a lubricant in our system that affects other than just jobs in the ROT and RUT sectors. It is another reform that has been successful and that links in with RUT and ROT, namely the reform that is about keeping more money when you continue to work after retirement. Now the government has gone out and said that it intends to look at proposals to raise the retirement age, which it was against in the past. We do not want the continued stimulation of reduced tax, job tax deductions, for those who work. It's a mistake, I think. I see that ROT and RUT can be developed. There are opportunities to achieve not only work and income, but also added value and benefits. In his reply, the Minister for Labour points out that the ROT deduction is running at the same time as it is an acute housing shortage. The Minister for Labour mentioned that again. In this context, you can look at these issues from another aspect, namely the one that concerns the state companies, such as Akademiska Hus. Akademiska Hus manages universities and colleges. They have been given a new and broader assignment that is also about being able to build and manage student housing. At the same time as the broad mission, the government has talked about housing shortages. In 2015, a dividend of SEK 1.45 billion will be paid, as approved by the Annual General Meeting during the spring. Then, at an extraordinary general meeting on 19 October, an additional dividend of SEK 6.5 billion is decided. This doesn't make any sense. Especially strange is it to me that it will be when, for eight years, the Social Democrats, with the Alliance Government, have preached how much needs to be done in the infrastructure. It is a neglected area for many decades that it takes time to build, renew and change. Now the government also chooses to do similar in the case of the state-owned company SJ. At a general meeting in April, SEK 229 million was distributed. An extraordinary voice was held in September. There it was 1.7 billion in dividends from the company, which is responsible for vital parts of the kingdom's infrastructure and its functioning. The Minister of Labour! How to invest, and how to understand this with infrastructure and housing being done while taking money from the companies?
i-692664c87d3f1408-247	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister for Education Gustav Fridolin, Minister Helene Hellmark Knutsson, Minister Per Bolund, Minister for Social Security Annika Strandhäll and Minister Aida Hadzialic. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. Minister for Education Gustav Fridolin answers both general policy questions and questions within his own area of responsibility.
i-692664c87d3f1408-250	Mr President, I would like to I have an overall question for Minister of Education Gustav Fridolin. I had first thought of asking a question about NATO. But I understand from what is happening right now that there are other areas of question. What one day is dismissed as bad politics is the second day the government's policy. From noon. Today, 12 temporary border controls are in place. It was dismissed just a few days ago as a rather bad idea. In the past, ideas on temporary residence permits, a broader RUT deduction and increased supply requirements for family immigration have also been discarded from government and from the two government parties. So what one day is judged and dismissed as bad is the second day the government's policy. Mr President, I would like to That is why I have a specific question for Gustav Fridolin. Is the government in control of the situation?
i-692664c87d3f1408-254	Mr President, I would like to The answer to the question, Hans Wallmark, is yes. Sweden is currently carrying out its largest humanitarian effort in modern times. It is an operation carried out by the state through its authorities and then by the municipalities through schools, social services and municipal administration. An enormous amount of work is being done to give children and adults who come to Sweden a dignified start in their new country. This effort is being carried out by civil society, that is, anyone who is now fighting to ensure that people who come here get a dignified start. At this point, it is important that policies are brought together. I am proud that we managed to reach a broad agreement. This meant that all parties had to give and take. But it also meant that politics could gather together to provide support to all these fighters who carry the Swedish refugee reception. As far as border controls are concerned, the government's line has always been that such an issue should not be political but decided by the authorities. Yesterday, the Migration Agency made it clear that it considers border controls to be necessary.
i-692664c87d3f1408-259	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. I note that there is now an agreement on temporary residence permits, on a broader ROT deduction, on more stringent supply requirements for family migration and then at 2.30 p.m. 12 today also on temporary border controls. Essentially, I think that these are basically good proposals. I recognise many people from the general political debate, as they have been expressed by others. However, I note that many of these proposals just a day or a week ago were considered to be bad policy, and today it is government policy. Then I can only say that there seems to be a great deal of flexibility among those who are government officials.
i-692664c87d3f1408-261	Mr President, I would like to I repeat that I think it is a good thing that politics can be brought together at this stage. I see how Sweden gathers and how people work together to meet those who come and get space in our asylum accommodations. They read homework with their children or Swedish with their parents. Then politics must be able to do the same. I understand that Mr Wallmark wants to take advantage of this opportunity to also take political points. I must respect that, because we are in such a congregation. Nevertheless, I would like to call for caution when this is done a few days after the Moderates have made a proposal which, as it was presented, would be contrary to international law.
i-692664c87d3f1408-264	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to the Minister for Social Security. We are currently in a migration crisis where the number of asylum seekers for 2015 could reach 190 000. It is a crisis that this government and the former have created because of the generous conditions that have been created. The Swedish democrats have long pointed out the problems with the policies that have been implemented, which not only create segregation and exclusion, but also very hard hit Swedish welfare. Indeed, we are now also seeing how the government has talked about cutting back on assistance services. It is therefore with great concern that I would like the Minister to respond if she can defend proposals that lead to a reduction in assistance payments for those in need.
i-692664c87d3f1408-268	Mr President, I would like to I thank Markus Wiechel for the question. Before answering it, I will briefly start by saying that the assistance allowance is not with the Minister for Social Security but with Minister Åsa Regnér. But of course I will still answer Markus Wiechels's question. We are currently in a situation where 60 million people are on the run around the world. We are proud of Sweden and that Sweden is an open country. With regard to the question of assistance compensation, there is nothing in the proposals that the government is looking at today that is about cutting the assistance allowance and that such a cut would somehow relate to the fact that we have asylum reception in Sweden. So that's not true.
i-692664c87d3f1408-271	Mr President, I would like to Disability associations throughout the country, like their members and their relatives, have protested loudly. It is a question of the government pitting different groups against each other, which has been criticised in many cases. Assistance services are already under severe pressure. In these times, it is extremely heartless to strike at vulnerable people in our society, as the government is now doing because of increased expenditure as a result of the migration policy being conducted. The Social Democrats have made themselves known in the past, at least rhetorically, not to want to pit groups against each other. But that's exactly what you're doing now. People like our country and our welfare are, in fact, underpriority to support.
i-692664c87d3f1408-275	Mr President, I would like to No, Markus Wiechel, the government does not repeat the assistance or deprioritise it because of the current situation regarding the reception of asylum. On the other hand, as the Minister for Social Security, who is responsible for most of these systems, I can say that it is the responsibility of all politicians to constantly ensure that our systems work in the best possible way. Not least for the most vulnerable, it is extremely important that we ensure that the funds that fund our social security schemes also land just right. This is the responsibility of the government. It is up to me and Minister Regnér to do so. We know for several years that there is a problem in the field of assistance, and it is now looking at Minister Regnér of course. It has nothing to do with the asylum reception that we have in Sweden right now. So you're wrong, Markus Wiechel.
i-692664c87d3f1408-279	Mr President, I would like to I would like to put my question to Minister Knutsson. Swedish higher education has a great need for real reforms. The rate of pass-through is relatively low, the age of graduation is high and it pays far too little to educate oneself in Sweden. Saco has presented a survey showing that a nursing education does not pay off in Sweden. And yesterday, the Entrepreneurship Forum presented a new report pointing out that education pays far too little, especially compared to what it is like in other countries. So far it has been very empty from the government regarding reforms in higher education.
i-692664c87d3f1408-284	Mr President, I would like to I thank Fredrik Christensson for the question. I discussed it in an interpellation debate not long ago. It turns out that demand for higher education, both in the labour market and from students, is constantly increasing over time. Unfortunately, we now have eight years behind us because higher education has not been expanded. It has affected the expansion of recruitment, and we have not been able to meet the labour needs of trained academics either. Now the government is finally expanding the university with more places. We see that it is an investment both for the individual and for society.
i-692664c87d3f1408-287	Mr President, I would like to I think it sounds empty from the government regarding the reform in order for higher education to pay more. More places do not make higher education pay more for the individual. There are major challenges in terms of the rate of throughput, marginal taxes and other elements that would really make a difference in order for higher education to pay better in Sweden. As I said, unfortunately, I have not heard anything about it. Do you have any suggestions from the government as to what you will present for more education? I am not talking about more places, but about making it pay more for the individual to learn.
i-692664c87d3f1408-289	Mr President, I would like to I thank Fredrik Christensson for the same question again. It is the case that it pays for the individual if we look at, for example, the risk of unemployment. You also get a wider part of the labour market to apply for a job. These are figures that are usually not included when talking about what pays or not. On the other hand, we see that the pay spread for different academic groups is very different. The groups with the lowest wage spread are also those with the lowest wage development over time. Now we are also investing in teachers, for example, through the Teacher's Salary Lift, which is 3 billion. This is one way of ensuring that wage developments are improved for a large group of academics, whom we also need to ensure that there are more of them.
i-692664c87d3f1408-293	Mr President, I would like to It's about the kids. I have a question for Gustav Fridolin. In the morning today, we heard the Director-General of the Migration Agency say that he hopes that border controls will lead to a more dignified and legally secure reception. Many of those who come are children who have travelled through Europe for a long time under uncertain conditions. It is also children who may have disappeared in the country without reception, home or school. What consequences will border controls have for children? What is the government doing to ensure better reception for children?
i-692664c87d3f1408-295	Mr President, I would like to I thank Monica Green for the question. Yes, the hope from the Migration Agency is to get a more dignified reception through border controls. Border controls mean greater order at the border; they do not mean that anyone who wants to seek asylum is prevented from doing so; they mean that there is more order at the border. Then this is a major task, and it is a task for a long time to come. When children come to Sweden, they will have the opportunity to build a new life here. In that case, the resources in the municipalities are perhaps the most crucial. That's where you have social services, and that's where you have school. Presenting an amending budget in broad agreement today, which will add EUR 10 billion in the short term to the municipalities and for next year, will strengthen the standards for the schooling of asylum seekers and for the reception of new arrivals, thus strengthening the resources of the municipalities.
i-692664c87d3f1408-297	Mr President, I would like to That there will be more order in the reception of refugees is also my hope. I have also noted that Minister for Children Åsa Regnér has asked more people to receive children in their homes and informed them how to do so. Could that also be a way to catch these children?
i-692664c87d3f1408-298	Mr President, I would like to Yeah, that's exactly it, Monica Green. We can do a lot – social services and school are extremely crucial for children's opportunities to build a future, and today they are making great efforts by rolling up their sleeves and really meeting these children whose first years have consisted of war and flight. One of the most important things people can do, however, is to open their homes and be a family home. It is important for children who come to Sweden alone, and it is important for children who have suffered in Sweden. We have a lot of people running as family homes – more than before – but there still needs to be more. So I and the whole government are behind the Minister for Children's wishes and desire that the Swedish people increasingly support a child by being a family home. That would be very welcome. At school, which I have a special responsibility for with my colleagues, we also see that unaccompanied children who have been given that opportunity quite quickly can get quite good school results and an opportunity to participate in their new country.
i-692664c87d3f1408-301	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask my question to Minister of Education Gustav Fridolin. The fact that we are in a very difficult situation is something that many of us can endorse, and the Prime Minister has said on a number of occasions that it is unsustainable. I share that picture. Many municipalities feel that they are on their knees, and the authorities are working very hard. This also applies, of course, to people fleeing the biggest crisis, but it is a major challenge for Sweden. This morning in Sweden's Television, Minister for the Interior Anders Ygeman commented on border controls, and he described that it is difficult to know how it affects how many people come to Sweden. However, he said: "Overall, of course, we want fewer people to come to Sweden." That's what Anders Ygeman said. My direct question to Minister of Education Gustav Fridolin is whether he shares that picture.
i-692664c87d3f1408-304	Mr President and Elisabeth Svantesson! The government wants the whole of Europe to take greater responsibility, and that means that more countries will have to accept more of those who are now coming. One should know that if all EU countries had taken the same responsibility for people fleeing from war Syria as Sweden, we would not have needed the swelling, growing and burning refugee camps in Syria's border areas – camps where children are recruited as child soldiers and girls are given away for protection, as described in the human rights organisations' reports. Europe would have been able to cope with the refugee situation, but more must be done. That is what Swedish politics in the EU and Swedish politics here at home are working for, and we have a broad agreement on it.
i-692664c87d3f1408-306	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. I think we share the picture that more people need to do more and that the search pressure against Sweden needs to be reduced. At the moment it is difficult in many ways. My next question will nevertheless be what the government intends to do to reduce the search pressure in the short term. Indeed, many of the proposals at EU level take a very long time. We now have a situation in which only over the last two and a half months 80 000 asylum seekers have arrived in Sweden. It's a tough situation. I understand that the Minister for Education does not like the concrete proposals we presented on Monday. Now, however, it is not the Moderates who rule the kingdom, even if you can believe it sometimes, but it is the Social Democrats and the Environmental Party. The question is therefore: what are your concrete proposals to reduce the search pressure at a difficult time?
i-692664c87d3f1408-308	Mr President, I would like to We have recently delivered a wide range of very concrete proposals on how people who come here can have both a sanctuary and an opportunity to make our country their own. Some of them we managed to agree on in the agreement on migration policy, including that Sweden should be one of the countries in the EU that is part of a redistribution mechanism. This means that the EU takes greater joint responsibility and that other countries, which have renounced or sometimes refused to do so, also build up an asylum reception and comply with the EU's common asylum rules. Then there was this very thing about common rules. We are quite convinced by the government that Sweden must stand up for the common rules if we are to succeed in this. We cannot violate the international conventions we have signed. As the moderate proposal referred to by Elisabeth Svantesson was explained and presented, it actually meant just that.
i-692664c87d3f1408-311	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask a question to Minister of Social Security Annika Strandhäll, and it concerns the part of the rehabilitation guarantee relating to mental illness. The guarantee was introduced by the bourgeois government and, in brief, means that care rewards a single form of treatment in the event of a lighter mental illness – cognitive behavioural therapy, CBT. The rehabilitation guarantee has been dismissed by several bodies, most recently the Swedish National Audit Office, and one can safely say that it has been sawed together with the ankle bumps. It has been said not to work, and the message is: What if or put down? It is as if one and the same treatment method would suit everyone, and of course it is not. My question is whether this government will review the rehabilitation guarantee in that sense too, that is to say, ensure that one form of treatment is not rewarded before another. As it is today, only if you have enough money can you choose mental health care.
i-692664c87d3f1408-314	Mr President, I would like to I thank Anne Johansson for the very topical issue. The government is currently reviewing both the rehabilitation guarantee and the health billion. We have also transferred some of the money that has been included in the rehabilitation guarantee to strengthen Försäkringskassan from the end of the year. The very concrete answer to the question, however, is: Yes, the government intends to bring forward exactly what Wiwi- Anne Johansson is looking for, that is to say that within the framework of the rehabilitation guarantee, the possibility of a variety of treatment methods should be broadened as soon as possible. Because we are different, and that part has proved to be working very badly.
i-692664c87d3f1408-316	Mr President, I would like to I thank you for your answer and also for the content of your reply. I have tabled a written question on this, but I wanted to take this opportunity to receive a reply directly from the Minister for Social Security. The guarantee has cost 7 billion over the eight years it has not worked. Finland works in a completely different way. There people get healthier by other methods when you use a method that suits the individual. 30% have been able to return to work there. It is usually said that it is the evidence-based that applies, and then it is often CBT or CBT and pills, but unfortunately people do not get healthier. I am therefore very happy for the answer.
i-692664c87d3f1408-320	Mr President, I would like to My question is to Gustav Fridolin. I wonder why the Swedish Government has not condemned the terrorist attacks on civilians in Israel. A few weeks ago, a small family was on their way to the Western Wall to pray. A Palestinian terrorist rushes forward, stabs the father first, then the mother, and finally stabs the little son. He's also stabbing a rabbi who's rushing to try and help. The father and the rabbi are dying. The mother and the baby go to the hospital and stay there for a long time. This has not happened once in the last one and a half months, but occurs on average twice a day in Israel. And the Swedish Government has not yet condemned this. I think it's shameful. Why hasn't the government?
i-692664c87d3f1408-324	Mr President, I would like to Mathias Sundin is well aware that the Swedish Government condemns all violence against civilians and all terrorist attacks in Israel, Palestine and the rest of the world. We have done so in this situation in the light of the fact that we know that the spiral of violence born of violence against civilians must be brought to an end. We must force negotiations and know that this will never happen as long as the spiral of violence continues.
i-692664c87d3f1408-325	Mr President, I would like to What Gustav Fridolin says now is not true. The Swedish Government has not dissociated itself from these terrorist attacks. It has been tweeted a couple of times, generally that you are against violence and so on. These are terrorist attacks targeting civilians. It is these terrorist attacks that we must distance ourselves from, not that people defend themselves against the terrorist attacks or that the police stop the terrorist attacks by shooting those who attack. What we experienced in Trollhättan a few weeks ago is experienced on average twice a day in Israel now, and the Swedish government must distance itself from that. The Palestinian ambassador here in Sweden has not dissociated himself from this violence either. Despite direct questions in the Swedish media if she rejects the violence, she has not done so. The reaction from the Swedish government to this has been zero and nothing. It's shameful!
i-692664c87d3f1408-330	Mr President, I would like to I speak for the Swedish Government when I say that Sweden condemns violence against civilians and condemns terrorist attacks in Israel and Palestine.
i-692664c87d3f1408-332	Mr President, I would like to It is not long before the COP 21 climate summit in Paris, a meeting that can be crucial for how the world will deal with global warming. There is a wide range of work going on at different levels around Sweden and the rest of the world to reduce CO2 and other greenhouse gas emissions as far as possible. There are also more sectors involved now than there have been in the past. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for the Financial Market how he thinks it is possible to work with the financial market conditions so that this can also contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
i-692664c87d3f1408-335	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for a very important and central question! This is an area that I am very happy that a lot of activities are now going on around. There is a great interest and strong commitment from financial market actors to see just how they can contribute to more sustainable world development. Perhaps the most gratifying thing is that the conflict that has previously been thought to be very dominant, that you have to choose sustainability or profitability, is a myth that is falling. On the contrary, we see that those who invest sustainably are also those who make the best deals and get the most returns. It opens up opportunities for financial market players to be more ambitious and to do more. I think we can do a lot. We are reviewing the regulations and have asked for evidence from the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority regarding the climate risks that exist in the Swedish system. How is financial stability in Sweden affected by climate change and action against it? How do banks view climate risks when lending money to different types of projects?
i-692664c87d3f1408-339	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for the answer from the Government. I also think it is a very urgent issue and an urgent area and am pleased to hear that developments are moving in this direction. A supplementary question that feels important is whether the Government has any idea of how the discussions on these issues are going in other EU countries when the Government meets its colleagues in the Council of Ministers.
i-692664c87d3f1408-342	Mr President, I would like to As I said in my previous answer, a lot of work is going on around the world, and that also applies from a political point of view. For example, within the EU, we are now launching what is known as the Capital Markets Union. There, too, there are green signs of how to ensure that the financial market moves in line with the environmental and climate objectives that the EU has set itself and which we are working for internationally. We also work both in Sweden and in other markets to improve information and knowledge for all of us who are savers and investors in the financial markets, either through our pension system or through private savings. Here is a very fast growing commitment from consumers, from us savers. We want to do the right thing, but we need information. For example, France has now decided on carbon accounting requirements for funds to be sold to private consumers. And we are currently looking at suggestions on how we can improve information to Swedish savers about climate risks and what climate footprint different investments have.
i-692664c87d3f1408-346	Mr President, I would like to Yesterday, the Swedish Parliament decided to introduce an additional quota month in parental insurance. And the government has announced that work is now under way on a major overhaul of parental insurance. As a Christian Democrat, I am absolutely convinced that children need both their parents, and fathers, not least, are very important to their children. However, the changes that have been introduced so far have not really meant that more fathers take longer continuous leave with their children. More fathers take parenting days, but it is not so often that fathers take the primary responsibility for the children. Yet we hear from the government and from the signals that have come so far that we are prepared to move forward with changes that are on the same theme as what has been done so far. My question to the Minister for Social Security is: Is it the intention of the government that the work now under way should lead to a further restriction of parental insurance and a shorter period of parental leave?
i-692664c87d3f1408-349	Mr President, I would like to We have parental insurance in Sweden which in fact means that mothers take out four out of five days for children under two years of age. We have parental insurance in Sweden today, which means that women lose their pay and career development, that they are more on sick leave and that they have an average of 30% lower pensions. We have parental insurance today which is also different from the other social security schemes. It came in 1974. There has been some progress in Sweden with women's participation in the labour force. Some things have happened in the Swedish labour market over the past 41 years. It is clear that it is then time in Sweden to look at how we can get a modern parental insurance that supports an equal family life where children have access to both their parents. If that was what Emma Henriksson was after, the answer is yes, the government intends to do so.
i-692664c87d3f1408-352	Mr President, I would like to I cannot interpret it in any other way than that the government is prepared to propose changes that mean shortening parental leave or the actual time that you can be at home with your children. My supplementary question to the Government is: Is the government prepared to look also at changes that do not decrease but increase flexibility? We know that the design of insurance today affects mothers and fathers differently, as fathers often take out their days a little later. Is the government prepared to contribute to changes that also allow fathers to use parental leave by extending it so that they can use the time to stay at home a little longer and be primarily responsible for the children? Is the government prepared to ensure that parents can decide on their parental leave and make their everyday lives work?
i-692664c87d3f1408-355	Mr President, I would like to The government is prepared to discuss any changes that lead to a more equal parenthood in Sweden. This is good, especially for children but also for Swedish women, Swedish men and Swedish families, regardless of their appearance. In discussions, the Christian Democrats are strikingly referring to themselves as the family party. But there is not much pointing in that direction when you obviously think it's okay for fathers to take only 25% of parental leave. However, if Emma Henriksson today opens up a different approach to these issues, the government is more than happy to welcome the input that can come from the Christian Democrats.
i-692664c87d3f1408-358	Mr President, I would like to I turn to Minister of Education Gustav Fridolin. Following the Alliance's initiative, the government last week presented amended directives to the Welfare Investigation. The original directives created great concern among health care entrepreneurs and within the Ministry of Education's own remit. They became unsure whether their companies could remain in the future because the government wanted to investigate whether profits would be banned. The additional directives presented by the government have taken clear steps in the right direction. Perhaps the most important thing is that county councils should no longer be able to give up choice in primary care. It is a pity, however, that the government did not take the opportunity to set out a more constructive direction for the investigation. The malicious main mission is still in place. The focus is still on profits rather than quality. The industry is therefore still very concerned.
i-692664c87d3f1408-363	Mr President, I would like to The government is making a large number of efforts to strengthen the quality of welfare services in schools, health care and care. Above all, it is about breaking years of tax cuts that have led to less resources for these activities through investments in education, health and long-term care. These investments are made in such a way that they will come to the pupils, the users of care for the elderly and the patients involved in both public and individual operations. Investments improve quality. In a jointly funded tax system, our entry point is that the money spent in businesses should also benefit students, patients and users. That is why we would prefer profits to be reinvested in the activities, in any case profits that come from our common tax money.
i-692664c87d3f1408-365	Mr President, I would like to Before the Minister of Education became Minister, he said that it is the quality of the business that is important, not the sign on the door. Especially in these times, it feels irresponsible to spend time and resources on proposals that do not have support in the Swedish Parliament. Even more serious is that it creates great concern in the welfare that we, as the Minister pointed out, so badly need. Against this background and in the light of what the Minister has said before, one might ask in whose interest the Government clings to issues of profit and form rather than quality. Does the Minister think that it is reasonable for the government's partners to be able to rock an entire industry when there is no support for it in Parliament?
i-692664c87d3f1408-369	Mr President, I would like to Maybe you should think a little bit about who's clinging to profit issues. We have taken into account Parliament's announcement and made changes to the directives for the Welfare Investigation. It is a way for us to be sensitive to Parliament's opinion. The basic view remains, however. We believe that the tax money we give to a hospital, to a retirement home or to a school should benefit the patients, users and students. Then they should not disappear into profits placed in tax havens or elsewhere.
i-692664c87d3f1408-371	Mr President, I would like to My question about the school goes to Minister Gustav Fridolin. I choose to follow up on a previous Question Time when I put a question to Minister Aida Hadzialic. I am doing this in the light of the dramatic change in the situation since Question Time. I then asked how the upper secondary school would cope with the influx of new school pupils taken into account the flow of refugees that Sweden received. As far as I remember, the Council of State sent a comforting message. After this, the number of refugees has multiplied, and Minister Morgan Johansson has publicly said that the border is reached. Taking into account the changing circumstances, I ask the same questions again: Is there a plan to receive all the expected new students in our schools? Do we know how many will arrive in spring and autumn?
i-692664c87d3f1408-376	Mr President, I would like to I and my colleague Aida Hadzialic are deeply impressed by the way principals and teachers now roll up their sleeves to give the children who come directly from war and escape an opportunity for a good schooling. Not everything goes as fast as it has done before. Sometimes it takes longer for children to get into school, and it is of course in order when there are far more people coming from a world on fire than it has before. But I am convinced that we can and will make it. However, it will require more resources in the form of money, and today a decision was made to transfer just under 10 billion to the municipalities. It will also require resources in the form of teachers. Here we have a common responsibility to ensure that we have more teachers and that we make the best use of the teachers we have by allowing them to devote their time to teaching. We can also open up for long-distance teaching in native language. Here today, the government, through Aida Hadzialic, has decided on a directive for a rapid investigation.
i-692664c87d3f1408-379	Mr President, I would like to That's great, Minister Gustav Fridolin! My supplementary questions were just about money and teachers, and that was what the Government raised. How will this affect the finances of municipalities? Will the resources in the municipalities be sufficient at all? It is already thick in many municipalities. What about Swedish education? None of the new students know Swedish, and a lot of teachers are needed. It's a tremendous strain.
i-692664c87d3f1408-382	Mr President, I would like to Yeah, it's a huge challenge. The Prime Minister has described it as the greatest humanitarian effort our country has made since the end of the Second World War. I think that is a perfectly correct description of what is happening. Those who make this effort are largely principals and teachers. We need more to do it, and we need to gather and use the resources smartly to do it. We must ensure that teachers can spend their time teaching. We must be able to use teachers more widely by means of remote teaching, not least teachers of mother tongues. In the investigation directives that were decided today, there is also a requirement to look at whether we should give the same opportunities for remote teaching in Swedish as in other languages. This is an important subject for the students who are coming now. If we look around the corner, we know that most of Sweden's municipalities need a growing population to manage to finance the school in the long term. If we succeed in doing this, we will prevent future financial supply problems, not least for the Swedish school. It is now that it is decided, and if we succeed, we will succeed in something that actually prevents future problems.
i-692664c87d3f1408-386	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Aida Hadzialic. Today, hundreds of thousands of people in Sweden are unemployed, many of whom are young people. At the same time, there is a growing need for skilled labour in several sectors. The greatest need is in health care and care for the elderly. But also in the construction, service and industrial sectors, a shortage of people with vocational training is expected. Against this background, it is necessary for more, not fewer, students to apply for the upper secondary school vocational programme, but this has not been the case. In recent years fewer and fewer people have applied to upper secondary school vocational programmes, which is serious.
i-692664c87d3f1408-390	Mr President, I would like to I thank Håkan Bergman. The working year we have behind us at the Ministry of Education can be summed up as so that we have given great priority to vocational education and training in general, because we know that those who study vocational education and training can easily get a job. This is important both for the individual and for the supply of skills in the labour market. The starting point for a good career course can be to study a vocational programme in upper secondary school. Then we must ensure that the interaction between schools and the labour market is improved, which the government has already begun a journey towards. We need to ensure that students who study vocational programmes are eligible for higher education, which is a factor for lifelong learning but also for an economy with good adaptability. Above all, we must talk well about these training courses and say that they are the future of many students.
i-692664c87d3f1408-394	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. I am pleased that we have a government and a minister who has a different view of the vocational programme of upper secondary school. During the previous government, a picture of the vocational programmes in upper secondary school being for school-tired pupils was spread, despite the fact that the education in these programmes has a high level of knowledge. Thank you for that. Now it is not only about more people applying for upper secondary school, but also about more people completing upper secondary school. There is a major challenge in getting more young people to complete their education.
i-8xatWnwZcyDJeamF5S52Q5	Mr President, I would like to Thank you again, Håkan Bergman. Unfortunately, the government inherited a school situation where not only the PISA results fall most throughout the industrialized world, but also more than a fifth of the students fail school, i.e. they never finish high school. It's a double problem. These students do not get the skills they need to survive, and they are also twice as likely to end up in unemployment. There's a direct correlation. What the government wants to do is, among other things, to invest in the professional programmes. We know that far too many of the students who study these programs do not fix their schooling. By ensuring that students receive better support measures through better collaboration with the world of work, so that they see what their education leads to, we raise motivation. Then we think the school can develop.
i-692664c87d3f1408-402	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister Per Bolund. Recently it was once again noted in a report, this time on Swedish Radio, that thousands of Swedes are in debt forever – so-called eternity debtors. Despite the fact that there has been a law on debt restructuring in Sweden for a long time, very many people have been in debt for more than 20 years. The report revealed that at least 25 000 Swedes still have major problems with debts arising from the housing crash and financial crisis of the 1990s. There is currently no limit to the age of a claim. There are frightening examples of people who in the early 1990s had to sell their homes with loss, resulting in millions of debts.
i-692664c87d3f1408-407	Mr President, I would like to I thank Jessika Roswall. The government is very concerned about developments in credit developments and above all over-indebtedness. It is both that too many people have been stuck in debt for too long and that, unfortunately, more and more people end up in the register of the bailiff and debt problems. This can have a major impact on the situation of the family and the children who may be there, but also on the entire national economy. Society makes quite a loss when people cannot be active in the economy. The Government has therefore developed a strategy against over-indebtedness, which is contained in the budget now on the table of the Riksdag. The strategy deals with both preventive measures, such as increasing knowledge and regional efforts to help people in debt problems, and rehabilitation measures, such as giving more people an opportunity to deleveraging, seeking out people who could be helped with debt restructuring and increasing the involvement of financial institutions.
i-692664c87d3f1408-411	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. I am familiar with the strategy to combat over-indebtedness. I think it is a good thing, and I am sure we will be able to agree on many of the ideas there. Today, the civil committee visited the Swedish National Audit Office. A recent report from the agency states that 28 000 individuals would probably be eligible for debt restructuring if they applied. The Swedish Enforcement Authority has a project with certain outreach activities, and that is a good thing. I heard the Government talk about several proposals and about the great losses to society, but are there any concrete measures to help the eternal debtors that the Government can tell us about today?
i-692664c87d3f1408-415	Mr President, I would like to The government is actively working on these issues. One of the measures we have already taken is to significantly increase the resources for the Swedish Enforcement Authority in the budget that is on Parliament's table so that it can work with over-indebtedness and provide the opportunity for debt restructuring. It is a lot about outreach and getting hold of everyone who would be entitled to debt restructuring but who does not know it or does not have the capacity to make the necessary contacts. It is about SEK 10 million for this work in the first few years, and then it increases to SEK 15 million. The government is also working on new legislation that reviews the debt restructuring act to enable more people to get help and so that you can go in earlier. It should not take so long to go in with efforts. We are constantly working to streamline the agencies' work and ensure that regulations and legislation are in place, but we also have the opportunity to work long-term. We are looking, for example, at the limitation period for loans, which is a system that exists in other countries and which could possibly become applicable if the measures do not work.
i-692664c87d3f1408-420	Mr President, I would like to As we heard, it is almost time for COP 21, the great climate summit. However, the UNESCO General Conference is already taking place in Paris, where, moreover, the Minister for Education has been and has made a number of valuable contributions. UNESCO works a lot with education and training for sustainable development, which is one way of trying to raise awareness of the importance of education and the important key it can be to make more people aware of the future that can await future generations. Sweden has taken a long step, and we have a leadership shirt. We have written into all our policy documents, from preschool curricula to the Higher Education Act, that we should work on this. But then we are very bad at following up. My question goes to the Minister for Education. Could this be an important approach to assessing the impact of education?
i-WRabAEm7AdZrVcp66xzxcH	Mr President and Betty Malmberg! The Minister for Education told me that I would take the question when I have worked on it in the past year. I also attended the UNESCO Conference in Japan last year, on this theme. I fully agree with the ambition and the description of the problems. This is an issue that is urgent if we are to move in a sustainable direction, and we must tackle this in our country as well. Some of the things that the government has already done at the department regarding this is to signal that the theme itself should go into virtually all the work that we do. It must be a thread that runs through all the commitment we have. This is not an isolated issue, but something that needs to characterise all our work.
i-692664c87d3f1408-427	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. Surely it is the case, the Minister, that this particular theme, as I pointed out, is already inscribed in all our policy documents. Sweden today has the lead shirt and is referred to as the good example of how we will work to become more skilled in sustainable development. At that point, I think we have a particular responsibility to try to move on to see: Are we doing the right things? We know what goal we want to achieve. We know that all 194 Member States want to achieve the same objective, sustainable development. But then we also need to know whether we are doing the right things or whether we need to screw the systems in order to achieve the goal more quickly or better. I therefore hope that the Government can take on board the importance that we now have to follow up and evaluate the existing governance documents.
i-7XaaZD9EqyBAWfYT6Ezaa7	Mr President, I would like to Thanks again, Betty Malmberg! It is true that this issue is part of many policy documents but not all. We are looking at where to supplement. Just to give you an example: our entrepreneurship efforts are not focused on this. That was the case before – it was removed by the previous government. I believe, however, that we need better follow-up on this issue to know where we stand and where we need to move in the future.
i-692664c87d3f1408-435	Mr President, I would like to My question I would like to put to Mr Per Bolund, Minister for Finance and Consumer Affairs. It is also about sustainable development. In order to achieve environmental objectives and to achieve a just world, we need to make a lot of efforts. Among other things, it is important to influence the production and consumption of goods. A clear majority of the Swedish people think it is an important issue and also want to act sustainably, both socially and environmentally. Last year there was a unique increase: 38 percent more of organic goods in Sweden. Nevertheless, only 5.7 % of food is produced organically. My question to the Government is about what thoughts there are to increase the proportion of food that is sustainably produced.
i-692664c87d3f1408-438	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Eva Lindh, for an important and central issue. It is clear that there is strong pressure and desire from consumers to be able to do more. The tools are used. You use eco-labels, you like to buy organically and you buy fair trade labels to increase social sustainability. One problem that many consumers feel is that they do not have enough tools, not enough information to make the well thought-out decisions they want to make, simply to influence the world in a positive direction. We look at how we can improve opportunities for consumers, for example through Eco-labelling Sweden, which is working to constantly review its accounts. But it is also about seeing if there are opportunities to provide incentives and support to increase, for example, the production of sustainably produced products. I know that this is part of the food strategy on which rural ministers are working. There we also look at how we can make it easier for farmers to switch to organic production. Today, demand for organic products is often greater than supply. If we can create a better match, that's good.
i-692664c87d3f1408-442	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. I also wonder: the strategy which the government intends to develop will it support? Can the Government give some examples of what that strategy might contain? What is the government's time frame for developing the strategy?
i-692664c87d3f1408-444	Mr President, I would like to The strategy referred to by Eva Lindh is a strategy that we announce in this year's budget but which is intended to be delivered in next year's budget. During the year, we will work on a strategy for sustainable consumption, precisely to see how we from the political side – from government and parliament – can help consumers to be as active as we all want to be. These are, above all, those areas where we know that there is a major environmental aspect and a strong social aspect: transport, housing, food and so on. But we are also looking at the developments that are now coming very quickly, with a reshaping of the consumer markets. There, for example, we talk about the circular economy, being able to work with ending cycles and finding new business models. It is also about the economy of the country, where we are increasingly beginning to share our goods and services. It is a very positive effect that provides social opportunities – you connect closer networks and get to know each other and your neighbours – and also provides new opportunities to reduce resource consumption and streamline resource use. There are great opportunities here.
i-692664c87d3f1408-448	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister Aida Hadzialic. The situation around Sweden's municipalities is in many places quite strained, and they are working hard with many challenges to cope with the situation that arises with many new arrivals. Among other things, many municipalities have great challenges in hiring SFI teachers to meet the needs that exist. In an interview with Swedish Radio earlier last autumn, the Government said: That's what she said in answer to a question about how to make sure there's more SFI teachers coming out. The problem is that the SFI teachers are not part of the government's teacher's salary lift. Should the Government's answer to the question in Swedish Radio be interpreted so that the Government has now changed its mind and broadens the teacher's salary to include SFI teachers? If so, what additional professions, including adult teachers, are also expected to be included in the new expansion?
i-4g8kEFxd916to6W6qv6rFv	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Erik Bengtzboe, for the question! When I am quoted, I would like to be quoted correctly. True, I have said what I said in that context, in that article. But what I was referring to was that the teacher's salary investment that we are doing primarily is about elementary school and upper secondary school. On the other hand, we are making individual efforts to recruit more teachers to SFI teachers and to give more opportunities to become qualified SFI teachers so that those who go through such Swedish teaching will receive as good a quality teaching as possible.
i-692664c87d3f1408-453	Mr President, I would like to It is interesting that the Government claims that she is correctly quoted but still not correctly quoted. The quote is either correct or not correct, isn't it? I find it remarkable that the government claims to invest in the SFI teachers when the truth is that it makes it less profitable to become SFI-leader relative to other teachers in a situation when the need for SFI teachers is great. The student who is thinking of becoming either a SFI teacher or a Swedish teacher at comprehensive school or upper secondary school receives a bonus in salary from the government if it chooses not to become a SFI teacher. Does the government not see that there is a great challenge in what you are doing and that the teacher's salary boost you have developed creates a situation in the classroom and for teachers where many of the most important occupational categories at the moment unfortunately disappear from school? We are simply forcing people away from occupations where we absolutely need them most of all. Shouldn't the government realise its mistake – that perhaps it shouldn't go in and smudge and smudge in individual wage initiatives for individual occupational groups – and back that decision and instead work wider?
i-692664c87d3f1408-457	Mr President, I would like to Thank you again for the question. Yes, the resources are finite. The government chooses to prioritise primary and secondary school, because we know that there will be more than 65 000 teachers missing by 2020 in this area. It is a major problem for the quality of school. However, I find it remarkable that I am being asked questions about this precisely from moderate quarters where there is no such investment in teachers' salaries at all. This is about a group of academics who have studied for a long time and made great investments in their schooling. But the Moderates choose not to reward them for the investment they have made and for the importance they have for the future Swedish school. My counter-question is, What do the Moderates intend to do to overcome the teacher shortage? But we will have to discuss this at another time.
i-692664c87d3f1408-462	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask a question to Minister of Education Gustav Fridolin. Sweden's municipalities and schools are now facing a big challenge when we have a lot of new students who need to go to school and get a school place. Sweden's free schools have very positively announced that they want to be a large part of this and are included in the work of cutting and starting more new schools so that all our students in Sweden can get a good school. But what the government has done in the past is to say in its investigation that it wants to focus on banning free schools, with the municipal veto. My question to the Minister is therefore: why does one choose to focus on banning schools rather than allowing all schools, regardless of their principal, to be involved in ensuring that we have more training places for our students?
i-692664c87d3f1408-465	Mr President, I would like to No, Ida Drougge, you know we have no policy to ban schools. On the other hand, we think it is reasonable that when you establish a school you make an agreement with the school in which you establish it so that the municipality is able to assume the overall responsibility that the Swedish headship entails for the school. Then we are making special demands on the schools that are commercially run. No rules should be changed for non-commercial schools. In the situation that we are in now, I am also very happy that Sweden's free schools want to be involved and take responsibility for meeting newly arrived students. Schools that do not have queues to their places can already now choose to contact their municipality and offer help in the work of receiving new arrivals and coordinating it with the municipality. This possibility is available to all those free schools who do not have queues to their places. When it comes to the schools in line, we look at how the rules work, and if we do, we will change the rules. We agree on this so that they too can help and take responsibility for newly arrived students.
i-692664c87d3f1408-468	Mr President, I would like to The assessment that the Minister is talking about, that you need to look at the municipalities if there is a pupil base and that the situation for schools is working, is already being made today. Giving municipalities, which are not always impartial in these contexts, the opportunity to veto the start-up of new schools is quite the wrong focus. Instead, the government could have chosen to spend time and energy on finding more schools and focusing on it. I can tell you that you choose not to, and that is sad.
i-692664c87d3f1408-470	Mr President, I would like to Yes, we do. There is nothing as prioritised as getting more school places, more teachers and better opportunities to receive the many new students coming to Sweden. I believe that this also means that the issue we are discussing now is not really going to be a huge centre, because the municipalities will want all the help and cooperation they can get in order to get more school places. At the same time, the municipalities in the school system we have today have overall responsibility for the school situation. Not least the reception of new arrivals underlines the importance of having a school that is not becoming increasingly segregated. In this work, it will be important for municipalities to also look at the establishment of new schools and discuss where they should be and how to do so, so that new schools do not increase inequality but reduce it. It is extremely important for Sweden for those who will now not only be a sanctuary but also a country where they can participate, work and contribute.
i-692664c87d3f1408-472	I would like to thank the participating ministers and Members for today's Question Time, which is now closed.
i-692664c87d3f1408-473	Mr President, I would like to I have a few comments on what the Government talked about earlier. There was talk of fighting windmills like Don Quijote. I do not believe that I, Erik and AnnAnn-Charlotte are doing so today. We're fighting for more business. I've got a little idea. You're no worse than you can change, there's an expression called. This seems to be the case with Minister Johansson's colleague, Minister Damberg – unfortunately, I can say this time. In 2010, he wrote a debate article in Svenska Dagbladet. The tax reduction for domestic services to families with children should therefore be increased. Contrary to what the wide-ranging debate may have shown, the cost of today's tax reduction for domestic services is relatively moderate. ..................................................... There are a lot of things that you would like to comment on in that quote, but I thought a little bit about the family with children and the expansion that your colleague Minister Damberg was talking about at the time. In this connection, I would like to put a question to Minister Ylva Johansson. Is there still the ambition to increase the RUT deduction for families with children? The government's now pending proposal runs counter to this. That ambition sounds pretty bad if it is still there. Finally, I would like to point out that the RUT and ROT deductions do not mean that you get more money from the state but that you can keep more of your earned and estimated money.
i-692664c87d3f1408-477	Mr President, I would like to I asked the question earlier about the reason for making RUT worse, and it was suggested that you should not clean indoor pools or have bartenders at home. The basis for this is the rhetoric of class struggle. I believe that the Social Democrats are having an extremely difficult time with this issue. It is a reform that has been very popular and has done black jobs white. It must be difficult to be a social democrat and decide on this issue, and then you choose to halve. When I asked how many indoor pools had been cleaned using the RUT deduction, I did not get an answer. J ag has done some research on the matter with the help of Parliament's investigation service, which is amusingly shortened RUT. They could not find out how many indoor pools have been cleaned using the RUT deduction. My conclusion with regard to the deterioration is that this is pure class struggle rhetoric and that we want to tell the Swedish people that the deduction is used for some kind of luxury consumption for which it is not actually used. In fact, it is not about luxury consumption but about making everyday life come together for thousands of families around the country. We have also seen that the use of RUT services has increased. One might think that it was only in Stockholm, but out in the rest of the country it has increased a lot. This is a good reform that should remain. I don't understand why the government chooses to make things worse.
i-692664c87d3f1408-480	Mr President, I would like to To Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson who apparently had heard me say on TV that RUT deductions would lead to increased gaps, I would say that you must have misunderstood or listened poorly. That is not my opinion, nor is it what I have put on television. When implementing tax reductions for certain services or certain groups, it is an important question how it is to be financed. Of course, it affects the outcome of tax cuts, and there is always an alternative use for money. But the government keeps the RUT deduction. On 23 October, on behalf of the Government, I presented proposals to extend the RUT deduction for floating, horticultural and IT services at home. To Erik Andersson, who seems to have a fixation on cleaning indoor pools – I do not – I want to say that it is easy to be a social democrat. My focus is on the jobs, and then I think it leads to a dead end to focus on cleaning indoor pools. I believe that it is a very limited part of the RUT deduction that has so far been used for this, and I believe that this use will continue to be limited. Erik Andersson described it as that thousands of families will get their daily lives together with the help of RUT deductions, and I do not think they will be affected by a change concerning indoor pools. So that's not a focus for me.
i-692664c87d3f1408-483	Mr President, I would like to I want to say to the Minister for Labour that the right thing to do is right. I heard an increase in divides on the TV and I wrote it down. But if I've heard wrong, I'm sorry. It's b ra. It's about important jobs to get into the labour market. I would like to emphasise that the RUT deduction means lower thresholds into the labour market. They become a sort of step-in job that is extremely important pieces of the puzzle. I am pleased with the agreement reached on 23 October. But I also believe that long-termism is needed. This is what I, Erik and Ulrika are looking for in our speeches. We see them as everyday jobs. As I said, it is also a gender equality reform. I would like to emphasise that I believe that it will have much better effects than a father's month, which has not been seen to have such effects. RUT deductions are a piece of the puzzle in everyday life for families, not only here and now, but also in the future. I imagine that we will see much more of that sector emerge. It is a job-creating measure. As far as validation is concerned, as the Minister for Labour mentioned in his reply, I think it is a good thing that we are working on this issue and realise that it has been a long way behind. Procurement allows those services to be very precise and can lead to faster processing while maintaining quality. It is also a good thing that compensation is given to the municipalities. It'll take a little while. These are old solutions. I understand that paper is being faxed today. It feels a little old-fashioned and leads to a inertia in the system that becomes heavy in such a situation that we find ourselves in. There is talk of a nine-month procedure to get the papers in to the Migration Agency. Last but not least, Ylva Johansson, as I understood it, said that it is pragmatic when it comes to everyday work and that you lift all stones. I thank you for that.
i-692664c87d3f1408-490	Mr President, I would like to I will return to my view that the Moderates are fighting a little against windmills. The government keeps the RUT deduction. We have also proposed, together with four bourgeois parties, an extension of the RUT deduction. To paint that the government would be very opposed to this, I think, is to fight against windmills. I would also like to say that we have huge challenges to solve in the labour market. Many of them are not solved with RUT deductions. One of the biggest challenges is that today we have a record number of job vacancies that are not being filled, and we have a poorly functioning labour market. For it to work better, large investments in education are needed. There is a need for radical reform of employment services and labour market policies, and there needs to be strong investment in housing construction. In this way, people can educate themselves to and move to the job vacancies.
i-692664c87d3f1408-492	Mr President, I would like to Anette Åkesson has asked me four questions in her interpellation. First of all, she asks what measures I take to ensure that Sweden will regain its position as a leader in digitalisation in the future. Secondly, Anette Åkesson wonders how I intend to improve the conditions for innovation projects to finance their activities, for example through venture capital. Thirdly, she asks me whether I am considering setting up a digitisation agency that takes on a predominantly responsibility for development. Fourthly, Anette Åkesson asks me what I think we can learn from countries such as Switzerland, Ireland and Estonia on digitalisation. Let me begin by confirming that digitalisation is the single largest factor of change in our time. It affects all parts of society. Sweden is and has been a world-leading IT nation for many years. We have digital infrastructure and digital skills that few other countries can match. Sweden has one of the world's most developed IT industries and one of the most exciting start-up scenes in the world. We have well-developed infrastructure and high- IT maturity in the population. For example, Sweden ranks third in the World Economic Forums Networked Readiness Index. The European Commission's Digital Economy and Society Index ranks Sweden as number two of the EU's 28 Member States. Overall, Sweden has very good conditions for society's digitalisation, and we have come a long way. In order for us to be able to use the opportunities of digitalisation to develop society in the future, policies in the area of digitalisation need to continue to be developed. In February, the Government commissioned the Digitalisation Commission to identify, among other things, strategic areas that should be taken into account in the development of policy in this area. The work will be presented at the beginning of December this year. Within the framework of the National Innovation Council led by the Prime Minister, the need for a collaborative programme in digitalization has been identified. My goal and the government's goal is that Sweden should continue to be a leading IT nation – for jobs, competitiveness, climate and a sustainable society. One important focus area is the digitalisation of the public sector. Together, we will work smarter to create a collaborative and innovative public administration. Then we must give priority to digital renewal and think digitally first. Therefore, the Government has decided on a special investment in eGovernment in 2015– 2018– a programme for digital renewal of public Sweden. The government's assessment is that complex issues that affect society as a whole need to be handled by organisations in collaboration, not by an individual authority. Therefore, the implementation of the programme is based on close collaboration between many different actors in society. The Government intends, among other things, to appoint a number of authorities with special coordination responsibility for digital renewal. Priority areas are environmental information, the food chain, community building and simplification for businesses. An important part of the work is the letter of intent for digital renewal of the public Sweden that the government recently signed with SKL, Swedish Municipalities and County Councils. The aim is to work together to create a public eGovernment that meets the expectations of citizens, organisations and companies in an increasingly digitised society. The Government has also established a council for the digitisation of public Sweden. The Council will act as a forum for coordination at several levels, between authorities, between municipalities and county councils and within the Government Office. Another important focus area is to make it easier for companies, ranging from start-up companies to established companies. One way is to enable the re-use of data and to work with the public sector in open innovation. The public sector sits on a wide range of information that can become business opportunities for innovators and entrepreneurs, if we enable them to solve both today's and tomorrow's societal challenges and enable growing companies. The government continuously monitors the digitisation of other countries. For example, during the autumn I will visit Estonia, Finland, the United States and India to learn from their work. Among other things, we conduct an in-depth study of Estonia's work on the X-road project.
i-692664c87d3f1408-502	Mr President, I would like to At first, I would like to thank the Minister for IT for his reply. On the one hand, it contains several points that I am pleased, for example, that the government seems to see the importance of digitalisation, that it has a number of different proposals and that it realises that Sweden can learn from other countries. On the other hand, I'm a little worried about the self-image. Sweden has been on top, and much is still good. But does the government not understand that we have started to lag behind in the field of IT and that it takes strength to get back on track? There is a great risk that insufficient action will be taken. The conditions are so far good. I agree that cooperation is important. However, in all situations it cannot be the solution to start a new council or forum. In addition, it appears that this applies only to public sector cooperation. It is usually called shared responsibility is not a responsibility, so surely the solution to getting a holistic approach can hardly be to appoint – I quote – a number of authorities with special responsibility for the renewal of digital innovation. There is no intrinsic value in creating new authorities, and it is really politically uninteresting how it is organised, but there is a need for something or someone to get the responsibility and take hold of the tasks that are necessary to coordinate centrally. This applies not least because we have a far-reaching autonomy in Sweden where many of the tasks carried out are handled by municipalities and county councils. In addition, more cooperation is also needed between public and private actors. My question on how the conditions for financing innovation projects can be improved was not answered. Venture capital is necessary for financing. Public funds cannot be the only option, especially in view of the welfare challenges we face. Many of the Swedish companies are bought by foreign operators. It is not wrong, but for Sweden to be able to be competitive in the long term, it should be in everyone's interest to attract private investment to creative projects.
i-692664c87d3f1408-507	Then I wonder whether the Government really believes that various councils and forums should solve such overall challenges as the development of the necessary standardisation and that we better take care of innovations and various successful projects that have been tested on a smaller scale. Long-termism is called for, like something or someone who is a collective force, who monitors digitalisation and who promotes development in Sweden as well. The Government addresses the possibility for companies to use the large amount of information that the public sector sits on, so-called big data. A lot has been opened up to innovations in some municipalities and municipal companies, but does Mehmet Kaplan also believe that we should lift the limitations we have in Sweden on how we collect and use data? New products can be created using large amounts of anonymised data. We are not so many in Sweden so an access to the whole is requested. But today it is very limited who gets access to data. Do I understand correctly that the Government wants to change the legislation here?
i-8xGHjyASEAwq5iDjUk8hje	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Anette Åkesson, for the follow-up questions! It is true that Sweden has no digitisation authority or, for that matter, no IT authority. I agree with Anette Åkesson that there is no intrinsic value in appointing new authorities. I also agree that it is important that there is coordination in this area. When it comes to financing, we from the government want to improve the financing conditions for innovative and growth-oriented companies in the development phase in various ways. This applies not only to digitalisation and the IT industry, but to many other areas. Reform is currently under way with the aim of strengthening the supply of development capital for small and medium-sized enterprises. In February this year, the Government appointed a special investigator, the so-called Financing Investigation. The final report, submitted in June, contains proposals for structural changes and efforts to strengthen the ability of companies to meet their risk capital needs. Several of the proposals are based on an ambition to seek greater synergy between public and private capital. We contribute to exchange and increased volumes of venture development capital. Through profit sharing, investments can be more directed towards earlier stages of development where there are market-supplementary needs. The Government will return to Parliament with proposals on how to improve access to venture capital and how the state can work smarter and more efficiently. The 2016 budget proposal announced reforms and efforts in this area. It proposes the creation of a new national fund-in-fund company with the task of investing in private funds geared towards venture capital investments in early stage enterprises. This will include existing Inland Innovation and Fouriertransform companies. In the 2016 budget proposal, the government also announced that, in accordance with the investigator's proposal, it would review the possibilities of establishing a loan guarantee instrument aimed at supporting lending to companies in need of financing for development and expansion. The funding study also highlights the need to strengthen efforts during the earliest stages of development and to propose additional funds, such as innovation loans and verification efforts. In line with this, the budget proposal for 2016 also includes proposals to strengthen Almi for growth and innovation financing of SEK 100 million over three years from next year. These different approaches are primarily about making sure to create a good breeding ground in order to be able to grow further in the business environment that, according to many international assessors, is among the best in the world. This is not because of this government and not because of the previous government, but because of a large number of governments that have invested properly and created good conditions. It includes the former government and our government which is a line of regressive efforts that can create the potential of these companies to grow. When it comes to the question that was about how we should make sure that the agency can handle these questions, I do not – as little as Anette Åkesson – believe that an authority sits on all the answers. It is better to allow the expert authorities in the field, including the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency, to work with what they are good at. Then, through budget work and here in Parliament, we will make sure that we get a good development.
i-692664c87d3f1408-518	Mr President, I would like to It is positive that the government wants to work on these issues. I very much look forward to the proposal that will be made on this subject with venture capital. On the other hand, I am still asking how one believes that a responsibility shared by many different institutions should work. There will be no overall responsibility if it is distributed – shared responsibility is not a responsibility. The trends of digitalisation, urbanisation and globalisation should really suit us as relatively small countries. We should be able to be fast-footed and keep up, perhaps even lead the development. Unfortunately, this does not seem to be the case, and there is a risk that we will find ourselves in a position where we are constantly trying to adapt to developments afterwards. The United States takes precedence, as do several other countries. I am particularly pleased that Mehmet Kaplan will visit Estonia. We are in the midst of the greatest social change since industrialisation. The sharing economy and more self-employed people who may even be engaged in global activities are just a few areas that impose new requirements on tax systems and legislation and are likely to lead to further coordination in more areas between states. Politics has a responsibility. The labour market is also facing completely new challenges. A lot of jobs will disappear, but they will also be created. It has always been important to create good conditions for companies and entrepreneurship, but it now has a completely new dimension. It will not be enough just to ensure smooth handling and reduced bureaucracy. There will be a need for fresh thinking in many areas. And both older and younger workers must be equipped to maintain and maintain the required skills. Digitization affects everything. It is not a task for an IT department; it is a way to streamline existing processes. It therefore affects all activities, both in the private sector and in the public sector. Those in control of their processes will be able to optimise them more easily and quickly by developing digital tools. Competition becomes murderous in a completely new way because borders do not exist in a digital world. Digitalisation already affects how we communicate with each other and what we do in our free time. We are moving towards a society where more and more products and services have no marginal cost, and we do not yet know the consequences. Sweden needs to be more at the forefront. In the public sector too, innovation is important. Setting efficiency requirements for public authorities is something that is already being done. That's one way. However, in order to benefit from creative solutions, the business community needs to be more involved in welfare activities. How does the Minister for Information Technology think that we can successfully involve entrepreneurs in the activities of authorities, municipalities and county councils? By that I mean a way that both companies and the public benefit. We also need to be better at systematically promoting creative forces and taking advantage of innovations throughout society. How does the Government believe that we can work concretely to take advantage of all the possibilities of digitalisation?
i-692664c87d3f1408-527	Mr President, I would like to I thank Anette Åkesson for giving us the opportunity to highlight this extremely important issue. In some other policy areas there are ideological blind spots. Here we do not have such questions, but here, whether we are in opposition or in government, we are trying both to encourage each other and to find new ways forward. The area is particularly ill-suited to ideological struggle. Here it is important to ensure that the actors – certainly not primarily the state, but many others, especially private, but also municipal and regional, such as county councils – have good conditions. How, then, does the government think that these good conditions can be created? As Minister of IT, I have overall responsibility and have completed the course. I want to see a national power collection where the state, municipalities and the IT industry work together for a smarter Sweden. This will take the first step towards a clear goal: we will regain our position as one of the leading countries in the world in digital governance. This will provide better conditions for all SMEs wishing to see the opening up of government and public administration – with open data, good business conditions and labour law conducive to small business. Through the Council for Digitalization of Public Sweden, which now exists, the government gathers the necessary expertise to implement our efforts on what we call The initiative will enable us to succeed in our overall goals for jobs, climate and education. These include representatives from important policy areas such as education, health care and care, as well as competence from the heaviest IT agencies. This is done in order for everyone to have the same, mindset, that what we do from public Sweden should be able to be so open that the other actors, such as innovative companies and entrepreneurs, have access to different types of inputs that can enable them to start and grow. When you look at our digital agenda and the goals we have set ourselves, you can see that policies in the area of digitalisation are in great need of development. We also state this in the heaviest document that the government gives up every year, namely the budget bill, in this case for 2016. The Digitisation Commission, which earlier this year was commissioned by the Government to carry out an international analysis that highlights and highlights what may affect digitalisation in Sweden and identify strategic areas that should be taken into account in the development of the future digitalization policy, is included in the basics. The work will be presented in December. Within the framework of the National Innovation Council, the need for a so-called collaborative programme for digitisation has been identified. It's also something we're working on. Not having a separate authority dedicated to this task does not mean that there should not be a collection in the matter with clear direction and speed. On the other hand, we definitely need to be better at telling you how things are. I will come back in the next speech to respond to some of the issues raised by Anette Åkesson in a commendable way regarding which countries are located.
i-692664c87d3f1408-533	Mr President, I would like to It is, I must admit, a little difficult to have an overview of all the Councils, forums, Commissions and such things, but it is positive that there is an international analysis going on. I hope that we can all have it in December. We look forward to that. I would like to thank Mehmet Kaplan for the debate. We are only at the beginning of a development that we cannot yet imagine the end of. Developments are not waiting for us. Putting your head in the sand and thinking that everything will continue to be as it has always been is not an option. It's good that the government is working on the issues, but I'm afraid it's not enough. Sweden has lost speed, and we need strong efforts to regain the top positions we have had. Better general conditions are needed for entrepreneurship, further ways of promoting private finance for new businesses, more focus on facilitating innovation in both the private and public sectors, greater preparedness for the rapid development that is taking place, and transparency to cooperate more with the business community in a mutually beneficial way. In addition, we need to sharpen our competitiveness by pooling our energies. Whether or not to do so within the framework of an authority is not the decisive factor. But we need to think long-term and at the same time address the immediate challenges we have already identified, such as the great need for standardisation, which I have heard nothing about wanting to address, and better monitoring of what is happening in digitalization globally. We can hope for the latter to some extent. There are still a lot of open questions, not least whether the Government is prepared to change the legislation regarding access to data. I look forward to having the opportunity to raise those issues again in the future. As I said, I would like to thank you for the debate.
i-692664c87d3f1408-538	Mr President, I would like to I would like to take this opportunity to thank Anette Åkesson for a constructive debate and discussion. All parties in Parliament benefit from the fact that the debate is held at an objective level on this issue, and I think that Anette Åkesson has succeeded in doing so. With regard to the countries mentioned in Anette Åkesson's interpellation, I would like to make a few comments. We need to learn from other countries, and other countries learn from us. The article Anette Åkesson refers to shows that Sweden is the second highest of all 50 countries, just after Singapore, in the Digital Evolution Index developed by Harvard Business Review. The second aspect of the article is how quickly and in what direction countries have developed over time. Sweden basically maintains its position, but does not strengthen it. We are already high and have been doing so for a number of years. We must remember that Sweden is higher in the Digital Evolution Index than all three countries Anette Åkesson mentions. Actually, the article says that the three countries Anette Åkesson mentions are not examples. On the contrary, they develop slowly and rank lower than Sweden in the main index. This does not mean that we would be satisfied, on the contrary. I appreciate and welcome Anette Åkesson's ambitious entry into the subject. I will do everything I can to respond to the requests, cheers and spurs that Anette Åkesson has offered, but also to ensure that we as a country take the next step in accordance with the facts and in accordance with the kind of evidence-based research that usually produces good results in very much of the work in other areas. That is why I thank Anette Åkesson once again for the interpellation.
i-692664c87d3f1408-542	Mr President, I would like to Erik Andersson has asked the Minister for Finance how the Government believes that taxation of broadband expansion or use of existing internet connections would affect internet use and technology development in Sweden. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. Access to broadband is a prerequisite for increased IT use in society and for Sweden to continue to be a prominent IT nation. The Government therefore has no intention of taking measures that may hamper the expansion. The government also has no plans to introduce a broadband tax. On the contrary, the government sees a need for efforts to increase access to high-speed broadband in less populated areas. For this reason, the Government has allocated SEK 3.25 billion for broadband expansion under the Rural Development Programme until 2020. In addition, there are also investments in broadband infrastructure in the northern part of the country under the regional fund programmes. These investments amount to SEK 1.2 billion during the same period. In addition, the Government has introduced an investment in regional broadband coordinators to support and promote the expansion and act as contact points for broadband issues in each county for both private and public actors.
i-692664c87d3f1408-547	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Government for its answer. The issue is very justified by the fact that a working party within the Green Party has worked out a few points, such as a broadband tax. I've been trying to find out the background to this. One of the questions was that many cultural workers are unemployed. Is this a way for the Green Party to finance the unemployed cultural workers? Like all other people who have trained to do something, if there are no jobs in that sector, they can work with other things until they find their dream job, for example. However, I am concerned about the broadband tax being discussed in the working group. As I understand it, the question to the Green Party's Party Executive and then possibly at some congress will be raised. In the light of the encouraging answer that the government has no plans to introduce a broadband tax, I am nevertheless concerned, given that the issue is still alive within one of the two government parties. The Green Party must not forget that it is a government party. What it says and comes up with can cause some unrest in the country. I understand that those who build fiber, if you say so, and those who might connect to fiber are concerned if it were to be a tax. It will simply hamper development. I am pleased to see that the government has continued the reforms of the alliance government with the 3.25 billion. It is also believed that 90 percent of all households in the country should have access to broadband by 100 megabits per second. Within my party, the Moderates, we want it to be followed up in 2017 to see if more efforts are to be made to ensure that broadband connectivity can benefit more people throughout the country. Ultimately, it is a question of democracy if you have access to broadband. It is about contacts with the authorities and much more. Especially if you are an entrepreneur in rural areas, it is very important. The Government says that the government should not introduce a broadband tax. But the Government does not convince me, given that the issue is still alive in one of the government-supporting parties, the Green Party.
i-9DhgkSzsL1CGSKWAQDedQ2	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Erik Andersson, both for the question and for the follow-up thoughts! It is important to point out that the proposal referred to is not that of the Green Party, but that of an independent working group set up by the party. It is not, therefore, the policy of the party, nor the policy of the government. Access to broadband is a prerequisite for the increased use of IT in society. In order for Sweden to continue to be a prominent IT nation, it is one of the basic conditions. That is why the government has no intention – I repeat, no intention – of introducing measures that may hamper the expansion. On the contrary, the government sees a need for efforts to increase access to high-speed broadband in less populated areas. That's why we're putting a lot of money into this place. Broadband connectivity is also very important throughout the country. Having good connectivity is today an absolute necessity for people to be part of society. You don't just handle events in your life with it. When you have a child, you need to report to the authorities, school and other authorities when you have a child. You also need IT to be able to start a business in a smooth way, work, have contacts with authorities and socialize with friends. The Government is investing SEK 3.25 billion in the rural programme to give more people in rural areas the opportunity for good connectivity. One thing is important for Erik Andersson and others who listen to the debate to know. It is that the amount is twice as much as in the last programming period.
i-692664c87d3f1408-557	Mr President, I would like to The Government believes that the working group does not represent the policy of the Green Party. But it has been understood that this would be the policy of the Green Party. The group has not just been picked out on the town and then presented a proposal to the party board? Some connection to the Green Party has the task force. Whether or not it will be the policy of the Green Party will be determined by the decisions taken at the Congress of the Green Party. I cannot imagine that it is moderates or people from any other party who sit on the working party, but it is certainly members of the Green Party who have looked at a new cultural policy for the Green Party, because there was perhaps a lack of one. On the other hand, I understand that the Government does not want to be associated with the working group. It has also proposed banning advertising in public transport and replacing it with poetry, for example. It could be nice. But we may wonder what the money that the advertising revenue gives should be taken from. In Stockholm, for example, where I work, we do not need less public transport, but more. If I have understood correctly, it is Tjia Torpe who has led the task force. I am, of course, concerned because the Green Party is one of the government parties. In the various negotiations that take place between the Green Party and the Social Democrats, there can be a little anything. This is particularly true because the government has broken one or two electoral promises. Perhaps it is a little harder for me to say something because I have been focusing most on the Social Democrats for some time in this House. Bypass Stockholm is not something you really stand up for. But it will hopefully still be built. Whether the Government believes that the working group is a free working group, it is linked to the Green Party. I'm really worried about that.
i-692664c87d3f1408-563	Mr President, I would like to Nevertheless, I should like to thank Erik Andersson in a certain way. He persists in asserting a certain thing despite me being very clear here. Moreover, I am in the Chamber where everything I say is written down and readable, and I am also watching afterwards. I am very clear about this. I was clear last week as well. During Question Time, colleagues to Erik Andersson raised the question here in the Riksdag. I really have nothing more to say in this except that the government has once again shown how we will work with digitalisation in the future. There are proposals from Erik Andersson and others welcome. We often raise these issues before going to Brussels to work on digitisation issues. The EU Board is an excellent forum for such issues, and so are interpellation debates. I think Erik Andersson has received the answers he has asked for.
i-692664c87d3f1408-566	Mr President, I would like to I don't have much to add. I was trying to get an answer. I've got an answer, but I'm still worried. I can also say that in the moderate budget we are spending just as much – 3.25 billion. However, I have a message for the Minister for Housing, IT and Urban Development: if you are a government party, it is important that you take responsibility and that you do not come out with disinformation that concerns many people in Sweden. It could be working groups or other things. It is important to take responsibility and not go out with things that are not good for the country, quite simply.
i-692664c87d3f1408-568	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Erik Andersson, for the good advice!
i-692664c87d3f1408-569	Mr President, I would like to Mikael Oscarsson has asked me how I intend to prevent the decommissioning of a system that the Swedish Armed Forces will very likely need again within a few years. Mikael Oscarsson has also asked me whether I intend to take the initiative in transferring this radar system to the unit reserve. The single most important thing during the period of defence orientation is to increase the operational capability of the armed forces and to ensure the overall capability of the total defence. It is important that the Swedish Armed Forces focus on building the war units that are part of the war organization today. This is a priority that we have agreed in a broad political agreement – an agreement that the Christian Democrats have also endorsed. It is the Riksdag and the Government that decides on the overall design of the Swedish Armed Forces. On this basis, the Swedish Armed Forces determine the detailed design of the military units in order to meet the demands of the state authorities for operational military capabilities. The Swedish Armed Forces do not give priority to maintaining artillery fire control radar 740 (ArtE 740) as none of today's military units have the equipment in their organisation.
i-692664c87d3f1408-572	The ability of the 740 Artillery Fire Control radar is currently being handled by other systems in the Swedish Armed Forces with higher performance, which is why the need for the system no longer persists. Radar equipment will be stored and, if necessary, the system will be used as spare parts and replacement units for the Visby corvette radar PS201. The vehicles will fill a need in the telewar battalion when the required system vehicles are missing in the unit. A purchase of new vehicles for the telewar battalion had cost up to SEK 300 million and as a result would crowd out other material needs. In addition, maintenance of the equipment will incur costs for storage, which are estimated at SEK 5 – 10 million per year. As regards the need for sensors after the defence decision-making period, an investigation will be set up to review the Swedish Armed Forces' long-term material needs. The material investigation will be reported in 2018.
i-692664c87d3f1408-576	Mr President, I would like to The reason for this interpellation is a defence force letter called FM 2015-7003. It shows that the decommissioning of the state-of-the-art radar system ArtE 740 will continue. At the same time, we said in the Defence of Sweden – Stronger defence for an uncertain time that a coastal robot variant for placement on Gotland should be added. In order to restore the coastal robot to the Swedish Armed Forces, as suggested by the preparation, radar systems are required that are now under threat of decommissioning. We also said in the Defence Committee – and now I read before from p. 99 – that when acquiring new material, the material being replaced should not be decommissioned until new material is tied up in order to avoid a glitch in the operational capability. What, then, is this radar system we are talking about? It is a highly qualified radar and a command and control resource designed to be used as a sensor to create the necessary target positions for weapons intervention with, for example, coastal missile systems and artillery in the form of sea targets, such as Archer. It is a radar that is absolutely essential for these weapons to work – a very useful one. Then the question is: Is this system old and outdated? No, it is still a state-of-the-art system, which was developed at the same time as existing radar systems, which are currently on the Visby corvettes. Today, there are no mobile radar systems that are a newer generation than this particular system. Reasonably, the system should be used in peacetime within the maritime information battalion. It would create redundancy in peacetime in the event of temporary loss of the radar chain. In war and conflict, solid sensors would of course be considered as primary targets, so the mobile radar would have been an excellent resource when the fixed radar chain is not working. As I was familiar with before, we said in the Defence Committee that it is desirable that we get this coastal robot in place on Gotland. If it is to be in place to fight sea targets, it is more or less useless without a reconnaissance sensor, i.e. a radar, to create target modes. Radar was built and acquired for this very purpose. If any of the above systems are to be procured, we will now need to acquire a number of new radar systems as the existing one is to be decommissioned. Now that we are in Parliament and sitting on tax money, it is important to bear in mind that this is still a modern system, which has cost taxpayers over 600 million in the money value of the past. Dismantling a fully functioning system is, in my opinion, the destruction of capital. This has not been included in the Defence Committee; it is not something we have been informed about. This is something the Swedish Armed Forces have done on their own. However, this has now come to my attention, and it is therefore important to put the question of the radar system in the tough and critical situation we are in. We have a crisis, and the Baltic Sea is getting tougher and tougher. Then we need a radar system, which is why I want this to be discussed.
i-692664c87d3f1408-583	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Mikael Oscarsson for his comments. I can only say that the Defense Committee was led from the bourgeois side during the previous period of government. If it were to have been informed of this in this context, perhaps the initiative would have been taken elsewhere than mine. I can only say that this system is not tied up. It's not part of today's organization, just so we're clear. We have a system within the Swedish Armed Forces where we try to save as much as possible with resources and reuse equipment that is decommissioned. The idea of this part is that the radar equipment should be stored and used in spare parts and replacement units for the Visby corvette radar PS 201. The vehicles are to be used in the Telewar Battalion. If you do not, you can buy new vehicles that cost about SEK 300 million. It would, of course, squeeze other things out of the defence budget, and we would have to take it out of what we have now agreed in the defence-oriented decision. In that case, we need to discuss what is going to go away. My view is that we cannot afford to maintain and train material that is not part of the war organisation if it includes this kind of amount. I also want to look at this a little bit historically. After all, this system was leased by Australia and the United Kingdom to be used in Afghanistan, and in doing so the system was modified at a very high cost – about SEK 1 billion. So other materials were introduced into the system than the one we had in the first place. When the lease ended, they kept their equipment and put it on a system called UndE 23. We got the vehicles back with a mast on, basically. UndE 23 is a system that is currently used in our anti-aircraft units, and we can say very clearly that it is cheaper to buy a new and more modern radar system. That is the Swedish Armed Forces' assessment. A sensor study was recently carried out, which does not point out this system for future use, but advocates moving sensors and points to a need for more modern sensor technology. Therefore, in relation to the costs and level of technology, it is probably the assessment that the best thing is that this system is not used and is gradually being phased out and that we are investing in a new and more efficient system in the event that we are going to make that kind of investment. I would also like to say that this is an issue on which the Material Investigation, on which we have agreed in the defence-oriented decision, should review. It should be part of it. I think it is an appropriate forum to sort out how the money should be prioritised, among all other investments. This type of investment should then also be included.
i-692664c87d3f1408-591	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. I still think there's a reason to look at this more closely, given the tougher situation around the world. It has been a lot over the years, both under bourgeois governments and Social Democratic governments, that working equipment has been laid down, and the Armed Forces have done so. But now we are in a situation where we can no longer afford it and have the opportunity to do so, but must retain every possible ability. According to the information I have, there is a complete 2D system with antenna, operating system and communication system that can be used and is immediately usable. It could also develop into 3D systems, and then you would have to mount on antenna. Properly used, this could significantly increase the capability, both in the current war units if used within the marine information battalion and as an additional moving sensor for robot-supporting units such as fighter planes and ships. The Swedish Armed Forces' strained staff frameworks and finances have made the system under the so-called strategic timeout a priority. However, with reference to the threat picture and our new proximity focus, the need for mobile sensors, that is, exactly what this system has, has again increased significantly. To carry out experiments under FMV for ten years and then to dismantle a system of over 600 million is difficult to see as anything other than capital destruction. The answer also says that there are other abilities, but I wonder: What systems? The only mobile systems with corresponding capacity are radar systems on our five Visby corvettes and a handful of radar systems within the air defence. Some systems with better capacity than these two together with ArtE 740 exist as far as I don't know. To claim that the need does not exist when our numerary is already below a critical level is difficult to understand. It is also the case that if you take down this material to use as spare parts, you cannot use it again. Then it simply becomes a dismantling and something that cannot be used. In his reply, the Minister for Defence says that in the event of maintenance of the material, storage costs are added, which is estimated at SEK 5 – 10 million annually. My question is: how can renting a garage with dehumidification equipment for five vehicles cost 10 million a year? It seems very expensive, and I find it hard to see that that would really be the case. If we do nothing, this will be scrapped long before the planning that existed from the beginning, and then we will again have to develop a qualified mobile reconnaissance sensor if we are to have this heavy coastal robot. I think that would be an unnecessary cost.
i-692664c87d3f1408-600	Madam President, I would like Today, four systems have been dismantled and are on a pallet. There's been no maintenance in years. We have a system that is today intact but which is not part of any war unit or organisation. If we make the kind of change that Oscarsson proposes, it also means that we do not get what we had thought as spare parts and replacement units for Visby corvette radar. The vehicles that we are going to bring into the telewar battalion will not come about either. On the other hand, we will have an additional cost of 300 million in investment needs, which will have an impact on the defence budget in general. So we cannot afford to train and maintain non-war material. Oscarsson will have to accept that this is a material that in its full width is not full but requires a lot and also connects it with the material we got back from Australia and the UK, which are basically just vehicles with masts on. So a great deal of work remains to be done to make this work. I respect what the Swedish Armed Forces say in their sensor study, where this system is not identified as an alternative for future use and that we would rather buy a cheaper and more modern system. It may still be wise to try to spend the few money on something that is the most modern in a cheap amount. What we have within the Swedish Armed Forces is UNdE 23, which the Swedish Armed Forces have acquired and which is modified so that it can be connected into the sensor chain and send target data on both air targets and surface targets. This is something that is also linked to the anti-aircraft units that we have today. I may think that Oscarsson's ambition may be to consider it to be legitimate in this context, but these factual realities are something that we must also take a stand on and deal with. It is all connected in one whole, and I realise that we must have working systems in the future. Then I also think it is reasonable for the Materiel investigation to look over and take account of the fact that UNdE 23, which is also a system that can be used in this context, is already in place.
i-692664c87d3f1408-605	Madam President, I would like The basis for this interpellation is, firstly, that we have a tougher world situation and that we need to build up everything we can. Secondly, we have said that we want heavy coastal missiles in the future. Then it has come to my attention that there is a system on which we have invested 600 million and which, according to my information, could still be used. We can look up after exactly what's going on with it. If we then have heavy coastal missiles in the future, which we need in order to defend Sweden, we need this, because this is radar systems that can be used both on land and on the surface. It's connected. A heavy coastal robot is made up of cannons, but something is needed to shoot at. In favourable weather conditions, the radar system can be used for a range of 100 kilometres. It is not a bad system, but it is also used in other parts of the world. I think there may be a reason to look at this extra time if there is any way to use the system in a better way than simply using spare parts, that is, slaughtering and making it unusable. We need to build redundancy into the system. This could be a piece of the puzzle for this. There is reason to look again at whether there is any better way to use the system than to scrap it with regard to spent money and that there is a need for redundancy. Radar will be needed if we are to use heavy coastal missiles in the future, even if we are to use Archer for sea targets. Let's look at this one more time.
i-692664c87d3f1408-609	Madam President, I would like I note that the system is not in the armed forces. If we do not do the decommissioning now, it directly affects the cost picture in the Swedish Armed Forces with large amounts of money. They are vehicles that do not go to the telewar battalion as planned, and we do not get the spare parts and replacement units for the Visby corvettes either. There were considerable sums of money that Australia and Britain had to put in to modify the system to make it modern. I have a statement that SEK 1 billion has been put in. What we got back was vehicles. The equipment was used in another context at UNdE 23 – a system that they use and which we also have in the air defence. So they kept their sensor and management systems. These are the facts, which I think I should still share. What is the best use of the money? I think it is better to invest in buying something more modern and cheaper so that we get more for the money than going in with large sums in this context. Don't forget that a system is intact and four are dismantled on a pallet. There's been no maintenance in years. That's the point of departure. It may be that the tasks that Oscarsson has taken part in have not all been based on exactly what it looks like and the history behind the present situation. Often when you get this type of data, you don't know the full width. We can come back to that in another context.
i-692664c87d3f1408-614	Madam President, I would like Stig Henriksson has asked me what the budgetary consequences for the Swedish Armed Forces would be if all vacancies were filled. The defence goes from an intervention defence to a defence that is more clearly directed towards the national defence dimension. The single most important objective of the upcoming defence-oriented period 2016 to 2020 is to increase the operational capability of the armed forces and the overall operational capability of the total defence. The government has noted that there are challenges in the staff supply system that lead to a continued need for reform. The Swedish Armed Forces' documentation for the Government's proposal Defence Policy Focus – Sweden's Defence 2016 – 2020 indicates that there are significant challenges and uncertainties regarding the possibilities to fully staff the armed forces with employed personnel even after the defence-oriented period. The Government attaches importance to continuing efforts to recruit and retain staff of all categories of staff. However, while continued efforts are being made to recruit and retain women and men in all categories of personnel, the government estimates that the dependence on non-employed military-placed total defence personnel in some of the armed forces will remain. The Government decided on 1 October 2015 to set up an investigation tasked with proposing a long-term sustainable human resources supply of the military defence, which continues to be based mainly on voluntary activity, but where increased use of the total defence obligation complements voluntary activity when the needs of the war organisation cannot be secured solely through voluntary recruitment. In addition, the investigation will also propose, among other things, how an increased volume of personnel in the war organization can be achieved, should such a need arise with regard to Sweden's defence preparedness. The investigation will describe both the socio-economic consequences as well as the consequences for the Swedish Armed Forces and other relevant authorities. The investigation shall report on its mission by 30 September 2016.
i-692664c87d3f1408-619	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister of Defence. But what answer is that? Now I'm not even trying to be funny. It's too late for that. I have asked for the budgetary implications of the fact that 6 000 of the 28 000 posts of the professional army were vacant at the end of the previous year. In addition, I have asked whether the 7 000 posts which were staffed by conscripts during phase-out affect the envisaged cost picture. If I may be ofin and quote myself, the interpellation ends with this description. I would point out that there may not be too dramatic consequences in terms of the budget, since most vacancies are too sometimes in office, but of course it is of interest to know. Of course, the cost varies according to whether it is at times or on a continuous basis, how much they are called into service and exactly which posts of those who are vacant on a continuous basis. It should not be an insurmountable task to indicate an approximate average cost for each category. This followed the question, with which the Minister for Defence began his answer but did not return to: But on this I did not actually hear a word in the answer.
i-692664c87d3f1408-624	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Armed Forces' budget, adopted by the Riksdag, is based exactly on the planning of K-soldiers and T-soldiers. If all the services were to be filled, there would be coverage within the framework of what the Riksdag has decided. The budget is based only on the planned volume of staff on the basis of a parliamentary decision. Then it was a question of how the situation should be deepened in a long-term perspective to solve the problems within the Armed Forces, i.e. the balance in recruiting periodically employed soldiers and keeping K-soldiers. Changes in the system in order to achieve a better filling rate will be highlighted in the study that Annika Nordgren Christensen will carry out. Then we will try whether the Norwegian and Danish models in any sense can help to improve the situation, i.e. a combination of staff with a professional base and staff who have a modern military service as a base – a parallel system. It would be a way of stabilising the situation and, in the long run, creating war units that can be fully demanded and operated, which cannot happen today. The investigation will also analyse the socio-economic consequences and consequences for the Swedish Armed Forces. It is then a question of the economy in this context. We believe that the 2009 decision to phase out military service is unfortunate. Now we need to find a new balance between volunteering and duty. That's what it's all about. What happens in the short term and is financed within the framework of the defence budget and the appropriation that we have for exercise activities is that we activate the duty and will carry out the first rehearsal exercises. It will happen in Skövde and Boden. We've called in personnel to the 193rd Hunt Battalion - 100 conscripts week 50 and 51. We've called in 150 conscripts for 14 days weeks 48 and 49. To the second amphibious battalion comes 100 conscripts, to F 21 comes 16, to the Management Regiment comes 18 and to the Träng Regiment comes 30. So it's 524 we've called in so far. We also have a number who have applied for a postponement. What we are trying to do now is to implement within the economic framework set by the Riksdag the changes necessary to increase the military capabilities of the armed forces and to seek the possibility of a better stability. There is this investigation, which will provide clear answers to all questions about the economy, also some.
i-692664c87d3f1408-630	Madam President, I would like It is of course great that there is coverage within the framework – if you had managed to recruit according to the plan. But it should reasonably generate a rather large surplus that it has not been achieved. If it does not, you can think about what would happen if the recruitment was complete according to the plan. I think the measures mentioned by the Minister for Defence are good measures. That's a good approach to the investigation. Although we would like to see a somewhat broader approach, that is a good thing. Otherwise, it is also good and wise, what the Minister says in the interpellation response about the aim of the early summer defence decision: that there are challenges in the staff supply system – perhaps something of a sub-state – and that it is a matter of recruiting but perhaps above all of retaining staff. The investigation will look at the Danish and Norwegian models and a mix of professional army and military service. We hope that it can be broadened a little. We are well in agreement that the 2009 decision to suspend military service was unfortunate. In brackets, I can reproduce the Left Party's view of military service in the Party Movement: We want all men and women in Sweden to sign up and for everyone who is suitable to carry out a shorter military basic education. A future duty law will provide the opportunity for both military and civilian service. For those who then wish, there should be a voluntary opportunity to continue their military service and specialise in the different parts of the Armed Forces. ..................................................... All this is well and good, but my question of interpellation was, after all, another. What would be the budgetary consequences for the Swedish Armed Forces if all vacancies were filled?
i-692664c87d3f1408-636	Madam President, I would like What we are now planning for and developing – which we seem to agree on, even though Henriksson describes that he has a little more ambition in terms of staff supply – is a change in the entire staff supply system that brings us back to the task. Once we have done the whole of this investigation, we will also be able to highlight all the aspects that Henriksson gives on the budgetary implications of different kinds of things when it comes to how a duty organisation will draw money, how much it will cost in practice, what it will cost with continued professional defence and what that balance looks like. I believe that this is the best way to get the issue to the bottom. It is clear that you can stand here and have different opinions about the incisions and about one and the other, but our view is that now we will do this properly and get to the bottom of all the economy in the context. Based on this, we will also find a good platform for how we act further. The Swedish Armed Forces is a large organization and a slow-moving organisation to change. You have to do it in a systematic and thought-out way so that you do not create a worrying situation where there are major flaws. That's what we're experiencing now. We have, among other things, a staff supply system that was not from scratch fully and fully thought out. There was a long line of factors where it broke. It was about the link with general agreements and regulations, it was about financial assessments, it was about recruitment conditions and it was about the ability to retain staff. When personnel drop out, this means, of course, an increase for the Swedish Armed Forces. If you quit after four years and it was supposed to be there for six to eight years, then the Armed Forces will have an additional cost that it will have to consider with immediate effect. Recruitment and training must take place. This should, if you reason as Henriksson, be put in parity with how it strikes against the personnel who are war-placed but not war-arms-sealed. What we are doing now is to increase the cost of the non-war unit-executed but war-placed military service personnel. We raise it by now activating the war unit exercises. So we are increasing that cost. There are many parameters in these calculation models. However, the requirement that we have from the Government at the Swedish Armed Forces is that it remains within the financial framework established here in a cost-effective manner. Our investigation is part of getting to the bottom of the economy, including what Henriksson wants. Then, from an economic point of view, we can also highlight the advantages and disadvantages of different types of systems. Then we have a more complete and thorough material to consider. The investigation has now been given a year, so we should not have to wait so terribly long for all the answers. From the government's side, we are also keen to be able to quickly effect these intentions.
i-692664c87d3f1408-646	Madam President, I would like I fully agree that the big problem is not that the Swedish Armed Forces are recruiting too badly, but that the dropout is on average a little too early. But it is actually a more difficult problem to solve. Otherwise, one could imagine that a few more booming advertising campaigns could tighten up recruitment. But if you recruit on a fairly normal scale and then get a drop-off, then that's a more difficult problem. I think the investigation has a good ambition. I'd like to broaden it a little, but it's good that it's going pretty fast. Activating war unit exercises is great. However, it should be made clear that when you start practicing, the costs will not be taken as long as you practice much less. I usually think this way: I took up office as Chairman of the Municipal Executive Board on 1 January 1999. It was then described that we had a big and acute problem with an economy in breakdown and a future huge problem with recruiting staff. I tried to comfort myself and others by saying that it was really just a problem. If we have no money, we do not need to worry that we cannot recruit staff, because we would still not be able to afford to hire them. On the other hand, if we do not get staff, we will at least be able to meet the budget. ..................................................... I am a little worried that the Swedish Armed Forces' way of managing the budget may have to do with the fact that there are so many vacancies. It is a saving, and it is also much less practiced. I hope it's not like that.
i-692664c87d3f1408-652	Madam President, I would like Exercise activities are now increasing quite substantially. After all, we have allocated considerably greater funds to this particular activity. We have spent an extra 1 billion on that part of the project. This means that all units will be trained by 2020. We have now also activated the instrument of military unit exercise, that part of the law of duty. The ambition for practice activities is much higher now than before. If there is anything we follow, it is precisely that part of the Armed Forces. I plan to go up to Arvidsjaur myself and participate in the first war unit exercise that is now being conducted. It will be very interesting to see how it comes out. I usually visit various types of exercises within the Swedish Armed Forces and also the activities on the exercise side that take place within the framework of the Home Guard. Each exercise must be put into a broader perspective. It is not just about what the individual training soldiers are doing, it is also about what it gives for security policy signals in a broader perspective. Then every exercise becomes very important. I regard the war unit exercises and the increased ambition we have today in the exercise activities as also part of a security policy signal work. It will then be added together with all the exercises that take place in larger and smaller formats in our neighbouring countries and also with the exercises we are conducting together with our neighbours, within the framework of the NATO partnership and other entities in which we participate. We therefore have a common ambition that the exercise activities are important in order to increase military capabilities.
i-692664c87d3f1408-658	Madam President, I would like Rickard Nordin has asked me what I will do to give e-sports the same conditions as other sports to be able to start education at upper secondary level. I would like to dwell on what e-sports really is at the outset. E-sport is an abbreviation of electronic sport and a collective name for organized competitions performed on computers. The contestants play different kinds of computer and video games against each other. Many of the games are team games. Competitions are held at local, regional, national and international level. For the skilled players there is the possibility of very high prize money, including due to sponsors from the gaming industry. For me, it is important that all students should be able to develop and receive stimulation in upper secondary school. Upper secondary school should be available for all students. For students who are skilled in sport, there is today the opportunity to combine upper secondary education with sports training aimed at developing an international elite. It is the Swedish National Board of Education that decides where elite sports educations may be organised on a proposal from the Swedish National Sports Federation or approval by a special sports association. I am convinced that this application procedure will benefit the quality of education and training. The Swedish Sports Federation is a Swedish sports collecting organisation that will support, lead and represent sport. According to the association's statutes, sport is physical activity that we perform in order to have fun, feel good and perform more. On the Federation website you can read about the social benefits of sport and how regular exercise promotes health. The National Sports Federation has 71 independent affiliates. E-sport is not connected to a federation that in turn is part of the Swedish Sports Federation. The Swedish National Agency for Education's assessment is therefore that e-sports is not currently considered a sport, so elite sports education in upper secondary school cannot focus on e-sports. However, this does not mean that computer games do not belong in school. On the contrary, I see a great potential in using computer games to develop the knowledge, abilities and values of students, and I also see it as an educational tool for teachers. There are also high expectations that the school will provide students with good digital skills. The Government has therefore commissioned the Swedish National Agency for Education to propose national IT strategies for the school system. In the case of upper secondary and adult education, the Swedish National Agency for Education's proposal should include, among other things, the possibility of stimulating students' curiosity, creativity and other entrepreneurial skills that are demanded in working life and that facilitate further studies. The Government has also commissioned a special investigator to propose, if necessary, how the national programme of upper secondary school can be continuously adapted to changes in the labour market and society (dir. 2015:31). The assignment shall be reported by 30 June 2016. I want to wait and see what the investigation comes up with before I work for the government to propose some major changes in the field of upper secondary school, but I am convinced that digital knowledge and competences will play an important role in the upper secondary school of the future.
i-692664c87d3f1408-665	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Unfortunately, the answer shows the Minister's incomprehension about what e-sports is and what opportunities there are. At a detailed level, e-sport is about far more than just playing on computers. Comparing computer gaming in learning and IT strategies in school with e-sports is a bit like comparing geography in school with orientation gymnasies. These are completely different things we are talking about. It is worrying that the government is making its assessments based on what the Swedish National Agency for Education thinks about what an independent organisation has for rules and guidelines for who can be members of it. It is an organisation that we cannot demand political responsibility from. It is an organization that can fully set its own rules. In addition to the lack of political influence, there is a self-interest in keeping other and new members out of it, since it distributes government contributions to the members you have, and bringing in more members is of course not interesting. How democratic does the Minister actually think that system is? Since the Minister is basing his answers on that organisation, I assume that the Minister is prepared to take responsibility for the rules that exist. Or is the Minister prepared to change the rules? Let me give you an example. For example, in order to be a member, you need to have a structure consisting of a local, a regional and a national organisation. The e-sport doesn't work that way. As a player you can have both teammates and opponents in Stockholm, Sydney, Singapore and Seoul at the same time. You don't have to act in your local arena. You're a lot bigger than that. To bureaucracy something for the sake of bureaucracy, something that actually works, feels completely wrong and completely outdated, especially as e-sport helps people to bridge borders, which we definitely need in these times. As the Minister says, sport is about physical activity. I'll sign that. That is not the question. These are equivalent training courses for different types of sports, including e-sports. The Minister refers to physical activity. Does the Minister then agree that those criteria should also apply to those who want to start a dart school, which is now part of the Swedish Sports Federation? It is a sport that is about concentration and which requires good basic physics in order to be able to practice. The same applies to e-sports. In e-sport you should make about 500 decisions per minute and act on maybe half of them. To do this requires that you are alert both physically and mentally. The same can be said of sports such as boule and warp, which also exist. In car sports, you largely use simulators to test cars and tracks, perhaps much more than you actually drive at the big races. What, then, is the difference, according to the Minister, between e-sport and other sports practised in this way? It would be interesting to hear what the Minister thinks of the contradictions that I wanted to highlight and whether the Minister is interested in doing something about it in order to enable e-sports to become a secondary education on equal terms.
i-692664c87d3f1408-674	Madam President, I would like Thank you, once again, Rickard Nordin! It is important to emphasise that the digitalisation of schools in various forms is welcomed by the government. It can get different expressions, among other things by having a national strategy for how to use educational tools that make the school more IT-adapted. But it can also be about individual upper secondary schools and programs that in one way or another have a digital expression, e.g. e-sport. I am in favour of the phenomenon and form itself and I am happy to encourage this type of activity, but I still want to stick to the current regulations and the quality requirements that we have. In fact, there is a regulatory framework for how different gymnasiums and programmes are to be set up. It's a legal system. It is also a system to promote quality. We can work on this issue within that framework. I trust the assessment made by the National Sports Federation and the Swedish National Agency for Education. However, I do not think it feels really good when there are accusations that the National Sports Federation has hidden intentions or dark interests. It is a bit strong to assert such things and accuse organizations without having any evidence of it. I trust that they are doing a proper and legally secure job, and I want to follow the rules that exist, quite simply. Again: I am in favour of the phenomenon itself and really want to encourage digital expression in school in every way.
i-692664c87d3f1408-679	Madam President, I would like I understand that the Government wants to stick to the rules. But when the regulations are not adapted to reality and do not work in today's society with the peoples' movement that e-sports is actually – not a The government also says it's legally secure. The problem is that if I do not agree with a decision made by the Swedish Sports Federation, how can I get it over-tested? Who do I turn to to claim responsibility? Which court do I turn to? Which politician do I turn to, to which I can vote away in the next election? That would be interesting to hear. I am not saying that the Swedish Sports Federation makes an incorrect assessment on the basis of its statutes and foundations, but perhaps politics should make its own assessment of what is appropriate to have as upper secondary education and not. The Government's response also speaks of developing an international elite. Then I'll let the government know that just a few days ago we got a world champion in Hearthstone. We have elite teams in the League of Legends, Counterstrike, Starcraft and more. Many of the international world stars are Swedes, but yet there is no possibility! I also promise that they earn considerably more than 99% of those who have ever attended a sports gymnasium in Sweden. One can think about what is reasonable to have as upper secondary school education and not. The finals of these events fill entire arenas. They have considerably more viewers on TV than, for example, the floorball World Cup had, which went here in Sweden not so long ago. Then we can compare what we provide for support for that sport in terms of education and what we give to the e-sport. It should be said that there are e-sports gymnasies today. They are available as extended course. But they do not have the same opportunity to pursue a good and quality-assured education, because you do not get as much time and support as other sports get in the upper secondary education available. I find that very boring. I will come back to my question. Will the Minister be prepared, when an investigation comes, to also test whether e-sports will have the same opportunities as other sports to actually start training? I am also very curious to hear whether I can in any way have the decision made by the Swedish Sports Federation reconsidered on the basis of its rules if I feel that this is not true, and who should I call to account for a legal test?
i-692664c87d3f1408-686	Madam President, I would like Thank you again, Rickard Nordin! I'll start by making you happy. Looking into the future, I will say that I am willing to review how this system works and to be responsive to new developments. I think that we should have an education system that reflects both the changing working life and civil society, as well as sport and sport, however it manifests itself. However, what I am referring to is the regulatory framework we have here and now. I think we should follow it. I don't think we should deviate from applicable law. When it comes to the issue of appeals, we will follow the administrative law that applies and the regulations that apply to the Swedish National Agency for Education. I understand there's a damp need here. What I can say here in the speaker's chair is that I take the question with me to the department and look at it all and I would be happy to have a further dialogue with Rickard Nordin on this. He points to something very interesting that I think we have reason to look further at.
i-692664c87d3f1408-689	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for that opening! I will definitely follow the matter and look forward to the deliberations to which I am expected to be invited. Of course we should follow the rules that exist. That's why we have regulations. But when those regulations do not work, perhaps it is time to review them and change them so that they reflect the reality in which we live. It sounds very good that the government is prepared to review it. I will be the first in line to press so that the e-sport can also receive the upper secondary education to which you are entitled, in my opinion. There's an incredible amount of commitment here. These are people who often don't get involved elsewhere, but here they get involved. They're coaches and leaders. We have an incredible potential to create role models on the network that exists. There we have many times problems reaching out. But here we can bring in adults who are involved in a completely different way, and we can get very good out of this. This is not just about people sitting at home playing, but there is an incredible social commitment. Many have much of their acquaintances in this popular movement, and then we have to take care of it. Politics must not be rigid and boring and simply play by the old rules of the game, but we must adapt to reality. I look forward to the government doing this through the opening provided by the High School Minister here. I'm very happy about that.
i-692664c87d3f1408-694	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Rickard. I don't know if it was an expression of your Gothenburg humor that you were talking about following the rules. At least it was a lot of fun. I would like to thank you once again for the interpellation. You highlight an important question. It's important to me, too. I knew this phenomenon before, but I will readily admit that it was certainly not in the deeper way that I have now gained understanding of the question of your interpellation. You've definitely raised an important question. What I refer to is the current legislation and regulations. Of course, I respect what the National Board of Education and the National Sports Federation say, but I think it is important that we in school reflect the development that exists in different places. I am willing to engage in a further dialogue with you on this in order for us to see what can or cannot be done, at least so that we get to grips with the issue.
i-692664c87d3f1408-697	Madam President, I would like Michael Svensson has asked me what reforms I intend to initiate in order for more students in vocational programmes in upper secondary school to reach an approved final grade. I would like to start by saying that Michael Svensson's interest in more graduates from the upper secondary school's professional programme is a pleasure to me. For more people to choose professional programmes and for more young people to complete upper secondary education is a priority in the government's policy for upper secondary school. Everything starts with a good teacher, and the teachers are central to making more people pass upper secondary school. The government is now implementing several measures to strengthen teachers' skills and make the teaching profession more attractive. In the 2016 budget bill (prop. 2015/ 16:1), the Government proposes that the initiatives Teacher Lift II and Mathematics Lift be extended. In addition, the Government proposes to step up the investment in qualification training for unauthorised vocational teachers, as a large proportion of teachers teaching in upper secondary school vocational programmes are not qualified. The government also intends to come back to the question of whether, in the long term, vocational teachers should be fully covered by the requirement of teacher identification. The government is also making efforts to improve the quality of professional programmes. Among other things, the budget proposal for 2016 proposes efforts to improve the quality of workplace-based learning, and the commission to the Swedish Agency for Education to carry out supervision training should be extended. Students' right to special support is clearly expressed in the School Act (2010:800). However, the State's school inspection has observed in its supervision that the principals have many shortcomings in the area of specific support. I believe it is serious that students do not receive the support to which they are entitled. An early step taken by the government when it took office was to set up a secondary school inquiry. The study will, inter alia, review the provisions on support measures in upper secondary school and consider possibilities for specific adjustments to upper secondary school education. The study will also propose measures to strengthen young people's ability and motivation to complete upper secondary education (Dir. 2015:31). The assignment shall be reported by 30 June 2016. The government is also making other efforts to enable more people to complete upper secondary education. Among other things, the government in the 2016 budget bill proposes that student health should be strengthened and developed. In its quality review of efforts to prevent interruptions from professional programmes, the School Inspectorate has highlighted the importance of well-functioning pupil health. The Government's initiative includes, among other things, staff enhancements in student health, and the initiative must be coordinated with the Government's efforts to strengthen access to teachers with special pedagogic competence. Finally, I would like to mention that the Government has commissioned the Swedish National Agency for Education to develop and implement national school development programmes aimed at principals and schools. Actions shall consist of various skills development and support actions. The actions shall, inter alia, aim to support teachers and other staff in providing pupils in need of special support with the support they need. Overall, I note that the government is making a wide range of efforts to improve throughput in upper secondary school.
i-692664c87d3f1408-705	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking the Government for its answer. We all have an interest in raising vocational education and training in Sweden. I think we can find several points of contact where we can achieve good results. If we are to be honest, we can say that vocational training has been treated rather rigidly for a great many years almost regardless – I must be willing to admit it – who has been in government. We can go back a little bit. One could say that the big drop-out in upper secondary school began when the two-year vocational school in the early 1990s was three years old. Then we noticed a certain trend in 2008, when the search pressure decreased. Since I like honesty in politics, I can say that it seems that this trend has been reinforced by the new upper secondary school. Of course we have to do something about it, because it is very serious. Now there is the same picture and trend in several countries, but it is a small consolation for the Swedish students who may choose wrong. Some of this is unfortunately due to a political agenda and, in some cases, to quite a few misunderstandings. After the introduction of Gy in 2011, it was actually Members of this House who quite seriously claimed that the professional programmes were a dead end. I have heard several SYVs, not least in high schools with very practical education, who have really believed that the professional programmes cannot lead further and that there is no possibility of entering basic university qualifications. Here we come, you might say, to a key issue. The Social Democrats have, I think, for quite a number of years perhaps devalued the ordinary work, which is just being done by workers and craftsmen who do not have an academic degree. There is perhaps a slight difference in how we view different professions and professional programmes. I mean, but I'm going to ask to get back to that, that we shouldn't have an A-team and a B-team in high school. Is everyone going to be an academic? No, I don't think everyone should become an academic. Not everyone wants that. Some may lack opportunities or interest in further reading. However, it is very important, I think, that all roads are kept open and that there are great opportunities to supplement and to change course later in life and take courses that you did not have time with or wanted to read earlier. I think that will be even more important in the future. Today, our knowledge of all the new professions that will exist in 20 years' time is rather small. Similarly, many of today's professions will not exist in 20 years' time. In fact, in some sectors, although I was strongly questioned at a Saco conference when I argued this, one can talk about a certain amount of over-training. There are many companies and industries today that do not always need a civil engineer but can be satisfied with an engineer or a high school engineer. But then, of course, we come back to the question: how are we going to get more people to join the professional programmes? I have several thoughts. I believe, among other things, that study and career counselors come in here. They have a very important role to play – we will come back to this in another interpellation debate. It is about better information and a general change of attitude with regard to professional programmes. I will come back to more on this in a moment.
i-692664c87d3f1408-713	Madam President, I would like Thank you, once again, Michael Svensson! I am pleased that we share the same enthusiasm for professional programmes and vocational training. I am pleased that the Moderates have in a way changed hands on the issue and choose to focus on these important programs. We know that they are important for students to get jobs easily but also for the labour market to have a good supply of skills. I regret, however, that over the last eight years we have seen how the previous government has stigmatised professional programmes in many ways. In many cases, it has seemed that the programmes are a separate option for some rather than a main option for all. We know that the labour market is screaming for skills from these programs. I regularly meet industry representatives who say: Train more so that we can hire them! In the same way, it is in terms of welfare. The same is true of trade and several others. Vocational programmes are in many ways an important means of matching the labour market. At least I am glad that we can now find each other on these issues. I hope that, above all, we can talk about the status of professional programmes and start talking about why they are important for Sweden of the future. Swedish professionalism is perhaps the basis for our success in our exports. We can sell goods and services all over the world and be world famous for it. We have very sharp minds. They're the best and the brightest. We also have very skilled people who can produce goods and services, which is good for the whole of our country, for our entire economy and therefore for our welfare. Thank you, once again, Michael Svensson!
i-692664c87d3f1408-717	Madam President, I would like Now we are discussing upper secondary school, but of course everything starts considerably earlier. In addition, I happen to be in the reference group of the Gymnasie investigation. There we are, of course, limited, because there we are not allowed to talk about comprehensive school and how high school should be able to supply more skilled students and achieve the goal that everyone should be eligible for the national programmes in upper secondary school. There are, of course, problems. But we can solve them in another forum. I believe that we need to step up cooperation between upper secondary school programmes – for example, the commercial and economic programmes and perhaps the technical and industrial programmes – that is, between the higher education programmes and the purely professional programmes, also with a view to reducing the difference between the vocational programmes and the preparatory programmes for higher education. In fact, I also think that we should perhaps increase the requirements for the admission of those who want to join the professional programmes, so that they have the same requirements as they have today when they are admitted to the university preparatory programmes. However, I do not believe in lowering any requirements at all. As far as I understand today, about 800 students could be affected by such a change. I hope, of course, that it can be resolved. At least there are far fewer students than I thought before. I believe that this is also a way of raising interest in professional programmes and making sure that everyone understands that we do not have any A and B teams in upper secondary school. I also believe that the social partners must enter much more actively into upper secondary school. It can be about anything from professional college to industry-certified programs and schools. There is also a very important role to be played by study and career guidance officers. We'll get back to that later. Then we can consider whether this authority will help. I have the opportunity to record a part of the Gymnasie investigation, so to speak, but I also think it is important to feel the Government on the pulse. Does the Government really seriously believe that compulsory university qualifications for everyone will help, among other things, the 15 percent of students who are the longest from a miraged degree? Instead, you may have to go through motivation and facilitate and schedule in a completely different way. Once again, it is also a question of good study and career counselors, even if we should not burden that profession too much.
i-692664c87d3f1408-725	Madam President, I would like I thank Michael Svensson for this. I can basically sign everything he said here. I feel that the conflict line that may exist may be about university qualifications. I have stated in previous contexts that it is important that individual students, and in this case students who choose professional programmes, should be employable throughout life. Then they must be able to requalify themselves in a world where the rate of change will be ever higher. The economy will change in such a way that it is expected that my generation will have to change jobs at least ten times in its lifetime. Then it is not just in the same sector, but between different sectors and different sectors. This means that jobs will come and jobs will disappear. Then you have to be able to requalify yourself in order to be able to take the new jobs that come. That is how a modern economy works, and that is why we need to enable even professional students to take the step into other educations once they need it. But I don't want to be absolutistic. I would like freedom of choice. I believe that we can reverse today's norm and reasoning, where we have to opt for higher education qualifications, so that, as an individual student, we can opt out of these subjects if we really do not want to read them. That's one thing. I will also answer the question of compulsory high school. It is an issue that I really think has a less conflictal character. I am well aware that my party went to elections on this. We believe that everyone should get through high school because it is so important for the establishment of the labour market. But I also realise what the parliamentary situation is, and there are other things that we need to start working on instead of everyone getting through their schooling. Among other things, it is about more people getting better education in high school, that we need more teachers and that they will get better opportunities. This is what lays a good foundation for all schools to be good schools and for all students to manage their schooling.
i-692664c87d3f1408-729	Madam President, I would like It may be even more stigmatising to opt out of something than to choose for something. But it is possible that we may have to think more about it. I think you also have to think about the number of points in high school today – 2,500 points. After all, there is a lot of air in the system. But it is also, of course, about money and resources in the municipalities. I think it could very well work if most students read more than 2,500 points. Let's say that a student should enter the university qualification within their 2,500 points. This means that a number of points must be taken from the professions. But there are many industries that scream and say that one absolutely must not do so, because the craftsmen who then come out will be useless and inadequate. I have a completely different and radical idea – even Moderates can be radical – about perhaps organising the professional programme in a completely different way. But it could be a cliffhanger for the next call.
i-692664c87d3f1408-733	Madam President, I would like I thank Michael Svensson for a good debate. I think, as I said, that we agree with each other on most of the professional programmes, which is a good thing. We need reforms for the Swedish school that is stable and long-term and that lasts over time, where both students and teachers know the conditions that apply. Many teachers themselves have signalled that they need peace of mind, but that does not mean that we should not reform where necessary. I believe that during this debate we have managed to point out a lot of things that need to be addressed. I look forward to continuing this conversation in other contexts.
i-692664c87d3f1408-735	Madam President, I would like Michael Svensson has asked me what initiatives I intend to take to reduce the number of classes cancelled in upper secondary school. Of course, an cancelled lesson is a problem whatever it is, and especially for those students who have a great need for support in their studies. Many cancelled lessons can even affect students' ability to complete their upper secondary education. The government's starting point is that the students should have a qualified teacher who leads each class. Pupils in upper secondary school have a statutory right to a certain guaranteed teaching time for a whole national programme. Students in pre-graduate programmes are entitled to at least 2 180 teaching hours, and students in vocational programmes are entitled to at least 2 430 teaching hours. It is not in detail how these hours are to be allocated. It is the head of an upper secondary school education who is responsible for scheduling the teaching so that all students have the opportunity to have the guaranteed teaching time. The State School Inspectorate's mission includes, among other things, monitoring the compliance of the principals with their obligations. On 19 March 2015, the Government appointed an investigation (i.e. 2015:31) which will, inter alia, analyse and propose measures for all young people to complete upper secondary education. The study will also review provisions on support measures in upper secondary school, which can contribute to more pupils completing their studies. The assignment shall be reported by 30 June 2016. The Government has also decided on a number of initiatives to improve the status of the teaching profession and for more people to choose to remain in the profession. Among other things, investments in skills development aimed at more qualified teachers as well as investments in better teacher salaries and career positions for teachers have been implemented. It is hoped that the availability of qualified teachers will be greater and better able to meet the needs of schools both in the case of regular teachers and teachers. Competent teachers also have better pedagogical skills to plan their teaching.
i-692664c87d3f1408-739	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. Of course, this is not primarily a state responsibility. However, the Swedish Parliament has the ultimate responsibility for the legislation and the government, which governs and will ensure that things are complied with. Upper secondary school is struggling with several problems today, as we have talked about in the past. To this we are now going to add a lot of cancelled lessons. I myself have two children in second and third grade, so I'm quite aware of what air is in the system. This is not just about Falkenberg. There are no substitutes available, and then the classes are cancelled. Although it is the subject of a completely different debate, I also believe that today's high-quality course gymnasium contributes to a great deal of air in the system. If we add that many lessons are cancelled because there is no substitute available when the teacher may be ill or going to something else that is considered important, there will be a big problem. Of course, this results in the poor and unmotivated students having even more difficulty coping with their upper secondary school. Unfortunately, it is probably the case that many municipalities simply cut into the budget for the school and not least for the upper secondary school. As I said, although we have a municipal school, the ultimate responsibility lies with the government to ensure that all students receive a good education. We set the goals and decide on the curricula.
i-692664c87d3f1408-744	Madam President, I would like Interpellation highlights an important problem. There are far too many lessons cancelled, and we know that it will be reflected in students' knowledge in the future. It is therefore a major concern. We also know that the problem is based on a lack of teachers. Unfortunately, it has existed for many years and is expected to become even more serious in the future. It is expected that 65 000 teachers will be missing by 2020, which is a very high figure. At the same time, teacher education is actually the largest education at the university. What the government is now doing to tackle the problem is first and foremost investing in making the teaching profession more attractive. More people need to apply for teacher training. We do this, among other things, by raising teachers' salaries. We are also dimensioning teacher training, that is to say, creating more places so that we can simply train more teachers. We also offer more people a supplementary education, that is to say, more professions offer an opportunity to retrain and become teachers. There can really be two wins in one if we manage to get more teachers. Combining their prior knowledge and experience can actually strengthen the skills base at school. This is therefore a serious problem, and I would like us to join forces across the block to address the problem. Nevertheless, I would like to say that the government has begun an important reform effort to tackle the problem.
i-692664c87d3f1408-747	Madam President, I would like We have a joint responsibility for the Swedish school. It is divided between the municipality and the state. The OECD has shown, not least in the spring, that accountability is difficult because it is difficult to know who the responsibility is. No one really knows who has the ultimate responsibility for the students in the Swedish school. Is it the minister, the councilman, the principal or the teacher? Who could it be? I believe that we must have a clearer division of roles, greater national responsibility for the Swedish school and a clearer division of responsibilities. Some of the problem I raise and where the Government shares my analysis is, of course, based on the lack of teachers. It's A and O that we get more teachers, and here I think there's a lot to do. Of course, more people need to go to teacher training, and they need to be made more popular. I think there is a lot missing in many teacher training courses around Sweden today. I also believe, although this does not affect the problem of cancelled lessons, that the state should carry out a major training effort in the leadership of teachers. I think that would help a great deal in this regard. Perhaps we also need to review the hourly plan. Although I believe in freedom, we may not be able to allow any freedom, because all municipalities and schools simply do not behave as we thought when we rigged the Swedish school.
i-692664c87d3f1408-750	Madam President, I would like I share Michael Svensson's view that we must do everything we can to increase equivalence in Swedish schools. Nothing else is accepted except that all schools are good schools and that all students receive a good education. As Michael Svensson points out, I believe that part of the problem is that the management chain in the Swedish school is not working properly. That is why the government has given the School Commission the task of working on the issue. The school commission consists of some of the leading school experts in both Sweden and the world, as well as other representatives, and we are working to get to grips with the issue. However, there is another dimension of the chain of governance that I think we need to discuss in this context. It is not just a question of whether it is the state, the municipalities, the headmaster or the teacher who governs – even if we have to deal with it – but also of the issue of the liberalisation of schools. It is relevant in this context. We know that there are unfortunately examples of schools where costs are reduced for various reasons, unfortunately sometimes to make money. This means that schools are without teachers, and if you don't have a teacher, it will be teacherless lessons. The teacher may be replaced by computers, or the lessons will be cancelled at worst. This is a serious defect in the Swedish school system that we need to address. The problem of strength thus manifests itself both in the form of horizontal problems, where it is about who runs the Swedish school so that it is equal, and in the form of the question what the competitive situation is and how we allow our common funds to be used. I stand for a government that thinks tax money should go back to school. We will ensure that we have a high teacher density so that each student receives the instruction it deserves.
i-692664c87d3f1408-754	Madam President, I would like Perhaps now we should not have a debate about free schools and profits in the school system, because then we would have to go on until midnight. Maybe that's not allowed. I do not think, however, that we disagree very much, and if I am going to spend just a few seconds on this, I believe that the school system has contributed to initiative and a lot of quality in the school system. Then I think that since 1995 many politicians have sometimes been naive and blue-eyed. They have not thought it would go as far as it has in some cases. We should also remember that the free school system operated for 12 years under previous social democratic rule, until 2006. However, it has gone far and sometimes too far. There are varieties that I react as much to as everyone else. There are examples of agricultural upper secondary schools and practical programs that receive 140 000 – 180 000 SEK per student and are not used properly. It is to be prosecuted; I fully agree with that. Otherwise, I would like to thank you for your reply.
i-8EYChAwZWhdDXEFugaKvFo	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mikael Svensson, for both the post and the interpellation! As I said, you put your finger on something that is very important, and I look forward to further discussions on this.
i-692664c87d3f1408-759	Madam President, I would like Michael Svensson has asked me what reforms I intend to initiate in order to improve the skills and working environment of study and career advisers. For me, it is important that study and career guidance is designed so that students' choices for the future are based on a balanced combination of students' needs and interests and the skills and recruitment needs of the working life. In the run-up to these choices, students need to develop knowledge about themselves and about different choices. Study and career guidance is an important part of lifelong learning and support in an individual's ongoing career process. It therefore plays an important role in both primary and secondary schools and adult education. There are currently several ongoing initiatives aimed at improving guidance on study and vocational guidance. Firstly, the government has in its budget bill for 2016 (prop. 2015/ 16:1) announced that the Government of the National Board of Education's mission to carry out training activities primarily for guidance counselors to improve the quality of guidance will be extended and extended. The training activities are currently to be directed towards developing study and career guidance, with a particular focus on increasing knowledge of the labour market. In addition, the mission should be expanded with a further focus on strengthening the gender perspective in order to contribute to ensuring that students' study and career choices are not limited by gender or social or cultural background. Secondly, in the bill, the government has increased individual support – a more effective SFI and adult education (prop. 2014/ 15:85) decided by the Riksdag in 2015(bit. 2014/ 15:UbU 13) proposed amendments to the School Act(2010:800) aimed at clarifying the requirements for municipalities to provide study and vocational guidance. According to the recent legislative changes, the municipality of residence is obliged to ensure that those who intend to start municipal adult education at basic level or in Swedish for immigrants or special education for adults at basic level are offered study and vocational guidance. Thirdly, in the 2016 budget bill, the government proposes to allocate funds to the Swedish National Agency for Education and Training to develop training courses for study and career advisors specifically on validation. Study and guidance counsellors will thus have better tools to identify and clarify what skills and knowledge students already have with them. Fourthly, the Vocational Programme Investigation (U2014:01) has been tasked with analysing, among other things, whether good quality study and career guidance is offered to pupils in comprehensive school and upper secondary school to a sufficient extent and, if necessary, proposing how study and career guidance can be developed (dir. 2015:15). The investigation will be submitting its final report within just a few days, and I look forward to hearing the conclusions of the investigation.
i-LxJ59nUJYpyatAYUm9s1xv	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for this afternoon's third answer! I could tell now that the answer is thin, because you usually do that sometimes, but I really won't. On the other hand, I think that there are some open doors that are being slammed in. Knowledge already exists about the position of the vast majority of the country's SYVs. Many feel inadequate, and it is of course not just their own fault but the fault of the system. For many years this group has been seen over the shoulder. The training has been inadequate and luxuriant. Many SYVs have come from different directions and from different backgrounds. I would say that many people regard it as a low-status profession in school, and there we have one of the problems, I think. They even have a lower status than teachers. Therefore, it will be difficult to recruit the best and most suitable and suitable for the profession, something that I think is very important. Of course, all the misery in school is not due to the SUVs. But they are an important group, more important than many of us realize and certainly even than they realize. Farthest from the SYVs, that is, in the labour market, we have matching problems. Too many people need to complement their education. It takes time and costs money both for the individual and for society. We know that there are too many high school students who feel that they have made the wrong choices, that they should perhaps have chosen another programme. It's hard to reselect. This often leads to a fourth year, accompanied by costs and problems. We know from studies that only about 1% of the elections are based on advice from the SUVs when the nines are going to apply for upper secondary school. Of course, it does not have to be the fault of the SUVs alone. A lot of students have great parents. They are wise, curious and inquisitive, and so are the students. But 1% speaks a rather clear language, I think. The fact remains: the mischoice is there and costs a lot of money. Here I think the SUVs could play a much bigger and more active role. Training needs to be reviewed as well as continuing training for those who are already in the profession today. I believe that there is a need for a real boost in knowledge, which is, of course, one of the responsibilities of the Government. It refers not only to students but in this case to SYVs. I've been out talking to a lot of SUVs. The ignorance among them is great in terms of high school, its various programmes and what they lead to and also, of course, in terms of the SUVs in high school, what the labour market looks like today and how to complement their education.
i-692664c87d3f1408-774	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mikael Svensson, for a third interpellation this evening, a very good one in this case too! The answer I give to the interpeller is a start to something that I believe will be a major and important reform work, because the study and career guidance, as it works today, will require major changes. I think what we need to do, among other things, is to ensure that this function becomes more of an active and offensive function in school, that you work more out in the classrooms, meet the students throughout the course of studies, both in high school and in high school. This work must be done continuously. I also think that we need to work actively to update the picture of the labour market. This must be something that seeps down to the students. Students need to understand that there are professions beyond the police, welders, lawyers and doctors, that there are other things that are very relevant to the labour market. But they must also be informed about this. The approach is quite clear on my part. This is something I intend to deal with during the year that is coming. I believe that study and career guidance will be an important part of a more well-functioning labour market where matching works better. Students should be able to make more informed choices in high school, and especially in high school, and choose something that reflects their own wishes and interests. But it should also provide better skills, as the labour market demands.
i-692664c87d3f1408-778	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its answer. I am pleased to hear that these problems can be raised. Socio-economic calculations have been made. Every student who finishes early in high school or doesn't get a degree, and that's about 15,000, the community costs about 15 million SEK per individual during their life cycle. If we count low and take five years of age by 10 million times 12,000 students, we end up on astronomical sums. For this reason, I believe that the funding model for Swedish schools should also be reviewed, but it is the subject of another debate. So there is a lot of money to save if we get better trained SYVs and considerably more SYVs. I think that part of the knowledge that SYVs convey should be included in the teacher training in the future. It is not enough that there are SYVs in the schools. This knowledge should be found naturally in teachers as well as a good contact with the labour market. The government might even think of some kind of fast track to train more SUVs. As regards access to SYVs at primary and secondary schools, the best municipalities have 14 pupils per SYV. In the worst municipalities, there are up to 6,900 pupils per SYV. So there is much to do here.
i-692664c87d3f1408-784	Mr President, I would like to In addition to what Michael Svensson mentions, we need to look at how study and career guidance can be a function that is more clearly linked to what the social partners think is relevant and important. Therefore, I found it important to commission the ongoing Vocational Programme inquiry to look at how cooperation with the labour market and the social partners can be even better for the entire upper secondary school but also for study and career guidance as this function is central to the choices students make. I agree with the great analysis. Every mischoice also becomes a shortage for the labour market later. We know that one of the reasons why we have such high unemployment as we have in Sweden is the matching problem and the recruitment gap in the labour market. At present, about 7% of our population wants jobs but cannot get jobs while one in five recruitment attempts from the entrepreneurial sector fails. Matching problems are already starting in school. In the end, the mischoice becomes a major social problem. This missing link may be the start of a much larger societal problem that we need to address. Let us return to the issue in the future, and I am happy to continue the discussion.
i-692664c87d3f1408-789	Mr President, I would like to All I have left is to wish everyone in this House a pleasant evening.
i-692664c87d3f1408-790	Mr President, I would like to I thank Michael Svensson for that. I wish you and everyone else in this Chamber a pleasant evening. This also applies to those who have been patient to look at this interpellation debate.
