i-e69b8958971e4c09-4	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the reservation in report 2015/ 16:SkU4. The report deals with the handling of the double-trial ban and other issues of legal certainty. When we have dealt with this, we have concentrated on looking at the implications for legal certainty in the various parts of the proposal. The very starting point of the bill is to strengthen legal certainty in the way it is handled because of different circumstances that have arisen. We have also looked at it from the following perspective: are the proposals put forward really the best way to resolve the problems of legal certainty in tax cases of the nature of the proposal? Mr President, I would like to The answer to the questions we have asked is no. In the bill, the government has not acted hard enough to create the best solution, which acts as a deterrent to those who commit crime with their tax records and other information and which allows them to be treated in the most legally secure manner possible in the cases in question. In fact, Mr President, we believe that exactly the opposite has been achieved. It creates more legal uncertainty and arbitrariness by dividing the process of deciding whether or not to impose a fine, depending on the condition, i.e. whether or not the defendant was first convicted of tax offences. There are double procedures with completely different starting points and legal backgrounds. In the former case, it is to be dealt with by a court and in the latter case – it is the same issue, i.e. the possible imposition of tax surcharges – by officials of the Tax Agency. It has been complicated in an unimaginable way. We believe that a radical approach should have been taken to the bias in Swedish law that is called a tax surcharge. One of the fundamental and stated objectives of the whole public administration is to create a relevant and understandable legislation and implementing rules that apply equally to all and which are also within the framework of general legal awareness. The current proposals in the proposal go in the opposite direction in all these respects. The Swedish Tax Agency believes that the tax surcharge should be seen as an administrative fee. Here we have one of the major problems. This view has long been a concept far beyond the bounds of general law-consciousness. Virtually everyone affected by this charge sees it as a punishment. It is a punishment without a sentence, and it does not exist in the rule of law. It's against any legal principles we can find. No one should be punished without being convicted of a crime-- that's our basic starting point in our assessment of this. And when it comes to being convicted of a crime, we have a long tradition in Sweden. One should be considered innocent until the opposite has been proven. In sharp contrast to the Swedish Tax Agency, the Supreme Court and the EU Court of Justice have clearly stated that the tax surcharge should be regarded as a penalty. Of course it is. That's how it is. This in itself is sufficient basis for drawing the conclusions we have drawn. The law enforcement authorities have opposed the Swedish Tax Agency's assessment in several cases. Both the Tax Agency and the Government should draw reasonable conclusions from such positions. References to these positions are also contained in the bill, which makes it clearer that a different path should be found than the one chosen by the government. The Government's proposal therefore violates the principles of law that we hold dear in this House. The proposal does not correct the problems. Rather, they create new and more problems of the same kind. That is why, Mr President, we have chosen to reject the proposal. We have also chosen to urge the government to redo the work on the basis of our proposal to completely abolish the penalty tax surcharge. It does not meet a high enough standard to exist in the rule of law, whether from a procedural point of view or from the point of view of general legal awareness. Instead, all cases of inaccuracies that can be judged to be of a criminal standard and that can be assessed as tax offences should be investigated as a crime in the same order as now and then handled by the judicial system in the ordinary order. The tax surcharge is therefore abolished completely and, instead, the penalty is increased and, in the case of serious crimes, prison sentences are increased. Our proposal significantly strengthens legal certainty. The unjust sanction of the tax surcharge, without proof of crime, is completely abolished. The legal process becomes uniform and predictable in both form and principles in the way that all legal processes are to be governed by the rule of law. Mr President, I would like to In our motion we are discussing the conditions that should apply on the basis of the reasoning I have set out in this speech. In addition to the fact that the government completely misses the opportunity to correct legal certainty in tax offences' cases, the current legislative proposals create more extensive bureaucracy and more complex rules to be interpreted and understood in complex contexts. And the conditions are being built to reduce the willingness to comply with the rules in tax matters. This is completely against the government's own instructions to the Tax Agency, such as the regulation letter. We need to increase confidence in the legal certainty of tax cases. We also need to increase the relevance of the treatment of tax offences by removing procedural rules that are outside the judicial system. Punishment should only be able to follow a final judgment in court. That is why the bill must be rejected. The government should come back with a new proposal in accordance with what is stated in our reservation and which meets these requirements.
i-e69b8958971e4c09-17	Mr President, I would like to In connection with the Spring Bill a few years ago, the Parliament adopted guidelines for fiscal policy. These should be good conditions for sustainable and high employment, good conditions for entrepreneurship and investment, general and fair distribution of welfare, effective economic instruments and legitimacy and fairness in the system. Mr President, I would like to The very prerequisite for these guidelines is continuous work to strengthen legal certainty. This is absolutely necessary in order to maintain and increase the legitimacy of the tax system. The proposal we are discussing today is an important step on complex issues. The Alliance government set up the investigation that forms the background to today's bill. With regard to the treatment of that bill by the Committee on Taxation, seven parties have supported the proposal in the report. I would like to take this opportunity to start with a few reflections on legal certainty, because legal certainty is crucial for Sweden as a nation to continue to be a country where people want to start and run businesses and change their entrepreneurship. Mr President, I would like to For Sweden as a nation, a lack of legal certainty risks not only that many individuals get caught, but it also increases the risk that entrepreneurs take when they start companies, expand and hire. In the long run, it has a negative impact on entrepreneurship, which in turn means fewer new jobs and less tax revenue for our common well-being. Few provisions in the Swedish constitutions are as clear as the provision that the Riksdag decides on taxes and charges to the state and on the state budget. Although the provision, both old and new, is unambiguous, its application is not self-evident. Not least in a country with a far-reaching legislative delegation, where authorities are entrusted with shaping policies under horizontal framework laws and often framework regulations, it is doubtful whether the principle is upheld. With today's report, we are therefore taking an important step towards greater legal certainty. Mr President, I would like to Legal certainty means that the individual enjoys protection against the legitimate exercise of power by the state itself. It is a protection that must be achieved through rules that have the character of laws and of legally binding standards. Legal certainty is inextricably linked to the idea of the rule of law and of the right itself, or the law, as a self-worth – something more than just an instrument for carrying out the will of political power. This view is anchored in the Swedish Constitution. The principles of legal certainty must satisfy the individual citizen's natural demands for security in society. This requirement for security is for society to be organised and organised so that citizens and organisations can anticipate the legal consequences of their actions. Predictability is considered to be a fundamental element of the concept of legal certainty. Finally, Mr President, it should be difficult to make mistakes. You're supposed to do the right thing from the start. Developments in the tax area have shifted to more preventive and less controlling. Of course, in this work it is important that we also carry out legislative work to facilitate this approach. With this, I would like to call for the proposal of the Committee on Taxation to be approved in the report and, therefore, in the present proposal.
i-e69b8958971e4c09-28	Mr President, I would like to I have just one brief question about the starting point of the tax surcharge as such. It can be said that tax surcharges are a remnant of the government efforts of the Red 70s to regard people as potential criminals who have not yet been discovered. It came about in a legislation in 1972, I think it was. The very idea behind the tax surcharge as construction is precisely the strange idea that people and companies with a government decision can impose a penalty of hundreds of thousands of crowns that you have to pay in. If you want, can and can afford, you can appeal against such a decision in a court of law, but it is an enormous time-consuming and costly process. We believe that this kind of nonsense should be abolished in Swedish law enforcement, because it does not belong in the rule of law. Why doesn't the Center Party think so?
i-e69b8958971e4c09-32	Mr President, I would like to Swedish tax policy and judicial review linked to tax policy have changed over decades. I think it is a good piece of work that Parliament has done on the initiative of several different governments. During the alliance period, we have also worked on these issues. We had initiated the investigation that forms the basis of the proposal we have to deal with today, and here the rules are clarified both for tax surcharges and for tax offences in order to clear up the system, clarify and create a better predictability and thus also lift the individual or individual company to create predictability and clarity. Moreover, the changes that are on the table today are adapted to the regulatory framework that is being dealt with by the EU.
i-e69b8958971e4c09-35	Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, I did not get an answer to the question. I asked why the Center Party does not think that we should remove this kind of aversion of so-called administrative charges that should still be in place under this proposal, where the Tax Agency can impose immensely severe penalties that are almost not in the context of fines in ordinary law enforcement. Why doesn't the Center Party want to remove this nonsense?
i-e69b8958971e4c09-37	Mr President, I would like to I have replied: it is very important for us to clarify the dual procedure, i.e. both the fine and the fine, and therefore the judgment based on the case law we have in Sweden. We think that the bill put on the table by the government, which all parties, except the Swedish Democrats, have supported in the Tax Committee, makes a good balance in which we allow the authorities to play a clear role and in which we allow the judicial system in the form of courts to play a different role. With the proposal that we are discussing today and the proposal for a decision that the Committee on Taxation has put on Parliament's table, we are clarifying these pieces, and I think that is very good.
i-e69b8958971e4c09-40	Mr President, I would like to Tax collection is a prerequisite for a functioning welfare. It is therefore important that withdrawals are made in a manner that is legitimate, both in terms of how the individual accounts for his or her taxable income and how the State collects tax from that income. That is, as it were, a shared responsibility between the individual and the state. It is therefore crucial both that the Tax Agency, which is the authority responsible for collecting taxes, makes it as simple as possible and that the individual participates by providing accurate information. There is also a need for effective sanctions against those individuals who do not participate. We know that this occurs either by omitting information or by providing incorrect information. In many cases this may be a case of negligence, but in many cases it is also a case of deliberate evasion of taxes. For decades, we have a sanction facility called a tax surcharge. It is decided by the Tax Agency on objective grounds, not on purpose, and is there to prosecute and prevent tax errors. But avoidance is also a crime that can lead to general prosecution. Then the question of intent will also be assessed. The existence of both systems sometimes leads to double proceedings and to the same person being tried or sentenced for the same act twice. It is contrary to what is acceptable in the rule of law, and it is contrary to the European Convention and European law, which we have committed ourselves to. The question of cross-examination has been raised several times over a number of years with different decisions in different bodies, as is also described in both the proposal and the report. That is why it is a good thing, Mr President, that this is now being addressed. This is done, among other things, by introducing a barrier rule which states that one body may not initiate proceedings if the other has already done so. This prevents double-checking and increases legal certainty in the tax procedure. The proposal in the bill also means that a combined review can be made, i.e. that when a tax offence case is to be tried in a public court, the prosecutor is also given the task of representing the issue of the tax fine. Several consultation bodies and the Law Council have considered that this will be complicated, but it is important to point out that the majority of referral bodies have either agreed or not opposed the proposals in the proposal. It is also clear from the bill that, if they gain legal force, the changes will be followed up. But I'm sure it's going to be a bit complicated. A large part of our legislation is complicated. But you have to ask yourself what the alternative is. The option represented by the Swedish Democrats today is to completely abolish the tax surcharge. But it would be to loosen the line between what is legal and what is illegal and the tools for preventing tax error would be fewer. I find it difficult to see that the Swedish Democrats, who would like to promote themselves as defenders of law, would pursue similar issues in other areas of law. One might wonder whether it is out of concern for applicable legislation or whether it is out of concern for party comrades who tend to be involved in such procedures. The proposals would, if they became reality, have consequences for the possibility of maintaining justice and order in the levying of taxes. That, Mr President, is something that we Social Democrats do not want to contribute to. That is why I support the motion and reject the motion.
i-e69b8958971e4c09-51	Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, Sara Karlsson concludes her speech at a low level that should not belong here, but I leave it without further comment. Sara Karlsson says that the double trial is removed. That's absolutely right. That is the very essence of the whole report and of the proposal. That's good. We have absolutely nothing against that. On the contrary! But what we are opposed to is that you do not go all the way and remove an aversion in Swedish law enforcement where people and companies are punished without a conviction. It is a wrongful way of dealing with the issue. It is based on old Social Democratic left-wing politics. Then Sara Karlsson must stand here and defend that policy. Nevertheless, I ask why the Social Democrats want to keep such a wrongful process in the Swedish tax system. Both the Supreme Court and the Supreme Administrative Court as well as EU law have rejected the dual-trial function and the very content of punishing people without a conviction. Why do the Social Democrats not want to remove this nonsense?
i-e69b8958971e4c09-56	Mr President, I would like to It is Social Democratic policy to levy taxes to finance welfare. The tax shall be levied in a fair and legitimate manner. I'm having a bit of a hard time understanding the objection. There are different types of periodic penalty payments available to authorities in different areas. I do not think it is an anomaly, as is claimed by the Swedish Democrats. Of course, it is important to prevent tax errors in different ways. It is also a job that we know is done well by the authority responsible for collecting taxes, i.e. the Tax Agency. We can also see that there is good trust in the Swedish Tax Agency among the citizens of Sweden.
i-e69b8958971e4c09-59	Mr President, I would like to I do not think that the company that a couple of years ago – one in the pile – received a tax surcharge of SEK 600 000, quite erroneously without a factual basis, was forced to pay and run a multi-annual process and then get the right against the tax authority, thinks the system is legally secure. I cannot understand for my life that the Social Democrats, who want to be a state-supporting party, may think that there should be such a wrongful process. Sara Karlsson talks about levying taxes to finance welfare, and so on. But that has nothing to do with this issue. Of course, we should levy taxes to finance welfare, but it should be a legal process when authorities and courts impose high fines. It is not an administrative fee, Sara Karlsson, but a cure. It's been decided by the highest court. I still wonder why the Social Democrats want this kind of legal insecure system to remain in Sweden. Sweden needs clear rules where those who commit crimes should of course be punished. Instead, the Swedish democrats want to raise the scale of penalties in tax cases. That is the legal way to deal with the issue. Of course, if a person or company provides incorrect information or does something else that involves committing a tax offence, they should be convicted. We want to raise the scale of penalties and remove the rightful penalty imposed by the tax surcharge. Why do the Social Democrats not want to do that? Why do you not want to strengthen the rule of law? Here's your chance. You haven't taken the chance given in the bill. Why don't you want to?
i-e69b8958971e4c09-63	Mr President, I would like to I would like to remind Olle Felten that the basis of the proposal is to strengthen legal certainty in the tax procedure. A majority of the consultation bodies either agree or have no objection to the proposals. In addition, I would like to point out that it is clear in the proposal that if the proposal becomes final, it will be followed up. It is always important to continue working on legal certainty in different types of proceedings. It is important that you can have your case tried. These are important principles of law that we Social Democrats are working hard on. I'm not a wurver of harsher punishment in general. That is a point where I differ from Olle Felten's party. On the other hand, it is extremely important to prevent errors and crime, to distinguish between right and wrong, and to distinguish between legal and illegal. That's where we split up. It is interesting to note and reflect on it.
i-e69b8958971e4c09-66	Mr President, I would like to That the Supreme Court amends the practice and also decides that a prohibition, in this case against double punishment in tax cases, shall apply retroactively is not commonplace. In this case, it has happened, and this in turn has led to convicted tax offenders having requested a revision and being released from our prisons. In Sweden, tax matters have historically been penalised twice, partly by the Swedish Tax Agency issuing a tax surcharge, and partly by the fact that the general court can be prosecuted and convicted for tax offences. The offence of a feline offence is a criminal sanction. On the other hand, it is considered to be an administrative sanction only. However, for the European Court of Human Rights, this sanction is an accusation of crimes in the sense of the European Convention. Therefore, Sweden's handling under the European Convention is contrary to the principle that no one may be prosecuted or punished again in the same offence. Different laws and conditions apply to the two offences, and they are dealt with in different court systems, general courts and administrative courts. This means that it is complicated to come up with a good solution. Legal certainty is important. For several years, the situation of double penalties, or rather double trials, has been uncertain for tax cases, with apparently random convictions. Individual citizens may have perceived themselves as being subjected to arbitrary interference on the part of society. Therefore, in order for Sweden to take account of the European Convention on Human Rights, an investigation was set up during the Alliance which produced a unanimous report on the basis of the given directives. The proposal is based on this report and proposes introducing a barrier rule so that the Swedish Tax Agency cannot issue tax surcharges if the prosecutor has initiated a tax criminal proceedings on the same inaccuracies or inactions in relation to the same person and vice versa, i.e. that a prosecutor cannot initiate proceedings if the Swedish Tax Agency has already issued a tax surcharge. In addition, a single sanction procedure is introduced whereby, in the event of prosecution by the prosecutor of tax offences in the public court, it is possible at the same time to seek and decide on a fine. This has thus so far been dealt with by the Tax Agency and by the Administrative Court. Both the Committee on Justice and the Committee on Taxation issued announcements during the last parliamentary term. In the Tax Committee, we unanimously called for a change of law as soon as possible, as the Parliament agreed. It is true that the proposal receives a great deal of criticism, not least from the prosecution. At the same time, the situation today is unsustainable, and the issues have been investigated for a long time. We now have a proposal based on a unanimous report. It is well thought out and coherent and represents an improvement in legal certainty compared to today's situation. The advantages thus outweigh the disadvantages. Furthermore, given the Parliament's express desire to adapt the law as soon as possible to comply with the ECHR, the proposal is the only option. It will be necessary to follow how the barrier rule works in practice. The limitation rule is based on the good communication between the prosecutor and the Tax Agency, but the consequences of the overall sanction procedure will also be relevant. This applies not only to how practices will develop when tax surcharges can be dealt with in both general courts and administrative courts, but also to the problems of equal treatment that will arise. We will have to follow developments closely and be prepared to revise the legislation. I support the proposal in the report.
i-e69b8958971e4c09-75	Mr President, I would like to The proposal and the report state as the main reason for making the proposed amendments that the rules on tax surcharges and tax offences are changed in order to strengthen legal certainty in the tax procedure. It is good that Anette Åkesson and the Moderates stand up for those principles. The changes come, as we have also heard, from a series of judgments in the Supreme Court, the Supreme Administrative Court and the European Court of Justice. These judges are mentioned in the Government's proposal, and they call for the abolition of the double procedure. We are absolutely behind this; there is no doubt about it. It is good that this has been done. However, the opportunity has not been taken to remove the most legally insecure parts of the system. Unfortunately, I also received no information from Anette Åkesson in the speaker's chair as to whether the Moderates actually see this problem. On the contrary, they continue to cling to the left rhetoric of the 1970s that the Moderates have returned to. It's boring, I think. The Moderates have previously stood for a strong legal patho, which was why I was once moderate. Now I'm not anymore. I find it sad that the Moderates are not following up on that tradition, and I want an answer. We believe that crime and punishment should be pursued. They don't do that in this case. It would have had the chance to follow our proposal to send this back, to make a change and to remove the unjustifiable tax surcharge.
i-e69b8958971e4c09-78	Mr President, I would like to I'd like to thank Olle Felten for asking me. I've been looking into why the tax surcharges came to 1972. It was not like a wrongful measure, as Olle Felten wants to suggest, but it was simply in order that ordinary citizens who do wrong should not have to go through the whole court process. The courts were also overcrowded by very many smaller cases and would instead concentrate on tax offences. As we have said, it is an administrative sanction. In fact, I am really curious as to how the proposal presented by the Swedish Democrats is actually different from the existing proposal. It is proposed to introduce a smaller administrative charge, and that is exactly what the tax surcharge is. So I put the counter-question to Olle Felten.
i-e69b8958971e4c09-80	Mr President, I would like to It is quite simple, and it is evident from our exercise. We call it a kind of reminder fee. That's the level of this, and it's just for the purely administrative thing. Anette Åkesson now says that the tax surcharge is an administrative measure, Mr President. It's not that. We have, from the Supreme Court, the Supreme Administrative Court and the Court of Justice of the European Union, established final judgments that say that this is a punishment. We believe that no one should be punished without being convicted of a crime. There is a big difference in legal pathos between all the other parties – unfortunately even the Moderates – and the Swedish Democrats. The Swedish Democrats stand for a strong rule of law and a development of it. That is the reason for our exercise. I find it sad that the rest of you do not come along, and that the Moderates do not surprise me. I would like once again to give Anette Åkesson the chance to answer the question why the Moderates do not want to strengthen the rule of law in this area.
i-e69b8958971e4c09-83	Mr President, I would like to We want to strengthen legal certainty, and that is why we are calling for the proposal to be approved. That is, as it were, the best thing that lies ahead. I did not really get an answer to the question of how the Swedish Democrats' proposal distinguishes itself with regard to the administrative sanction imposed by the fine. In addition, the Swedish Democrats do not present any consequences of their proposals, while in what belongs to the bill we have a thorough investigation which – admittedly under specific directives – is going through the consequences of the proposals. A large number of experts have agreed that this is the best proposal under the current circumstances. In addition, the following can be said: As the tax surcharge now stands, the Tax Procedure Act defines the level at which it should be applied. It is therefore between 2 and 40% of the final tax, depending on the circumstances. As I said, it is an administrative sanction.
i-e69b8958971e4c09-86	Mr President, I would like to Today, if we now follow the committee's line and approve the bill, Parliament will take a decision to ensure that, by means of a so-called double-trial ban, the same offence can no longer be punished on two different occasions. This is a good change that strengthens legal certainty. It is important that there should not be multiple parallel processes for the same offence. So what we are doing now is a clear improvement in the system v i har. Sweden has been convicted of this in the EU Court of Justice, and also the Supreme Court and the Supreme Administrative Court have said that the system we have had with both the tax surcharge from the responsible authority, i.e. the Tax Agency, and tax criminality review in court is contrary to the double-trial ban. In the same court proceedings, it will continue to be possible both to receive tax penalties and to be convicted of a tax offence in the event of a crime. I don't see anything strange about handling several of these parts in the same process. The corresponding provisions also apply to other types of crime, i.e. financial penalties are imposed at the same time as other penalties are imposed. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved in the report, that is to say, to approve the proposal.
i-e69b8958971e4c09-90	Mr President, I would like to I have a simple question for the Green Party and Rasmus Ling. Has the Green Party understood that the tax surcharge is a punishment?
i-e69b8958971e4c09-91	Mr President, I would like to As I said in my speech, the change is based on not having parallel processes around the same misdemeanour. The European Court of Human Rights sees it as a punishment in the event of parallel proceedings. You shouldn't get the same sentence several times and from different directions. I would like to put a counter-question to the Swedish Democrats, who want to remove this. Does the same apply when there are other financial sanctions from the authorities when citizens are wrong? If you park the car wrong, stand for too long or in the wrong place, you get a fine. There will be no ordinary court proceedings. Is it something that the Swedish Democrats do not support?
i-e69b8958971e4c09-93	Mr President, I would like to It is almost a bit comical when the Green Party and Rasmus Ling compare condemned tax surcharges of hundreds of thousands of crowns with a simple parking ticket. Actually, I don't understand the question. They really have nothing to do with each other. I had to give you an answer, so I'm going to ask the question again. Has the Green Party understood that the tax surcharge is a punishment? Rasmus Ling goes back to the discussion of parallel processes. The abolition of parallel processes is of course great. That is absolutely necessary. We agree with that. But we want to abolish this kind of illegal distribution of punishment when one is not convicted of a crime. Again, has the Green Party really understood that the tax surcharge is a penalty, whether it is imposed by a court decision or if the Tax Agency condemns it by an authority decision?
i-e69b8958971e4c09-97	Mr President, I would like to Olle Felten has said in this debate that he supports the abolition of the double-trial ban while saying that the bill is heading in the wrong direction. For me, it is unclear what Olle Felten actually thinks about the proposal. Is it going in the right direction or is it going in the wrong direction and making things worse? With regard to the individual who receives a tax surcharge in which there is a lot of money, this system still has the possibility to appeal against the decision. What the Swedish Democrats want is for every minor offence to lead to a court case, that even those who have been careless, made a minor offence, should have to undergo a court case. I do not think it is a reasonable order, and I do not understand how the Swedish Democrats can think that the Court of Justice should get the increased burden. Above all, I do not understand how we want to allow all those who today receive a tax surcharge, and who can sort it out in a simple way, to go through court proceedings.
i-e69b8958971e4c09-100	Mr President, I would like to When we debate today the tax agreement between Sweden and Great Britain and Northern Ireland, it is one of many agreements that Sweden has concluded with other countries since the 1920s. The aim of the new tax agreement is primarily to avoid double taxation and to prevent tax evasion in respect of taxes on income and capital gains. An important objective of tax treaties is also to encourage investment between the contracting countries, which is important for a small export-dependent country like Sweden. The present agreement replaces an agreement from 1983. The Government's proposal proposes that the Riksdag adopt this as a law and, as is customary, that the law should enter into force on the day that the Government decides. The agreement is closely aligned with the model recommended by the OECD for bilateral tax treaties. The new agreement includes changes in the taxation of pensions, annuities and similar payments. The amendment gives the paying State a more far-reaching tax right than the one contained in the 1983 agreement. A transitional provision allows those who, immediately before the entry into force of the agreement, were beneficiaries of a pension, annuity or similar, to choose to continue to be taxed under the old rules. Where an active choice is not made, the new agreement applies to the revenue in question. Mr President, I would like to It is a very brief summary of the report approved by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy.
i-e69b8958971e4c09-106	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for approval of the proposal contained in the Tax Committee's report 2015/ 16:SkU6. It is a good thing that the update of the tax agreement with Great Britain and Northern Ireland, which is now on the table of Parliament, has come about. There's no doubt about it. However, it may be appropriate to give some thought to what a tax treaty is. All States with taxing rights over their citizens, companies and other persons who are permanently resident and operating in the country, as well as internationally active companies and persons who reside in different countries from time to time sometimes end up in situations where they risk double taxation of income and capital in different countries. It is the task of the tax agreements to eliminate such errors, and it can apply to both natural and legal persons. Double taxation hampers the free exchange of goods and services, capital movements and labour mobility. This is one of the fundamental reasons why bilateral tax agreements are being negotiated between different states. The aim of the agreements is therefore to eliminate double taxation, to facilitate investment and to eliminate the possibility of evasion of taxes, which is also an important objective of the tax agreements. The main meaning of tax agreements is to allocate tax rights to different types of income between countries, thereby facilitating trade and other exchanges between them. The agreements therefore contain rules on the allocation of tax rights. Finansinspektionen gives four main reasons, in addition to the two basic reasons mentioned above, for the importance of tax agreements. Tax agreements with low withholding taxes are a prerequisite for Swedish-based groups to operate and compete well abroad, on equal terms with our competing foreign companies. A wide competitive tax treaty network is a very important factor in foreign groups' choice of European headquarters, for example. Old, outdated, leaking tax treaties pose a risk of loss of tax revenue and facilitate the renegotiation of the agreements. The exchange of information is an important part of effective tax control and is also part of the tax agreements. The tax agreements thus have a very important function, and Sweden has traditionally been at the top. The old 1983 agreement with Great Britain and Northern Ireland is now getting a boost, which we think is very good. We had the parliamentary investigation service conduct a survey among our most important major export companies on how they view tax agreements, the level that Sweden currently has on tax agreements and the timeliness and scope. We wanted to know how the terms of the tax agreements affect companies' strategic decisions on the location of vital functions, headquarters, production units and so on. The overall answer is that they are important. It's not the only important part, but it's a very important component in the context. On this basis, I must also reflect on how the Minister of Finance is leading the work of the Ministry of Finance in this regard, to develop our tax treaties. Since 1998, when Sweden was in third place in having updated and good tax agreements among the most important OECD countries, we have dropped to perhaps ten or twelve. The 82 countries with which Sweden has tax agreements – but not Great Britain and Northern Ireland – had according to a compilation of international statistics from 13 June 2014 that the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise has made a total of 161 agreements with our competitor countries that were more favourable in a total of 320 different respects than their agreements with Sweden. It is great that we get the update with Great Britain and Northern Ireland, but the process of developing, improving and updating our old tax treaties with all the other countries, with which we have much worse conditions than our competitor countries, must get off the ground. While we are now pleased that the agreement with Great Britain and Northern Ireland is being updated, I would like once again to appeal to the Government to ensure that the work on tax agreements is given higher priority, so that at the end of the term of office we can sum up the work in this House and note that the Swedish tax agreement catalogue is then on top again. I would like to see this happen, because it is important for Sweden. The question is whether the government is able to deal with the issue in this way.
i-e69b8958971e4c09-118	Mr President, I would like to We can agree on one thing: these tax agreements are important for Sweden and for other countries. As I see it, the Swedish Democrats, including in a previous debate on an interpellation from Olle Felten, have criticised all the governments over the last 15 years for having been too slow and for the tax agreements that have been concluded have been too bad in comparison with other countries. It is very easy to criticise if you do not have responsibility. The criticism against which the Swedish Democrats lean is the Swedish Enterprise's report from 2014. It was certainly the case that the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise criticised the government in the 2010 report because the government was not sufficiently active. Maybe it was justified then. But in the 2014 report, in which the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise has updated the old report, it is said that So we have gone from being critical to saying that we are in favour of the work that is being done. Of course you can be critical and then change and be positive. We think that's a good thing. At the same time, we should be aware that it is the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise that has written the report, and they also take a great deal of credit for this. I do not know at what rate the Swedish democrats intend the government to work on the tax agreements. But it must still be a process that is responsible. When two countries agree, it may take time.
i-e69b8958971e4c09-123	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question and the comment. We based our actions on the tax treaty process this spring – the process that is now continuing – primarily on the Swedish National Audit Office's very sharp criticism in 2010 of how the tax treaty processes have been handled right from Göran Persson's time in 1998, when Sweden was third in the top, and onwards. It is both Social Democratic governments and the Alliance Government that receive very sharp criticism from the National Audit Office for their way of handling – or refraining from handling – tax agreements and instead concentrate on information exchange agreements, which are largely a small part of tax agreements, because information exchange agreements are also part of a tax agreement. It has thus concentrated on a somewhat marginal but of course still important element. The large group that the Swedish National Audit Office – and also the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise – had in 2010 been concerned that the government had released the focus from continuing to develop existing agreements and to acquire new agreements. The statistics that the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise is basing its criticism on in the 2014 Supplementary Report come from international statistical offices, and I do not believe that the Alliance can contradict them. These are correct statistics– I can't find anything that contradicts those statistics, and I don't think the Moderates can. I don't really understand the question, to be honest.
i-e69b8958971e4c09-127	Mr President, I would like to The question is: What pace do the Swedish democrats think we should work in? This is the case in this case with the Social Democratic Government, which I am not supposed to stand here and defend, but because the criticism has been directed both against Social Democratic governments and against the Alliance Government, the question is: at what pace are we going to work? Do the Swedish Democrats think it is better to instigate a tax treaty than to do so responsibly? Information exchange is also essential. These are the relevant information to be included in the exchange of information. However, one does not exclude the other, and there is work going on and has been going on to make more agreements forward. There is work going on that the Swedish Democrats choose to criticise without having a real answer to how it should be done. I would also like to say that, for Sweden, the initiatives for the negotiation of new tax treaties are usually from companies or industrial associations. However, the renegotiation of existing agreements is prompted by new legislation either in Sweden or in other countries. But I will return to the question: How do the Swedish Democrats intend? Is it necessary to incite or work responsibly?
i-e69b8958971e4c09-131	Mr President, I would like to A tax agreement that you negotiate is not something you get excited about – it becomes a bit strange question. Both Maria Plass and I know that it takes at least two to four years to draw up a tax treaty, so that is not something you do quickly, but something that needs to be done in a consistent, long-term and conscious manner. When Göran Persson's government in the late 90's more or less closed down the department that worked on the tax agreements or gave them other tasks, they removed the long-term, purposeful work of developing our tax agreements. That's where the problem is. We need to recreate this situation within the Ministry of Finance, so that we continuously work with enough people who are involved in tax agreements and run these processes in a serious way. That's what we're after.
i-e69b8958971e4c09-132	Mr President, I would like to The housing shortage is today on everyone's lips. The situation just seems to be getting more serious every week. Although it is now being built more than for a very long time, the need is greater than it has been for a very long time. Sweden is growing, and we are growing fast – faster than ever before. The challenges are many. Proposals for solutions hail in the debate. They are quite many and varied. It is part of the dilemma of housing policy. It is a complex web of causality. If we want to create good conditions for housing construction, measures must be taken in a wide range of areas. We are finally debating today a bill from the current government. The work on this bill began during the time of the Christian Democrats and the rest of the Alliance in the government, and it has now landed at the table of the Riksdag. It contains several important amendments to the Planning and Construction Act to make the planning and building permits process easier and more efficient, which is important when we currently have record-long construction processes. However, what I find remarkable in the bill is that it does not lead to more housing, and it even writes the government itself. There was a possibility, but the government showed a reluctance to fully define the deadline for assessing an application for a building permit-exempt measure, for example. Similarly, there was an unwillingness to grasp the so-called veto rights that property owners have regarding the expiry of the implementation period under Chapter 4. Section 39 of the Planning and Construction Act. Sweden has an almost acute housing shortage that inhibits growth and reduces individuals' freedom in terms of career choices and life choices. That the government then hesitates to allow the reform work to continue to gain ground, as the alliance government did, is regrettable and risks hampering today's very good housing growth. Mr President, I would like to From a growth and development perspective, it should also be in the municipality's interest that their processing be carried out promptly. Municipalities that carry out rapid handling of notification cases also acknowledge the development in their municipality. The Christian Democrats therefore believe that a deadline should be concrete and linked to sanctions. When you look at the variation in processing times today in the municipalities, it is clear that it would be justified to provide additional incentives or sanctions in order for the deadlines in the municipalities to be reasonable. One more thing that could have been observed in this proposal concerns the out-of-date detailed plans. They make it difficult or even impossible to make desirable changes. It is important to simplify the procedure with regard to older building rules, since it is often perceived as an obstacle to development, particularly in the case of older land distributions. We believe that the Government's proposal on the division of areas into real estate or on services, rights of way and similar provisions could have been cancelled after the completion of the implementation period and that this should be extended to the design of construction works and plots in order to increase the possibility of building boards in accordance with the wishes of the residents. Such a regime, combined with the proposed measures to change the classification of real estate, would make a stronger contribution to greater flexibility and freedom for municipalities, together with residents, to modernise and make better use of housing for already detailed areas. In this context, I would also like to take this opportunity to recall the decisions taken by Parliament regarding traffic noise guidelines, which stated 60 decibels as normal value and 65 decibels for student housing. This applies to values measured at façade. The Government must decide on a new decree as soon as possible in response to the announcement made by the Riksdag. That is why I would like to vote in favour of Amendment No 3.
i-e69b8958971e4c09-142	Mr President, I would like to Sweden must have more housing now. I'd say it's never been more important. Housing policy and the importance of more housing are one of Sweden's most important societal challenges, especially for the development and opportunities of municipalities. These are migration challenges, population growth in big cities, population decline in rural areas, studies, the labour market, growth and fiscal power. The list can be made long. When housing policy is discussed and debated in the general public debate, we all too often end up in a debate on particulars rather than a debate on the whole. There is often a debate in which experts in rather narrowly defined areas throw percentages, amortisation requirements, mortgages, legal clauses and square metres in each other's heads in a way that is incomprehensible to ordinary people. Of course, the growth aspect and the functioning of the labour market are important, but perhaps not the most important thing for the individual. Housing policy must be about opportunities for everyone – young and elderly, students, families with children and single people. It is about the life and content of the city, the district, the suburbs, the village and the neighbourhood. It is about building a country, building a society and building a community. It's about building a community that stays together. Accommodation is the foundation of everything. A functioning housing market creates enormous opportunities. Similarly, housing problems, housing structures and housing policy are also becoming a huge societal challenge and perhaps the biggest. The challenges on the Swedish housing market spill over into almost all policy areas. There are also no simple or individual solutions, but these are basic and long-term sound conditions and rules of play for increased housing construction across the board. The key to all of this is simplification and faster, simpler and cheaper. The Alliance government carried out extensive regulatory simplifications which are now one of the main reasons why we have the highest housing building in decades. At the same time, Mr President, we must never settle down. Therefore, it is crucial that we continue the simplification journey if we are to address current and future challenges in the residential area. The bill that we are now discussing, New steps for a more effective planning and construction law and greater legal certainty for operators of environmental noise, is part of this and stems entirely from the alliance government and not from the current government. I note that the parties which now form part of the red-green government base, jointly with the Swedish Democrats or separately, are opposed to almost all the regulatory simplifications proposed by the Alliance Government. However, speaking time does not allow me to go through all these examples. Similarly, it is clear that all the motions from the Alliance that are addressed in the report that we are discussing here and now and about which we will decide later today are about how we can proceed in different ways with the reform and simplification journey that the Alliance has begun. Mr President, I would like to I also note that the government parties now claim to agree with the importance of continuing regulatory simplification in housing and construction, although perhaps as usual – particularly on the part of the passive Minister for Housing Mehmet Kaplan – it is expressed in very unclear and passive terms. That's good, but it's not enough. We can see that the government has actually had to be dragged to everything, from more flexible noise regulations to the concessions imposed in the migration agreement, in terms of facilitating construction. When you ask questions in parliamentary debates, interpellations and written questions, the only answers that you get are references to investigations and directions that the Alliance has established. Once again, I can ask: Where are the new steps to be taken? Do you not have your own thoughts on the possibilities for simplification and no new proposals of your own? Mr President, I would like to What we are going to decide on today is good, but it is not enough. As the Red-Green Government, the management of major societal challenges, such as housing policy, is not the way forward for Sweden. It is not these messages, or rather the absence of them, that are needed. And it is not in this way that challenges are dealt with for individuals and for Sweden as a whole. Mr President, I would like to I am in favour of reservation 3 in the report.
i-e69b8958971e4c09-155	Mr President, I would like to We see a development of housing that can be expressed in two ways. One is that we have finally got the construction companies to deliver over 45 000 homes and that it has to do with the fact that the long-term conditions for this exist, both regularly and economically. The second is that far too few housing is still being built in view of the need and that more needs to be done to promote the construction that can be achieved quickly and at a low cost that fits the wallet of both those who will live in the homes and those who will build them. What we are seeing here are some of the last proposals that are a direct result of the efforts of the previous government, the Alliance, to simplify and improve the conditions for building more densely and sometimes in situations that are exposed to noise. This despite a stubborn opposition, open from the Left Party and probably whining from the Green Party, especially on the noise issue. Here we have announcements calling on the government to produce a new regulation with a higher allowed decibel number at façade than it has presented so far. This bill clears out the last pieces of the conflict between the Planning and Construction Act on the one hand and the Environmental Code on the other, which ensures that an operation, a company, does not subsequently suffer from injunctions if you are looking for a new and changed review of the business or if more housing is planned and built in the vicinity of the business. The Center Party welcomes this. It is beneficial both for those who need housing and for companies that offer jobs that allow the residents to pay the rent. I expect, Mr President, that there will soon also be proposals for a change in the administrative system in which the County Administrative Board's role as an appeal body will be transferred to the Land and Environment Courts. Thus, the efforts of the Alliance might be completed. It remains to be seen whether the current red-green government has something of its own or whether we have to wait until 2018, when the Alliance is again responsible for housing policy. Happily, in addition to this, there are some fellow messages in the form of announcements. The first is the result of a joint C- and KD-motion. Stronger demands with incentives for municipalities to deal with registration matters more quickly are one that all parties here except the Left Party have supported. This is therefore the case for buildings where all the permissions are completed or those where no building permit is required. For example, Attefallshus and extensions of residential buildings with roofing or other building permits are exempt. But it should be said to the government here and now that there are other proposals in the bill that aim to simplify and improve the implementation of such extensions. Mr President, I would like to We have here more and other announcements to the government to create more housing through densification and faster and simpler rules. How many such proposals and announcements are needed before Minister of Housing Kaplan and Prime Minister Löfven understand that the housing situation in many of the country's municipalities is acute and that it is high time for the government to act, and not just here in Parliament? Another opportunity is given today – I believe it is for the fourth time – for the Riksdag to achieve housing construction that can to some extent meet the crying need. It is by voting in favour of reservation 3 from the Center Party and the other parties in the Alliance that it is really possible to reconsider and change already adopted but untimely detailed plans so that more housing can be achieved. These proposals have been examined and have been on Parliament's table before, but obviously this is not something that attracts neither the left parties nor the Swedish Democrats. I find it completely incomprehensible. The proposal proposes that it should be possible for municipalities to change land breakdowns, property plans or property classification regulations. However, extending this right to an opportunity to change the design of construction works is evidently going too far. It may involve building on one floor, installing exterior lifts or changing the appearance of the facade in a renovation. All this means that construction companies prevent them from renovating, densifying and expanding. Mr President, I would like to I take every opportunity to debate housing policy. There should be no missed opportunity to press the government for the policies needed to prevent a sham development of housing prices due to insufficient construction. We do not manage to build the housing needed to meet the migration challenge, which includes successful integration by providing both housing and jobs for those who wish to live in our country. In view of the fact that on the one hand more is being built than before – it is among other things the Alliance's reforms and regulatory simplifications that have made the construction take off – and on the other hand that many more and more radical simplifications will be needed that create opportunities for more housing, it is strange that proposals from the red-green side are so scarce. I support the proposal in the report, which also includes a declaration to put pressure on municipalities to reduce their processing times for notification cases. I also call for the approval of reservation 3 by the Moderates, the Center Party and the Christian Democrats on a simplified procedure for municipalities to repeal provisions in an older detailed plan.
i-e69b8958971e4c09-171	Mr President, I would like to Today we are discussing the report New steps towards a more effective planning and construction law and greater legal certainty for operators of environmental noise. In there are a lot of reasonable balances and good proposals that the Left Party believes will facilitate and improve the management of municipalities. However, we have a significant objection. The proposed amendments to the environmental code on environmental noise mean that the licensing authority is less able to decide on stricter conditions for environmental noise due to the creation of a new dwelling in the environment. The Government states in the bill that it cannot be excluded that a consequence of the proposal for amendments to the environmental code may be that more people will be allowed to live and stay in noise-related environments and that the risk of inconvenience to human health due to environmental noise may to some extent increase. This clearly weakens the protection of people's environmental health, and it is questionable whether it is in line with the environmental objective of Good built environment. I think this is a misguided bill with the point in the wrong direction. As far as possible, the focus should be on developing models to reduce noise at source. To describe noise as a constant is not a very developmental perspective. Today, there are many exciting new ways to bring noise down at the source, something that should be put more effort into. It is these measures that are the most effective ways of creating better sound environments. We now run the risk of creating a regulatory framework that does not accelerate but, on the contrary, slows down such development. Many heavy referrals come with justified criticism of how the legislation is designed. In addition, the operators themselves have views on whether this construction will have the effect the government intends to have at all. I note that the Land and Environment Court of Appeal rejects the proposal because the Court of Justice fears that the proposals will not have the desired effect as the substantive rules of Chapter 2 of the Environmental Code do not have the desired effect. do not change. According to the Court, consideration of what is technically possible, economically reasonable and environmentally justified will also be the same with the proposed amendments as before. Furthermore, it is questionable whether it is appropriate to regulate in a detailed plan those issues which, on the one hand, have repercussions in an area outside the area which the provisions of the detailed plan are intended to regulate and, on the other hand, are expressed in a description of the plan which is not in itself a legally binding act and is therefore not, of course, taken into account in the granting of permits. There is a concern among several consultation bodies, including the Public Health Agency, that it will not be possible to make noise calculations with sufficient reliability to serve as a starting point for subsequent reviews under the Environmental Code. The Swedish Public Health Agency also believes that the protection interest on which the environmental code's health protection rules are based is not met. There is concern that the proposal may mean that in future a regulatory authority will not be able to require operators to take technically and economically feasible protective measures that are health-motivated to limit noise. It will be difficult to overcome miscalculations with the current regulatory framework that future research indicates. Interesting are also Swedavia AB's objections. They argue that this design does not serve as a protection for operators. Buildings built closer to an activity than is currently the case may have an impact on the operator's ability to operate, notwithstanding the fact that stricter conditions may not be laid down. The number of residents in the vicinity of an airport is important for the very admissibility of airport operations and the site testing that must always be carried out according to the environmental code. Several persons closer to airport activities may therefore affect the possibility of obtaining authorisation for an existing activity and of obtaining authorisation for an extended activity. According to Swedavia AB, the fact that stricter requirements that go beyond, for example, a detailed plan cannot be made subject to conditions could also lead to a stricter assessment by the review authority as regards the admissibility of the business itself than if additional precautions could have been laid down in terms of conditions. The Government states in the bill that there is a need for new provisions in the Environmental Code to protect the interests of operators as far as possible. I believe that it cannot be the only interest that the government defends without taking into account the long-term effects on technology development, the severe impact of noise on human health, the environmental objective of a good built-up environment and how we in a future-oriented housing market create incentives that create better and healthier living environments for people in the long term. Delaying in defensive regulations that do not set out a way forward for the development of noise-reducing products and activities risks being counterproductive. In the end, people's deteriorating health and living environment always cost more than refraining from putting pressure on them to achieve improvements. With regard to the regulation of local authorities' processing times for notification cases, I would like to say the following: like the majority of the committees, I think it is important for an individual to have a notification case dealt with as soon as possible. I have supported the Government's proposal to authorise the Government to provide for a deadline for the municipality's processing time. In the bill, the Government has stated that some consultation bodies have called for incentives or sanctions to ensure that the deadlines are actually complied with by the municipalities but that the issue has not been dealt with in the legislative case. The Government further argues that it intends to monitor the application of the rules and to take action if it is found that the deadlines are not being complied with. I therefore believe that there is no reason for Parliament to take any initiative in this matter by means of an announcement. In this context, I would like to stress that although legal time limits can in many cases contribute to faster handling of, for example, notification cases, it is important to retain some flexibility in the regulatory framework so as not to unduly limit local authorities' room for manoeuvre. Otherwise, there is a risk that the municipalities will in practice be completely deprived of the possibility of deciding for themselves which matters are most important to prioritise. We are facing a huge housing shortage, and then there may be reason to make the priority that benefits the most people. In the light of these considerations, I would like to endorse reservations 1 and 2.
i-e69b8958971e4c09-188	Mr President, I would like to Distinguishing the Left's housing policy, to the extent that there is one, and characteristic of Nooshi Dadgostar's speech here is not all that one is active and positive for, but all that one is negative to and against. I have enjoyed going through the Left Party's housing policy movements, partly during the current parliamentary year and partly during previous parliamentary years. There is not a single measure aimed at obtaining more housing. The only thing that would be in favour of anything, if I were to show good will as usual, is that we are now in favour of the building subsidies that the government wants to introduce and which it wants to fund by reducing the ROT deduction, which, by the way, is hitting the construction sector. I would like Nooshi Dadgostar to list here all the things that you in the Left Party are in favour of with regard to measures to increase construction and all the proposals that you have put forward, if you have put forward any, that are about increasing housing construction in the country. I have reviewed your activities in this House and the activities of Nooshi Dadgostar as a left-wing spokesperson for housing policy, and all the questions and interpellations have been about actually making it more difficult, for example, for housing to be rented out and for construction to be made more difficult. And I note that the whole speech now really was about being against the small step forward that this report is about. Once again, I would like to have a list – and Nooshi Dadgostar has taken time for a list – and a review of all the measures proposed by the Left Party, which are in favour of increased housing construction in Sweden.
i-e69b8958971e4c09-192	Mr President, I would like to I'm glad Mats Green would rather talk about Left Party politics than about the bill, which I thought we were here for. That is why my speech focused on the proposal that the government is now putting on the table. In this respect, I can see that there is a great deal of relief and balance that may well lead to more housing. I still want us not to stop in this situation but to think back. Mats Green's party has been in charge of this country for eight years, and we saw an unprecedentedly poor housing policy over the eight years. What the government is now getting on its knees is a shortage of hundreds of thousands of homes. The situation is acute in Sweden's big cities, and that after eight years of bourgeois housing policy. One might have thought that Mats Green should be humble and say: We did not reach all the way. We did not get the number of homes needed. The need was much greater than what we received. We need a change of direction. Investment levels in the housing sector are far too low. But Mats Green does not, but he wants to continue on the same track again, which gave us incredibly few new homes and a stock that needs to be renovated. We are trying to focus on what will lead to new housing. We are making the biggest investment in Sweden for 20 years in the budget that the Left Party and the Government put on the Riksdag table. For such a long time there has not been such a great effort. We provide support for renovations to municipalities that deliver plans quickly and efficiently and also provide support for renovation.
i-e69b8958971e4c09-196	Mr President, I would like to Nooshi Dadgostar did not come up with a single left-wing proposal for more housing, not a single proposal at all. The only thing on the Left side is to problematize and comment in general. That is not an answer when you are out in residential areas discussing this. It is not an answer when I go back to my own old birth area, the outside area Öxnahaga in Huskvarna. That is not really the answer I can give people, but I must have concrete proposals for more housing. Again, the Left Party does not therefore have a single concrete proposal of its own for more housing. Nooshi Dadgostar has not made a single proposal on behalf of his party during his time as a spokesperson for the Left. I find it rather remarkable. I have gone through all the examples of proposals made and implemented by the Alliance in recent years. I have also gone through all the proposals of the Social Democrats, the Green Party, the Left Party and the Swedish Democrats and can see that even the Green Party has been in favour of certain proposals put forward by the Alliance Government. But there is one party which, without exception, has been against everything, and that is the Left Party. As I said, in your housing policy movements there are no proposals for increased housing construction, but there are only general problems with the challenges that arise when there is too little housing. I think we are all in favour of this, and that is why we are having this debate. In Nooshi Dadgostar's speech on the report we are discussing, I do not hear any proposals from the Left Party for more housing, but what Nooshi Dadgostar says is that the Left Party accepts the current proposals and that they may lead to more housing. However, there is a difference between accepting and passive behaviour and actively making positive proposals of one's own.
i-e69b8958971e4c09-201	Mr President, I would like to I appreciate the research that Mats Green has done on the various exercises. It is interesting that he spends a lot of time on this. Your policy, Mats Green, meant that you took out all the money from the utilities and financed your tax cuts with them instead of building housing with the capital that the tenants had paid in. You removed the interest subsidy and investment aid that led to many more rentals in the early 2000s. As a result, the construction of housing was rocking. After eight years of your policy, Mats Green, we have a shortage of hundreds of thousands of homes. Then it would have been there to be insightful and say: It did not work. All the fun ideas I had didn't work out. We need to reconsider. We need to create a new housing policy programme for Sweden. That is what we are now putting on Parliament's table. We are making the biggest investment in housing policy in 20 years. When was the last time you got to say that, Mats Green? The Left Party has been the driving force in this. Not only do we target companies, but the municipalities that are effective in their plan offices will also receive support. We are making a massive effort, and we will have to come back to whether we got the specified number of homes. We're trying to relate to reality, Mats Green. That's what we're supposed to influence. It's nice that you want to throw forward ideas here, but with your politics nothing has happened on the ground. In reality, the important thing is to get a home to live in. The ideas here don't create anything.
i-e69b8958971e4c09-207	Mr President, I would like to On behalf of the Liberal Party, I shall begin by calling for the approval of Amendment No 5. For time winning, I do not agree to the other reservations, but we support them on the substance. The Liberals welcome the regulatory simplifications proposed by this bill to make the planning and building permits process faster and easier. It is absolutely necessary when there will soon be half a million homes missing in Sweden. However, we should be aware that the proposals put forward will in no way lead to more housing. The only time that the government makes a proposal to the Riksdag is therefore with proposals that the government itself says will not lead to housing. It's amazing. The most important simplification is, of course, the relief of environmental noise. I am pleased that the Green Party, which in our time in power sounded like the Left Party, has had to give up on this point and listen to the Alliance. We also have an announcement, and I expect the government to return because a majority in Parliament wants to go further than the bill does. We in the People's Party Liberals are also pleased to get through our request to link incentives and sanctions to rules on municipal processing times. There is a need for carrots for those municipalities that handle their PBL cases, but sanctions are also needed for those municipalities that do not. We Liberals in the People's Party have already budgeted for this type of regulation in our budget motion. We look forward to the government also doing so in the future. We in the People's Party Liberals have four reservations about what we think is necessary and good for Sweden. The first reservation concerns the simplified procedure for the cancellation of plots of land. In our opinion, additional provisions are needed. The Government proposes in its proposal that road keepers of public roads, such as the Swedish Transport Administration, should be included in consultation. But people also use other roads, such as walking and cycling paths. However, the Government does not believe that these should be included in the consultation process, but believes that simplified procedures can be used precisely for walking and cycling routes. We find it regrettable that the Green Party agrees to such a deal. We believe that the simplified procedure should not be used if the repeal of a plan provision means that the scope for cyclists and pedestrians is adversely affected. The second reservation, and the only one I support, concerns the publication of market instructions. Lack of transparency in land management is a factor that makes it more difficult to implement construction projects. We have supported the Government's proposal, which means that the rules on how to report land and exploitation agreements are to be presented during the detailed planning process are coordinated and that the requirements for transparency regarding local authorities' work on land management are strengthened. In our opinion, the proposals put forward are not sufficient. In order to make it easier for developers and others who build to obtain information about the municipalities' future land instructions, PBL must introduce a requirement for municipalities to publish in advance planned initiatives for land guides both on the municipality's website and in printed media. In order for more actors to be able to register interest and to increase competition for the land instructions, the information should be available in both Swedish and English. It would have been good if the government too wanted to introduce this. The third reservation concerns the use of digital technologies. The People's Party Liberals agree with the Advisory Board on Growth, which has pointed out that there is a great potential to exploit in digitalisation, especially with regard to e-services in PBL cases. It is an untapped resource that could make it easier and faster to get PBL files through. The Swedish Agency for Growth and the People's Party Liberals believe that increasing the use of digital technology in PBL cases would contribute to a more citizen-friendly information dissemination process. It would also help to simplify the process, make it more legally secure, shorten processing times and increase public transparency. In addition, making it easier for the public to follow digitally what happens in planning and construction cases, appeals that are unfounded or due to misunderstandings are likely to decrease. We therefore believe that the government needs to come back with proposals regarding the digitisation of PBL cases. We believe that it is a way forward to see digitalisation as a resource. The fourth reservation by the People's Party Liberals concerns the accounting of noise calculations. As several consultation bodies have pointed out, it is currently unclear how the reporting of noise calculations in a plan description or a building permit according to PBL should be relevant for the assessment under the environmental code. Much suggests that this uncertainty will persist even if Boverket or the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency produces more information about what applies. For an operator, this is likely to mean that there will continue to be uncertainty as to what requirements apply to environmental noise, which is not good when we have a great need for it to be built much more. For a person who has a building, this may mean that the requirements for noise in his or her own environment will change. Many homeowners will then appeal detailed plans even though it would not have been necessary. This leads to many unnecessary processes. We Liberals in the People's Party wish that the government had listened to us in this regard. We welcome the bill as a whole but, like the government, we believe that it will not lead to more housing. We find it strange that the government is putting forward proposals that will not lead to more housing. We Liberals in the People's Party are clear that regulatory simplification is not enough. We need radical and far-reaching reforms in the housing market in order to solve the housing crisis we are in. That is why we have launched a completely new housing policy which we believe is the way forward. We look forward to debating these issues if there are more proposals from the government. The Liberals have a completely new housing policy, and we have many views on the residential area. But I really do not know what Mehmet Kaplan or the Social Democrats think, because they sit quietly at each meeting, write nothing in the newspapers and have no views whatsoever. It would be good if the government put forward proposals for more housing.
i-e69b8958971e4c09-231	Mr President, I would like to I support the CU3 report by the Committee on Civil Liberties. It is good that the government continues to review PBL in order to streamline the law. It is important that legal certainty is ensured and not ignored in the case of simplifications. The changes proposed by the Government include simplifying the procedure for so-called plots of land and coordinating the rules on how to describe land and exploitation agreements. The Government also provides an authorisation to regulate the municipality's processing time for a notification matter. The committee also proposes an announcement to the government to link some form of incentives or sanctions to future rules on municipal processing times. It is also proposed to ensure legal certainty for operators when examining a new or amended permit for environmentally hazardous activities in cases where housing has been added near the establishment. These are good and important changes on which we are expected to vote in this House. However, I would like to take this opportunity, especially after previous speakers have spoken, to refer once again to the report by the Swedish Construction Industries Group last spring. It states that only changes and simplifications in the Planning and Construction Act do not lead to increased housing construction or more housing, which we all agree is really needed today. The Swedish Construction Industries questioned our target of 250 000 before presenting our proposal on investment aid for housing, which they naturally criticised. It is one way to move forward without simplification in the PBL. They also questioned the Alliance's policy of going out and promising 300 000 homes to be achieved, because simplification alone in the PBL will not lead to that. The report showed that if the alliance policy pursued over eight years continues, there will be between 140 000 and 170 000 homes. It is remarkable that alliance members are standing here in the speaker's seat beating their chests for eight years of failed housing policy. Seriously-- what if, think again! I agree with the report's point that more people need to be asked for housing in order to achieve the necessary levels of construction. There's a government proposal. Just look at the budget, Robert Hannah – you who do not hear what the government and Social Democracy want in housing policy. There are a number of suggestions. We discussed them last night in the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs when we looked at the various points. What, then, is the opposition's proposal for more people to be able to demand housing and to bring down the cost of housing, which is a prerequisite for getting more people to demand? I will stick to the Planning and Construction Act and not get caught up in housing policy, which we are not going to discuss today. The other day I visited a renovation in a block next door. After their review, it became clear that one must have respect for each other's different inputs and views if one is to have an effective planning process. It is very easy to find problems to hang on to and get a long and lengthy process for all parties. But the important thing is that you step out of the trenches and understand each other's entrances – the views of the developer, the county administrative board, the city, the municipality, the tenant-owner, neighbor and other stakeholders. One must understand each other's objections and discuss them seriously and show respect for one another. That's the most important thing to get a real plan process. I have been discussing this issue with professors at KTH. This is their main point too: one must get out of the trenches and see the democratic process that PBL actually is. We do not build and rebuild individual buildings, but we build communities. There are several interested parties. Mr President, I would like to I will stop there before I start too much discussion.
i-e69b8958971e4c09-243	Mr President, I would like to Leif Nysmed quoted Sweden's Construction industries and possibly also himself when he said there was no need for more regulatory simplification. It's a rather strange statement. Two weeks ago, members of the Civil Affairs Committee met the Swedish Municipalities and County Council's preparation for community building, and Leif was there. The representatives of the municipalities then clearly described what needs to be done, and we listened. The alliance was as usual stupid, because we are the ones who talk and deliver the answers while the government parties sit quietly. I will quote what the Swedish Municipalities and Landsting's preparation for the construction of the urban area wishes to see: a generous interpretation of the detailed plan requirement, so that, in more cases, measures can be examined directly in the building permit, even if strict interpretations would require a detailed plan. ..................................................... Isn't that a simple rule, Leif Nysmed? Is it not such a proposal that is part of the reservation that exists from the Christian Democrats, the Center Party and the Moderates and is about making simplifications in the detailed plans already adopted? Would it not be time for the government parties to listen to Sweden's Municipalities and Landsting?
i-e69b8958971e4c09-248	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your post, Ola Johansson! I just want to correct you a little. I have not said that there is no need for more simplifications of the rules. It may well need more. The law must be constantly reviewed from the point of view of reality. During this autumn we have had a reality that has changed the rules of the game for us. Of course, more simplification is needed, especially in a crisis situation such as today. What I'm saying is, to get housing started, more people need to be able to ask for housing. Construction companies do not build empty dwellings. They don't build homes that people can't buy or rent. It's pretty simple fundamentals. It was based on what the price situation looked like early this winter, when the report came, but since then the prices have shrunk even more. The base should have fallen further if it is not possible to reduce the cost of housing construction. Regardless of what we think of investment aid, it has changed the debate. I meet a lot of builders, considering I'm from that business. From discussing how many people are going to appeal a building permit or a detailed plan, which I talked to them about last autumn, today is a lot about how to squeeze costs without investment support. It is interesting that we have had a change in the discussion and a downward pressure on prices for what it costs to build. I believe that it has been useful and that it will be needed further in the future. How do we reduce costs so that residents can demand the housing that will be built in the future?
i-e69b8958971e4c09-254	Mr President, I would like to I thank Leif Nysmed for his reply. Price pressure is not, from experience, the immediate result of talking about subsidies. If we stop quoting Leif Nysmed, there is another quote coming from Sweden's Construction industries. They say that subsidies do not lead to increased housing construction. I wish Leif Nysmed could quote the whole of their report. There is another correction, or possibly a different choice of words. I guess it's not the demand for housing that's missing. Demand needs to be resolved by building more, by creating better mobility in the housing market and by ensuring that the required housing is available. I will continue to quote the Swedish Municipalities and County Councils. They say, "It must be possible to use buildings that are not designed for housing, even if the detailed plan specifies other purposes. In order to make it possible to build and use buildings faster, the municipality should also be able to grant temporary building permits and then develop the detailed plan that is needed afterwards. ..................................................... We agree, Leif Nysmed and I, that it is important that we now build many homes quickly. But my questions are: Why doesn't the government do anything? Why are there no proposals? Why do the government parties say no when several of the alliance parties are proposing these very changes and are asking for an announcement that puts pressure on the government to develop opportunities to simplify, shorten and speed up the planning that the municipalities so badly need?
i-e69b8958971e4c09-259	Mr President, I would like to I would just like to point out something about an issue that you are raising, Ola: there is a difference between the need for housing and the demand for housing. Many of the people in need of housing today cannot ask for what is on the market. There's the big problem. For there to be housing that you can ask for, the price picture also needs to be different in this country. There we have to work, and there are many different paths. There is no alexander hem that will solve the whole problem. As I said, I share your view that there are simplifications that need to be made in the PBL, but legal certainty must not be ignored in the case of simplifications. It is also important to bear in mind that when we only talk about simplifications that would be the solution, we also describe it as a problem, which means that many people bury themselves in trenches when it comes to planning processes. They say, "This is what I want to do. Those are evil, because they don't want to do what I do. I say: get out of this, and look at the democratic process! Take advantage of each other's opportunities! Please visit AMF Fastigheter and Gallerian and get an account of how they have treated the county administrative board and the city at work and how effective they have been in this.
i-e69b8958971e4c09-262	Mr President, I would like to We are here today to debate the civil committee's report CU3, new steps towards a more effective planning and construction law and greater legal certainty for operators of environmental noise. I agree with the report. It is a report which deals with two different issues. This involves, on the one hand, ensuring legal certainty for operators when examining a new or amended permit for environmentally hazardous activities in cases where housing is added in the vicinity of the business and, on the other hand, amendments to the Planning and Construction Act to make the planning and building permits process easier and more efficient. We think that's a good thing.
i-e69b8958971e4c09-264	Mr President, I would like to I find it a bit entertaining to have been a spokesperson for housing policy for the People's Party over the past year and to see how the Green Party has become perhaps the most flip-flopping party ever when it comes to housing policy. When you were not in power, you were opposed to almost all the regulatory simplifications. You said no to, in principle, all the regulatory simplifications put forward by the Alliance. You were also against subsidies. Now that you're coming to power, you're all of a sudden in favor of regulatory simplification. You say yes to things you said no to when the Alliance was in power and proposed them. You also say yes to subsidies. Things that you thought were really bad in the past, you think all of a sudden is great now. What surprises me, however, is how the Green Party can support regulatory changes which mean that bicycle and pedestrians will have a reduced opportunity. What the People's Party reserves its reservations about in the bill is consultation on the simplified procedure for the division of plots when it comes to bicycle paths and pedestrian paths. The Green Party believes that we should make it much easier than before to take new roads. But apparently we're going to make things worse for people who want to ride and walk. The Green Party does not intend to apply a simplified procedure when it comes to cycling routes and walking paths, but they intend to apply it when it comes to car routes. To me, that sounds paradoxical. The only thing that seems to be in the Green Party's housing policy is national interests. You want the whole of Sweden to be a national interest. Emma Hult, who is standing next to me, has even exercised that the whole of Vättern should be a national interest – when we soon lack 500 000 homes in Sweden. I find that unreasonable. Why are you defending cars instead of defending pedestrians and cyclists? On behalf of the People's Party, the Liberals, we think that this is completely unreasonable.
i-e69b8958971e4c09-269	Mr President, I would like to The environmental party is apparently the party that has flipped. Flip flop is for me a shoe. I don't quite understand your parable, but I suppose you mean we've changed our position on many issues. That is exactly what the People's Party has also done. You have changed your mind on many of the issues that you pursued during the two previous terms of office. We are not here today to debate the budget or the investments that the government chooses to make – the investments that will generate more housing and housing that are not being built today. It is housing for those who are not currently in a position to ask for housing. What you are saying is exactly right: in general, we are against subsidies. This is not the way we are going to build Sweden. Today, however, we face the fact that 300 000 young people involuntarily live at home. There's no housing being built as they can demand. The only thing that turns out to have worked when you look back-- we are also in favour of research and statistics-- is the stimulation of the construction of these very homes. That is why we are also prepared to make this investment in housing for those who today are not in a position to demand small, climate-smart and cheaper rentals. That's the subsidy we've agreed to. Robert Hannah says we'd like to make things worse for the bikers. I do not know how carefully you have read the report, but, as it says, it is about the possibility of a simpler procedure at this stage. We also say that it is not necessary to use it for the different modes of transport. We also refer to the fact that there is work going on to review this. So what is included now does not necessarily mean that it is the only thing that will be included in the future.
i-e69b8958971e4c09-273	Mr President, I would like to We in the People's Party have not changed our housing policy. On the other hand, we have come to the realization that regulatory simplification is not enough. We must go further, and we must have radical and far-reaching reforms in the housing market. I am proud that the People's Party as the only parliamentary party in Sweden today has the courage to say it out loud. As far as subsidies are concerned, your party has previously opposed this to housing construction. Go back and look at your own housing movements and you will see it! You beat your chest and say: We make the world's biggest bet! I hear words that are said massively in the debate. If you look at the target you can see that it is actually 20 000 SEK per dwelling that it is about. Maybe it's enough for a microwave and a dishwasher. I do not think it is a massive venture at all. I want to get back to the question, because you're so evasive and you don't want to answer it. The proposal means that we have a simplified procedure for building more roads. That's what the Green Party says yes to. The People's Party says that we do not want this system, but that we want it to also look at how to simplify cycle paths and footpaths. We should not just build roads and not make it easier for bike paths. There is somewhere a choice made by the Green Party: you do not want to make it easier for pedestrians, and you do not want to make it easier for cyclists. You want to make things easier for cars. You're also saying you'll come back. But the legislation means that there is no need to consult municipalities if it is a question of cycling routes or walking paths. This also means that consultation with authorities is not necessary if it is cycle paths or walking paths that are included, but it is necessary if it is car routes. You should talk to Trafikverket, but you should not talk to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency when it comes to walking paths. I think it is unreasonable somewhere for the Green Party to defend the cars in front of pedestrians. Perhaps it should be acknowledged on your part that you do.
i-e69b8958971e4c09-278	Mr President, I would like to What the Green Party chooses to do is not to support the People's Party's motion. That's what we choose to do. We don't choose the car over the bike. You know very well, Robert Hannah, that in government, you don't work by standing behind motions. You work by influencing ministers and government parties. I share your view that bicycle is a traffic type that we must favour. It is just as I said to your former colleague Nina Lundström when we stood here about a year ago and talked about bike issues: It's nice that the People's Party also thinks that those issues are important, so let's move on with them. You mentioned in your first speech my motion on Vättern as a national interest in drinking water. Nevertheless, I would like to touch on it when I get the chance here, because it will probably not be debated anyway. You think it's unreasonable that drinking water should be a national interest. You can talk to your colleagues in Jönköping who are very concerned by these issues. Water is one of the most important conditions for life on earth. I find it remarkable that you are referring to this as an obstacle to housing construction. Yes, we can build homes, but if we don't have any drinking water, it's not worth living there.
i-e69b8958971e4c09-281	Mr President, I would like to It is remarkable that the representative of the party in the Red-Green Government who is responsible for housing policy and that more housing is being built in Sweden has the shortest contribution here today. It is said that it accepts the changes proposed here. It is perhaps not quite what most people would classify as offensive or active. We can also note that the Environmental Party in Sweden's municipalities and in the Swedish Parliament has been good at being against all housing construction and measures for increased housing construction historically. The only areas where more housing has been sought have been at the country's airports. We do not have the passive Minister for Housing Mehmet Kaplan here today, but I can sometimes raise my eyebrows when you debate him in the country and he explains that the government has pushed through flexible noise legislation. I usually say it's the Alliance that's run you over with and got through. You've been against it all along, but now you accept it. Again, it's not to be very active. I note that the Green Party has historically proved to be against most things. Now that you are also sitting with ministerial responsibility, you accept it, to use Emma Hult's words. It is not very offensive or active, Mr President. I would like to conclude by asking: when are you going to be for something? And what is the Green Party for when it comes to further regulatory simplifications to facilitate housing construction and construction in general throughout Sweden? Give it up and give it up. Now tell me what you're for.
i-e69b8958971e4c09-287	Mr President, I would like to The fact that I would have said that I accept is exciting, because there is nothing about it in the speech that I read in principle from within for about 40 seconds. I'm not sure when I would have said that I would accept. What I said is that we support the report based on the proposal presented by the government. You and I spent the last term together in the majority of Jönköping Municipality, Mats Green. As far as I can remember, I did not say no to any of the decisions in the City Planning Board where we pushed to increase construction in Jönköping. Jönköping is one of the municipalities that have built the most rental apartments lately, and I take some of the credit for that. In the municipalities where we have said no, we are almost exclusively in opposition, and they are in opposition either, they are not able to influence the final product presented on the table. If you are not satisfied with that final product, you do not vote for it.
i-e69b8958971e4c09-290	Mr President, I would like to It's possible that Emma Hult didn't say that she would accept. She said that the report was supported. Nor is it very active for a party that has the Ministry of Housing in the Red-Green Government. To support is not offensive or active. Then I can also find it interesting that you get it for a Jönköping debate. Certainly, the then moderate-led Jönköping municipality was one of the municipalities that built the most residential apartments in the country during the last term. I am happy and proud of that, because I was then the chairman of the municipal council and also led the coalition that Emma Hult was part of. We must congratulate each other on a good job there. But when you look out over Sweden in general and look at activities in the Swedish parliament from the Green Party, it leaves everything else to be desired. I would like to return to my original question. The Green Party has been against everything and accepts or supports what is now being presented. When should the Environmental Party be for anything when it comes to housing construction and construction in Sweden in general? I would like an example of that.
i-e69b8958971e4c09-293	Mr President, I would like to I am not going to list examples that I do not have a basis for. I think it's exciting if we have an Jönköping debate. I guess it's a good idea if we take that opportunity. The debate here is usually about Stockholm, and I think it is a bit mocked. I might add, if Mats wants to take credit for the construction because he was the Chairman of the Municipal Executive Board, that it was the Center Party that led both the City Planning Committee and has the municipal councillor's post that pushes for the construction issues. I would like to thank the Center Party for that cooperation rather than the Moderates. If any should have a credit, it is Ann-Ann-Mari Nilsson for the work she has carried out and Anders Samuelsson in the City Planning Board. When it comes to the fact that we would be against construction, I would say that we are sitting in many municipalities in Sweden, and there it is being built. What we must also not forget is that what is being built today in Sweden is not being built because we here in Stockholm are saying that it will be built or, for that matter, because we are changing the legislation in a certain direction. Construction takes place in municipalities on behalf of municipalities and on the initiative of municipalities, and we will encourage this. We have a joint responsibility, Mats, to get the municipalities moving so that they build what they are supposed to. The Planning and Construction Act has worked well for a long period of time both when you have built a lot and when you have built a little, and I think it will continue to do so. If you want to continue to believe that it is regulatory simplifications that will solve the housing shortage, I'm a little worried. But at the same time, I'm glad you're not in government.
i-e69b8958971e4c09-297	Mr President, I would like to We are here to discuss a bill presented by the government. We can see that the committee is broadly unanimous in addition to two proposals coming from the Alliance, which have made common cause. This debate has proved to be a bit of a general debate on housing policy. I can see that, in view of the migration we have had, especially in the last ten years, the Alliance was totally lacking in foresight during the time they ruled. For eight years we have been constantly talking about regulatory simplifications, like that it could solve the housing shortage instead of having regulated immigration to cope with population growth and keep it in pace with construction in Sweden. It continues to argue that regulatory simplification is the solution to the housing crisis today and has come up with two proposals. One of these proposals is supported by us, together with the alliance parties, and we therefore condemn the government's proposals on this issue. As far as the second proposal is concerned, we condemn it together with the government. Since it is the Swedish Democrats who are wave champions in the Riksdag, it is also we who decide when it is put at its head. One proposal is to force municipalities to introduce a form of incentive to manage building permits within a reasonable period of time. The second proposal, which has been adopted by the Alliance as a matter of urgency, seeks to circumvent detailed plans in order to speed up proposals in order to create construction in planned areas where the detailed plan has been drawn up. As I said, it feels like a hasty proposal from the Alliance in order to solve the migration policy situation that we are facing in Sweden. It's not the way I think we should plan the communities. It is not in this way that the Swedish Democrats believe that we are creating good conditions for building societies in the future. The Alliance is keen to beat its chest, and it believes that the increase that we have actually seen in construction has to do with their regulatory simplifications. At the same time, we see that the trend of increased construction follows the rise of stock markets and socio-economic improvements for citizens. This enables them to buy themselves, first and foremost, a tenant-owner, a villa or a terraced house. The question is really how much the simplifications have contributed at the end of the day. I am thinking about how the Alliance and, for that matter, the government has planned to deal with the increased migration to Sweden of 190 000 people in 2015 and up to 170 000 people in 2016, according to forecasts. In addition, there is the immigration of relatives. The question is whether the Alliance, together with the government, should support a new million-dollar programme to have the opportunity to give those people somewhere to live here in Sweden, instead of living in tent camps or gymnasiums. It is the only solution I can see to a housing crisis in Sweden. It is not a proposal from the Swedish Democrats. However, that is what I assume will be the government's proposal in the future. But the Alliance must also support it because they have now said yes to increased migration to Sweden.
i-e69b8958971e4c09-306	Mr President, I would like to It was quick to decide to take a line. I reacted when Roger Hedlund said it was a quick proposal. He gave various reasons and speculated on why. This was investigated in the investigation A simpler planning process. I think it was already 2011 or 2012. The proposal was prepared, was on a legislative referral and was discussed in committee during the last parliamentary term. I have full respect for the fact that Roger Hedlund was not present during that time, but he has fellow party members who were. They took a stand for their party and said no to this. This was not just about this proposal. It was also about giving the municipalities the opportunity to decide for themselves when a detailed plan needs to be drawn up and also the possibility to delegate the adoption of a detailed plan to a committee or municipal board. But all three proposals were rejected by the Swedish Democrats. This meant that part of the simplification policy of the then government fell. This makes me a little unsure of the attitude of the Swedish democrats. Today, we are discussing the role of municipalities in the interpretation and application of the Planning and Construction Act, among other things. We want to make simplifications that the Swedish Democrats are against. Does Roger Hedlund think that municipalities should have any role whatsoever in planning and construction and survey planning? Or should we have a government housing policy where the government decides where to build it and how to design buildings?
i-e69b8958971e4c09-310	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Ola Johansson for the question and for the reply to my speech. It is true that it is a well-established proposal in that the suspension of detailed plans has been investigated. I'm sorry if I wasn't clear. However, I believe that a detailed plan is being circumvented by allowing the village committees to decide on the matter in each individual case. This means that changes in society are taking place at the forefront. We believe that this process is important. It gives an overall picture of the situation when a detailed plan falls or expires and a new one should therefore be adopted. In this way you can get a complete picture of how the social picture changes instead of changes in the social image coming into small individual cases. We believe that instead of being proactive in housing policy, you are now in crisis. Looking forward means managing population development and building as the population increases. But you make it possible for rapid changes in society.
i-e69b8958971e4c09-314	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Roger Hedlund for his reply. What I said was more of a matter of fact-finding than a question. But the question I put to the end of the story was not answered by Roger Hedlund. I'm gonna get back to it. Roger Hedlund says this will be a way to bypass a detailed plan. This could be an area that was planned in detail a long time ago, perhaps in the 70s or 80s. There may be a need for changes, for a review of the social situation in the area and the run-down houses, for densification, for building on a floor – as I mentioned in my speech – and perhaps putting an exterior lift, on which Caroline Szyber has an excellent photo. This is made impossible if changes in a detailed plan are not made. And making changes in a zoning plan takes a long time. It opposes Roger Hedlund and those who feel the same way as he does in this particular case. I am very surprised, perhaps more than the square position of the red-green parties. I repeat my question. Should I interpret the resistance to letting the municipalities decide for themselves that the Swedish Democrats want a government housing policy that takes responsibility for housing and planning away from the municipalities?
i-e69b8958971e4c09-319	Mr President, I would like to Municipal self-determination in Sweden is well established. All parties here in Parliament agree that municipal self-determination should be strong. It's obvious. As we see it, the possibilities for making changes in the detailed plan are good enough today. The important thing is that you have anchoring. For example, decisions on a revised detailed plan and similar should be taken in the municipal council and not, as proposed by the Alliance, in other councils. All parties should be given the opportunity to participate in the process. In this way, decisions are well anchored among citizens and voters. All the simplification rules proposed by Ola Johansson are a form of desperation in a situation where forward planning in housing policy is completely lacking. The population is growing so rapidly that it is unable to build at the required pace. There is also a lack of finances to build housing. Then it is not the right way to start changing the democratic conditions for building a society and for how we shape the housing market and society in the municipalities. It is important, then, to create just forward planning in the housing market by having regulated immigration to Sweden.
i-e69b8958971e4c09-323	Mr President, I would like to The most commonly used word in Roger Hedlund's speech and in the change of line was the word haste. You said that almost all the time, Roger Hedlund. If it was something that was rushed, it was your knowledge of what this bill contains. The Liberals have not raised a joint motion with the Christian Democrats, the Center Party and the Moderates. We have raised four reservations of our own. There is no common alliance policy in the bill. Nevertheless, you spoke for four minutes in the speaker's chair about the Alliance and the Alliance's common policy. It's not in this bill. The Liberals have put forward their own policy. It may be difficult for you to see it because we have reserved ourselves on the same point. But it's completely different content. When the Center Party and the Christian Democrats were exercising on the detailed plan clause, the People's Party was exercising on consultation and simplified procedure with regard to cycle paths and walking paths. That is also what I spoke about in my speech and in a reply against the Green Party. You haven't even read about what you say in the speaker's chair. That is quite speaking for your entire policy. It works a little like you put a finger in the air and think a little. It is dangerous to pursue politics according to popular opinion. The Green Party may have flipped in political matters. But you are flipping over every political issue in every political debate. I never know what you think. It's kind of like when a new pope is elected. You're going into a room. Then comes the air. And when you come out again, you suddenly have a new opinion that no one ever knew you had. Why are you not well prepared for this debate? And why are you doing this flip-floping? What is your housing policy?
i-NehRQvNRihNfXPMuT7EvuF	Mr President, I would like to Thanks for the questions, Robert Hannah! Of course we can get caught up in technicalities and formalities if you feel like it. What exists is a joint text from the committee supported by five parties. That text will also be the committee's position. Of course there are various proposals from the parties. They form the basis of the committee's common position. However, when we debate in this House, it is the committee's joint decision that we decide on. I think it's quite simple, but of course you can get stuck in formalities, as I feel you do. We can come up with a lot of different housing policy proposals. I just described from the speaker's office that proposals can be made for regulatory simplifications, for incentives against municipalities that do not maintain processing times for building permits and the like. It makes a difference, I think everyone can agree, but the difference is not decisive. The crucial difference is to have forward planning in the housing market and to have regulated immigration. It is a bit comical when we stand here discussing various proposals while at the same time the Alliance, the Government and the Left Party say yes to receiving 190 000 people in 2015 and up to 170 000 people in 2016, without having any concrete proposals on how to get housing for all these people.
i-e69b8958971e4c09-333	Mr President, I would like to Roger Hedlund says it's technicalities and formalities that the People's Party didn't think what you said we thought. We have never exercised on detailed planning rules. We were not part of the Christian Democrats' and Center Party's movements that you claimed we were. The alliance consists of four parties. If not all four parties have exercised together, that is not actually the opinion of the People's Party either. I find it remarkable that the honourable Member has such a low level of knowledge. It is enough to read p. 23 and 24 to see that there are two different exercises. Claiming that we're bringing down the Alliance doesn't make any sense. We do not condemn the Alliance at all, because we have not exercised in common. As far as the substance of the matter is concerned, it is clear that the Swedish Democrats have no housing policy at all. You can't answer any question. You're just talking about it being regulated immigration. I would remind you that we already have regulated immigration. Again, it is a question of a lack of knowledge. Not everyone can come to Sweden. For example, an asylum examination is carried out. I have no news from the Swedish Democrats. Where are people going to live? What are we gonna build? How are we gonna build? When are we going to build? I'm sure everyone agrees that it's going to be built. A third grader at school can also agree with that. But how, where, when and in what way? Can the Swedish Democrats respond to this when it comes to housing policy instead of always pointing to immigration? Housing will also be needed for people who are, as it were, native Swedes, such as people like me.
i-e69b8958971e4c09-336	Mr President, I would like to I can, of course, answer the questions you ask about how and where to build and the like. I'd love to hear from you what I asked for. I asked you: How can we meet the migration stream that comes to Sweden in view of the housing shortage that we have and given the pace of construction? Housing is not built for a year, but 190 000 people will be built this year. I never got an answer to that question. You demand answers from me, but it would be nice if you could also answer the questions I ask. As far as the housing policy of the Swedish Democrats is concerned, I think you can read our committee motion in this area. Then you will see that we are putting forward proposals for a simpler planning and construction process. I think we all agree with that. There is nothing there that distinguishes the Swedish Democrats, and it is clear that this is an important issue in this context. We also want to increase competition between construction companies so that there are not only two three large construction companies submitting tenders to build. How else are we going to push prices? How else can people afford to buy their apartments? How else are real estate companies and municipal housing companies to be able to build if prices are not pressed? Only a few companies submit tenders. How will the smaller construction companies be able to finance construction when the banks say no? We have proposed that we need to look at how to create greater competition, how to get more bids and how to give more construction companies financial opportunities to take home larger bids. Then we propose regional housing planning support. In particular, support should be given to smaller municipalities in order to enable them to plan their process better. Their knowledge may not be as great as it is in large municipalities because they do not have the same opportunity to have good officials in the field. We also want the housing allowance to be reviewed in order for more people to have the opportunity to live in the homes that are being built and that today cost quite a lot.
i-e69b8958971e4c09-342	Mr President, I would like to I am the first to agree that the person who has had a few glasses of wine can be completely lethal behind the car steering wheel when rapid reflections and lightning-fast situational assessments are required. But common sense says that a person who has drunk a few glasses of wine and grasped the helm for his boat has much more time to assess and reflect on which maneuvers may need to be made to avoid dangers. As in the public debate – and even among politicians – talking about sea-filling at 0.2 per mil is an abuse of the Swedish language. The provision on extended criminal liability at 0,2 per mille at sea was introduced on 1 June 2010. This applies not only to skippers and crews on large ships but also to boaters on smaller and medium-sized boats. When the legislation was introduced, it was justified on grounds of maritime safety. According to the Riksdag, there was reason to take the same serious view of the impact of alcohol on the sea as in the traffic on our roads. It is an argument that has subsequently been rejected by the Supreme Court. In a judgment of summer 2012, the Supreme Court states that the risk from the point of view of road safety is lower in the case of per mille driving by sea than in the case of road traffic. Thus, a moderate alcohol impact rate at sea does not have as high a penalty as the same alcohol impact rate when driving – according to the country's highest legal authority. In view of the Supreme Court's ruling and given that the 0.2-promille limit has now been in force during six summer seasons, the time has come to review whether the effects of the law are in line with the legislator's intentions. I did this three years ago. Since then, the Riksdag has repeatedly stated year after year that it is urgent to evaluate the legislation adopted and that it is urgent that the Government follows the matter. The same thing is now being proposed. The report we are now discussing, the CU2, states precisely that the committee assumes that the government will follow the matter closely. The committee then proposes that the Parliament rejects the motion requests for an evaluation of the 0.2-per mile limit. When the chairman of the Transport Committee at the time, Anders Ygeman, in the 2014 election campaign more or less exhibited as an election promise – or in any case expressed a positive opinion in the newspaper Båtliv – that there would be an evaluation sparked the hope of the Swedish boaters of an evaluation of the 0.2-per mile limit at sea. And why did they do that? Because the Swedish people want to bend down in their boats? No. For the vast majority of boaters, boating represents nature experiences, feeling of freedom and social interaction in the boat, sometimes accompanied by alcohol. To decide for yourself whether to have one or two glasses of wine, two beers or a snaps gives a feeling of freedom without risk to yourself or anyone else. Mr President, I would like to I believe that the hope for an evaluation has been reinforced by the almost 1 million small boat owners in Sweden. Then why has it been reinforced? Well, because the politician in the 2014 election campaign... ( Andre VICE TALMANN: May I ask the Member of Parliament to come to a conclusion? The maximum duration of the statement shall be four minutes. )
i-e69b8958971e4c09-352	The politician who almost displayed this as an election promise is today the minister of a government that has the investigative power in its hand.
i-e69b8958971e4c09-353	Mr President, I would like to The current rules on drunk driving came into force in June 2010, as also mentioned by Maria Abrahamsson. The new alcohol limits are 0.2 per mil for sea-filling and 1.0 per mil for rough sea-filling. All drivers who drive boats longer than ten metres or boats that can be driven for at least 15 knots are covered by the new law. This applies both to those in front of the boat and to those on board larger boats who are of great importance for the safe operation of the ship. The new law also gives the police and Coast Guard the right to perform routine alcohol tests to control sobriety and maritime safety in Swedish waters. This means that traffic sobering offences are detected and that the offences can be stopped by preventing further journeys under the influence of alcohol. It is a rewritten law on which many have expressed their views. There are also those who are working actively to change or at least evaluate this border. The background to the law is a security issue. Alcohol can affect us even at small amounts to make us worse drivers. Among other things, night vision is already affected by very low alcohol intake. There are, of course, various studies on this. One study shows that drinking alcohol can be even more serious at sea than in road traffic. Sound, wind and everything else mean that you are affected much more and have it more difficult to drive boats. It is also the case that more drivers are inexperienced. Alcohol in traffic is a danger because accidents occur. When Maria Abrahamsson says that it is not possible to compare road traffic and boat traffic, this is only partly true. Alcohol affects the risk of accidents. That is why we cannot accept a high level of alcoholism. It affects road accidents, but it is a risk factor that can be avoided. But that does not rule out compliance with the legislation. That is also what the committee has agreed on. The committee assumes that the government will follow the matter closely and proposes that the Riksdag reject all motion requests. It is important to comply with this legislation, but it is done with all legislation, and that is what we expect to do with it.
