i-97885b4d41c9754b-2	Mr President, I would like to Niklas Wykman has asked why the impact of policy is not presented in an open, transparent and diverse manner. Niklas Wykman claims that the 2016 budget bill does not contain analyses of which income groups receive lower or higher disposable income with government policy. This is a false statement. The analysis can be found in a car. 2 and is made using exactly the same method as in previous budget proposals and in accordance with international practice. Like Niklas Wykman, I believe that transparency and transparency are important in terms of the impact of economic policy. Therefore, the government in the budget bill also describes the overall assessment of how the government's reforms will affect growth, unemployment, income distribution and gender equality. However, there is considerable uncertainty as to the extent to which and at what rate, inter alia, employment and unemployment are changing as a result of different individual measures. The effects of the previous government's reforms are based on model estimates and calculations based on thumb rules that may be considered extremely uncertain, and they may give a false impression of accuracy in the assessments. Such disclosure does not necessarily promote transparency.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-6	Mr President, I would like to First of all, the Minister of Finance claims that I am asking for a table on the effects of the distribution, and the Minister of Finance correctly refers to such a table being included in the budget proposal, that is to say, the distribution effects are accounted for just as the Minister of Finance describes it. But what I am asking for is the table that has always existed before. It is also very clear from the interpellation that it is the table that is being requested, where long-term effects on employment, labour force, unemployment and GDP are reported. That is the table I am calling for. The Minister of Finance's answer is therefore an answer to a question that has not been asked at all and also an accusation that is incorrect. I understand that the Minister for Finance is depending on this particular distribution table, because it was a very broad discussion in the media about whether the Minister for Finance himself would have intervened and removed that table, because according to the sources that Svenska Dagbladet had shown that eight out of ten households received less disposable income. Now, however, it was not the table that was requested, but on the contrary, it is about the impact of the policies in place on jobs and GDP, on employment, labour force participation and unemployment. This type of accounting has been done by previous governments in an open and transparent manner, which has been able to follow the estimates made by the government of the measures taken. Open and honest disclosure of the effects of individual policies is democraticly correct. It gives the media the opportunity to review. It gives the opposition the opportunity to review. It gives expert authorities the opportunity to review. Above all, it is an important tool for evaluating policy. Not all the reforms will be right. Not all the reforms of the alliance government had the effect that they were expected to have. Not all the reforms of this government will have the effect that the government believes. That is why it is important, Mr President, to be able to go back and evaluate what the government believed when it implemented the reform. Otherwise, it is almost impossible to say whether or not you have achieved the objectives of politics. Mr President, I would like to The fact that this government hides and darkens these kinds of effects is serious in the light of the history of the Social Democrats in this area. But shut down ESO, the expert authority to evaluate and review the public economy. They were closed for international scrutiny. The effects of politics have been hidden in the past. The trixant, Mr President, that former Social Democratic governments were engaged in with unemployment statistics is probably one of the worst we have seen in Sweden. Among other things, there was a bonus at Försäkringskassan for early retirement as soon as possible. Then there was a more structured way of doing this – plus jobs, free years, extensive early retirements and so on – that led to one or one and a half million people in exclusion. This has continued during this period. We will now see what extra jobs and more do with the reclassification of people. We have been able to note how the accounting process is impaired. That is what has been asked for in this interpellation. There have been covert threats to the Fiscal Council that they would have played their part now that we have a Social Democratic government. It is the reclassification of people into various unemployment measures and so on. It is because governments should not be able to do this, cheating and careless that you should have transparency. Transparency should be ensured because it is important in democratic terms, for the media and citizens. It counteracts corruption and abuse of power. It also improves and qualifies the political debate, Mr President.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-15	Mr President, I would like to I also answered that question in the interpellation answer. My assessment is that transparency and transparency are important. But my view is that the table used over a few years by the moderate-led government – it is not something that has historically or traditionally been included in the budget bill, but it was introduced during the last term of office, I think, by the moderate-led government – does not necessarily promote transparency, because it is based on very uncertain model bills where the effects are very uncertain. It gives the impression of clarity and certainty that do not exist. I think it is important to evaluate the policy. But perhaps I do not think that the policy should be evaluated on the basis of very uncertain model estimates based on the impact of the policy. I think that is extremely important to do. But that is, of course, the reality of the policy from the outside, not the extent to which it lives up to uncertain model estimates. Then I find it terrifying that Niklas Wykman talks about plus jobs, extra services and trainee jobs as a way of tripping with statistics. That's surprising. An active labour market policy is something that can support people to get back to work. We Social Democrats think it is important for unemployed people to have the opportunity to get back to work. One way to do this is to support an introduction to the labour market. It turns out that carrying out ordinary tasks during your period as an unemployed person increases the chances of getting into work later. Here the plus jobs, trainee services and extra services are a way for the unemployed to be able to be in the ordinary business, strengthen the quality there and thus also get closer to the labour market. To call it a statistical quiz, I think is a surprising expression of Niklas Wykman.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-20	Mr President, I would like to Emotion charge is called in the textbook on rhetoric. It's a trick you can use when the facts fail. Then you can play indignant instead. Of course, labour market policies play a role. They can be important for individuals and for their chances of getting back into the labour market. But labour market policies do not create jobs. It's the other thing that does. Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson usually returns to this. I am not going to stand here and discuss internal conflicts in the government, but I note that I have not argued that labour market measures do not matter. On the other hand, this type of measure was used to massively reclassify people from the unemployed to the employed in order to conceal a very high level of unemployment in society. This later became well known as exclusion, involving more than 1 million people at its peak and now growing again. Mr President, I would like to This interpellation is about openness and transparency. Nevertheless, I take the view that the Minister of Finance withdraws the claim that I would make false allegations about the budget proposal because that is not the case. I am therefore asking for a table dealing with the impact on GDP, employment and labour force participation. I get the answer that my question is wrong. The Minister of Finance says that Niklas Wykman claims that the 2016 budget bill does not contain analyses of which income groups receive lower or higher disposable income with government policy. ..................................................... I am fully aware that such a table is contained in the budget proposal. The problem with this government is not that it does not account for the distributional effects of politics. The problem is that you don't report the effects of what makes something available. It is not clear what the impact of the various measures on jobs and the labour market is. If this type of assessment is not made in the Government Office, what is the priority between different types of measures? A budgetary process seems reasonable in that you have a long list of different reforms that you want to implement and which you subsequently choose between because you have limited scope or limited opportunities to do things. In some way, priority is given to different types of reform. A reasonable starting point is that this list of priorities can be known to the Swedish people at least qualitatively. What is the government's priority? However, when the expected impact of individual reforms is not reported, it is unknown how priority is given. Are they doing this to buy the Left Party's support? Is this being done to keep the government together with the Green Party? Do you do this because it is something that you have dreamed of since the SSU course at Bommersvik? Or do you do this because it is better for Sweden the higher the bnp, the higher the growth and the more employed you have? When you don't report things, when you're not transparent, and when you're not open, we all live in uncertainty. It makes politics worse, and it makes citizens and the media less transparent. I therefore call on this government to be more transparent and more transparent. I would also refer to the debate that broke out in the media on this table, which was alleged to be missing. It is another sign that, when there are big discussions in the media and almost drifted around whether a table is present or not or whether to account for disposable income, at home or at individual level, there is an underlying concern that this is being fischlas and darkened. This comes from choosing to remove the accounting of the effects on individual reforms. But if the Minister of Finance does not want to be more transparent and transparent and does not want to account in this way, perhaps the Minister of Finance can explain what the order of priority is from the government when making a budget proposal. Is it work and employment, or is it other motives? And if so, how should we outside the government be able to know about it and examine the government for what it is doing?
i-97885b4d41c9754b-30	Mr President, I would like to If Niklas Wykman doesn't want us to tell him again that this table is included, maybe he wouldn't formulate himself as he does in the interpellation. When you read the interpellation you can clearly get the impression that Niklas Wykman has not understood that the table is included because he writes: ..................................................... Maybe it's stupid to write that way if you don't want to be misunderstood. Furthermore, the claim that eight out of ten households have had a reduced disposable income is not correct, as I have made clear in previous interpellation debates. I am therefore a little surprised that it is coming back again and, of course, I wonder whether Niklas Wykman is listening to the answers in the interpellation debates given that he is coming back with false statements. The government believes it is important that we use our tax money as efficiently as possible to strengthen welfare, to get more people into work and employment and to strengthen school. Therefore, the government has also taken important steps to increase the efficiency of how we levy taxes and how we spend our money. The most important measure that the government has taken since we took office is to remove the reduction in the social security contribution for young people, because, according to a number of expert authorities, it has been considered to be very inefficient and costly because it has a very small effect. That is why we have removed it and instead focused on more effective measures. An overall assessment is made of which measures are most effective. The Government also reports in the Budget Bill the overall assessment of the impact of the Government's policy.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-35	Mr President, I would like to This kind of confused debate, perhaps without much interest in the broad audience, becomes when a government tries to hide and trixate. Furthermore, when the Minister of Finance tries to distort the issue as much as possible in order to avoid responding to it, it becomes serious. It says this in the interpellation:...The government chose to remove the table that earlier years reported the effect of the government's policy in the long term. ..................................................... It is difficult to misunderstand what is being asked for. Employment effects were hidden. Mr President, I would like to I alone am not responsible for this criticism. There is a wide range of heavy-duty bodies and people who criticise the government in order to do this, to try and hide, and so on. The Council of Finance Ministers said at a press conference on 12 May 2015: The government should report on the employment effects of its policies. Lars Calmfors, professor of international economics, said on 19 May 2015: It is also unfortunate that the government does not report estimates of the effects of its reforms. On 7 May 2015, the Swedish Financial Control Agency made serious criticisms for not making an evaluation and review of the reforms. Arbetsförmedlingen and Tillväxtverket ask for a more detailed account of how the measures beat and what their significance is in the labour market. The Institute of Economics, Saco and the Swedish National Agency for Economic Development and Economic Development consider that the government clearly overestimates the impact of the reforms, but that no further evaluation is possible as no specification is given. The Institute of Economics and the Public Employment Service make other types of assessments than the government does. One can soon list any expert and expert authority in this country who criticises the loss of transparency and transparency. I hope that the Minister of Finance will be able to address this and come back with more open and transparent budgets in the future.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-44	Mr President, I would like to I think there will be this kind of confused debate when you do not write open and transparent interpellations. This interpellation Magdalena with something that may not even be a question, Andersson: ..................................................... In the previous paragraph, Niklas Wykman refers precisely to this table of disposable income. Niklas Wykman might try to write some more open and transparent interpellations. Then it will be easier for the Minister of Finance to answer them. Of course, it will be somewhat less confusing for those who listen to the debate. One thing is clear: This government uses our tax money in a much more effective way than it did at the Ministry of Finance when Niklas Wykman worked there. We want us to have as much job effects, school investments and climate improvements as possible for the tax money we are drawing. That is why we have phased out the very expensive and inefficient tax subsidies used by the previous government, not least the social security contributions for young people. Instead, we are now investing in effective measures that really create jobs and enable young people to enter the labour market. It is also visible in the statistics where we see youth unemployment falling and employment rising. It is, of course, very pleasing and welcome.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-49	Mr President, I would like to Niklas Wykman has asked me if I stand by the assessment of the expenditure ceiling made in the 2016 budget proposal. Let me first state that, since the government took office, fiscal policy has changed in a more responsible direction. The general government deficit has been almost halved compared to last year. As a result of the current refugee situation, unforeseen expenditure has been incurred. Work is now under way within the Government Office to review measures to ensure good margins. Depending on the evolution of public finances and migration flows, this may involve ways to mitigate cost increases and savings in future budgets. The expenditure ceiling level in the 2016 budget bill is fixed, and we act on the government's side to help ensure that there are good margins below the ceiling.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-53	Mr President, I would like to After yesterday's and last week's polls, it is easy to understand that there is some desperation among the government and the Social Democratic Party. Nevertheless, it is a bit comical, Mr President, when the Party Secretary of the Social Democrats explains the results of opinion polls, because it is because the Alliance's budget has been in force. That is why it is so bad for the party in public opinion. Then comes the Minister of Finance and explains that the deficits have been halved. What the Party Secretary of the Social Democrats expresses as a negative effect of the Alliance's budget thus later describes the Minister of Finance as a great success for the Swedish economy. It is correct that deficits have been halved. It should then be stressed that the Finance Minister has therefore not ruled with his own budget but with the Alliance and that previous alliance measures have had a very positive effect on tax revenues. For example, job tax deductions, austerity in benefit systems, clearer rules in health insurance, and so on, therefore, surprise tax revenues on the upside. Nevertheless, the Minister of Finance can be clear that she has ruled with an alliance budget that has halved the deficits following the economic crisis. What the Minister of Finance has contributed, however, is to create a great deal of uncertainty about the future. Five in twelve are borrowed SEK 11 billion to cover expenditure increases during the year. It is not possible to save 11 billion in a few months, but this does not present a path for public finances. It is not reported when we are going to reach balance or surplus. Nor is the long-term financing presented. This meets with silence. There was a debate in Today's Industry today, perhaps prompted by these discussions. It claims that the budget contains savings, but it is about transfers which redistribute expenditure over years instead. No answers are given as to how things are to be financed and paid for in the long term. No answers are given as to what the path to public finances looks like and when Sweden is going to reach balance or surplus. That is three core tasks for a finance minister, and that is the mistake of all three. Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken, SEB, described the finance minister's policy as sending three sacred state financial cows to quick slaughter. The reference was then made to the surplus target, the krona-by-krona principle and the expenditure ceiling. Mr President, I would like to The interpellation and the question is precisely about the expenditure ceiling. The Minister of Finance has stated that the expenditure ceiling applies for 2016, albeit with very small safety margins. It is welcomed, but the whole point of the expenditure ceiling is that it binds politics in the long term, creates security and stability and imposes priorities in the government. The bill of expenditure is also decided for 2017 and 2018, and provisionally for 2019. Therefore, the question to the Minister for Finance is whether the entire expenditure ceiling period applies. Does the expenditure ceilings also apply for 2017 and 2018? This is the real issue and the real benefit and point of the expenditure ceilings, that is to say that it binds fiscal policy in the long term at a certain level of expenditure that cannot be exceeded. The maintenance and application of expenditure ceilings is very important for Swedish resilience. For example, we entered the 1990s crisis without economic ramifications, and then we lost half a million jobs. For example, it took 15 years for women's employment rates to recover to previous levels. During the 2008 crisis, which was significantly worse and more extensive, jobs could instead be around 350,000 more thanks to frameworks, reforms for jobs and tight public finances. Therefore, the question to the Minister for Finance is: Are the agreed expenditure ceilings for 2017 and 2018 applicable?
i-97885b4d41c9754b-63	Mr President, I would like to Niklas Wykman says there are small safety margins under the roof. On what basis does Niklas Wykman claim that?
i-97885b4d41c9754b-64	Mr President, I would like to The last public assessment – the Minister for Finance has not done anything or presented anything to the Swedish people in an open and transparent way – is the Swedish Financial Control Agency has done and presented. That is precisely where the small margins in the expenditure ceilings are pointed out. Had the Finance Minister himself made and presented an assessment and review of the path of public finances and surpluses – or for that matter, balance-sheet targets – in connection with borrowing an extra 11 billion, this interpellation might not have been necessary. It is, of course, presented in the light of the fact that the accounts are not sufficiently clear from the government. It is not now, nor was it before. The latest public review available is the one from the Swedish Financial Control Agency. If the Minister of Finance can present a different assessment, it is welcome in such cases, and that is precisely what I am looking for – more transparency and transparency as well as clear accounting. Then, I think, Mr President, it is up to a Minister of Finance not only to ask new questions but also to answer the questions asked to the Minister for Finance. That is a bit the purpose of interpellation debates. My question to the Minister for Finance is: Does the expenditure ceiling apply as decided for 2017 and 2018? I'll take the question one more time. Does the expenditure ceiling apply as decided for 2017 and 2018?
i-97885b4d41c9754b-67	Mr President, I would like to I answer Niklas Wykman's questions very often, but even though I answer them, I often get them back. This applies not only to Niklas Wykman but also to many other moderate members of parliament. I get the same questions time and again, even though I answer them. The answer is yes. Let's see if I get the question back more times. The reason why I am very amazed at Niklas Wykman's claim that there are small safety margins is, of course, that we have taken steps to ensure that we have good margins under the ceiling, and we have stated that today. As regards the path to public finances and the overall assessment of the space under the ceiling, Niklas Wykman knows very well – he himself has worked at the Ministry of Finance – that around the turn of the year a new forecast for public finances and economic development is being made. This is reported when the work is done. Niklas Wykman knows from his years at the Ministry of Finance very well that it does not happen in November but that it is done sometime around the turn of the year. Of course I'll tell you when it's done. Then I am somewhat surprised that Niklas Wykman repeatedly takes up the 11 billion, because the Moderates are behind the supplementary amending budget. Not least in view of the fact that the Moderates have broken previous agreements with the government on several occasions in the autumn, I am a little wondering whether they intend to break this agreement too. We now agreed that we should make this supplementary amending budget, and yet Niklas Wykman attends this in Parliament. The Moderates have earlier this autumn chosen to break the December agreement, which we concluded almost twelve months ago and which said s would apply for eight years. It was an agreement – we took in hand – but the Moderates chose to break it. The Council and the Moderates also agreed on ID controls, but they nevertheless chose not to support that proposal yesterday. I therefore wonder, of course, what about the firmness and character of the Moderates when it comes to sticking to agreements. I get a little worried when these 11 billion come up.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-73	Mr President, I would like to A former famous Social Democratic minister said the Internet was a fly that would blow past. That did not prove to be very true; rather, it became the opposite. Nowadays there are technologies that enable all people who so want and who have access to an iPhone, a computer or something like that to go back and check what has actually been said in the debate. There is no need to request the parliamentary record. It makes it very clear that I started by saying that it was no wonder that 11 billion were borrowed, because that kind of savings cannot be made in a few months at the end of a year, that is, I stand firm and clear behind this. What I am concerned about, Mr President and the Minister for Finance, is that this type of crisis-like measure does not account for the overall impact of the policy. When you need to intervene, do something exceptional in the economy and borrow a lot of money with a short time left, then you should account for the long-term effects, how it affects the path of public finances, how it affects the robustness and stability of the economy, how it affects our long-term ability to finance well-being, do job ventures and other things that a finance minister should present. The Minister of Finance says that everything should happen as usual. But, Minister of Finance, it's not all as usual. In 2008 we had an exceptional economic crisis in the world with the biggest case in international demand that we have had since the depression. Then we had a very active government that constantly, early and clearly communicated the challenges that existed. Now we have another type of challenge with a very large refugee pressure on Sweden with costs for migration and integration. Then it is not possible to say: We do as usual, we work according to template. In serious situations, one must be early, clear and transparent in telling what is happening to the economy. A loan of SEK 11 billion was taken. We backed that and voted in favour of that budget, as agreed. On the other hand, we sought an idea of how this is to be financed in the long term and the government's idea of how public finances are to be reconciled. At that time, I believe, the Minister of Finance would have presented the effects on public finances, on surplus targets, on balance sheet targets, if you will, and on expenditure ceilings. This was not and still has not been done. The Minister for Finance is here telling us that today she has presented this, that everything is now ready. But that is not the case. What we have been able to see is a debate article in Dagens Industri. I went before this debate and looked at the Ministry of Finance's website for a memo or a powerpoint presentation. It is possible that it is there now or was there then, but I could not find it in any easy way. If I do, I will, of course, read the accounting of the path to public finances, when the balance or surplus targets are expected to be reached and what the expenditure ceilings should be. Since the Minister for Finance says so, I believe, of course, that such a presentation is available somewhere for the Swedish people to take part in. But what we can read about in Dagens Industri is a redeployment of expenditure between the years, where, for example, the Environmental Party's project to buy up and national forest should be delayed or divided over a number of years and where one should save a little on the reforms that have been promised at school and other things. There are certainly clear withdrawals in the area of the Green Party in the government, but there is no path for public finances or time set for reaching surpluses and so on in the debate article presented in Dagens Industri. I hope, because the Minister for Finance says so, that there is a more qualified material to see than a debate article in a newspaper.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-83	Mr President, I would like to Please, Niklas Wykman! I will, of course, make an overall assessment of the future projections for public finances and for the development of the economy, as always. I'll do that when it's ready, around the turn of the year. Then, of course, I will have a customary press meeting and show all the diagrams. Then Niklas Wykman is cordially invited to either listen to the live broadcast or to take part of the material on the Government Office's website. I do, as was done when Niklas Wykman worked at the Ministry of Finance, a complete assessment of the state finances. The fact that we have tabled an additional amending budget is proof that the government is not acting as if everything was as usual. When we presented the amending budget, I had many contacts with the Moderates. However, no Moderate asked me at this point to make a comprehensive statement of public finances. Therefore, I am a little surprised that Niklas Wykman is now here in December saying that I would have done something in November when no moderate in November asked me to do just that. Of course, we could have discussed it. It's a little strange. Then I think it is good that Niklas Wykman says that the agreement on the supplementary amending budget is maintained. I find it very gratifying that the Moderates are sticking to an agreement anyway.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-86	Mr President, I would like to Anette Åkesson has asked me if the Ministry of Finance has taken note of the Konjunkturinstitutet's report on restaurant VAT and what analyses I have based on in my assessment of the impact of the VAT reduction. I have taken note of the Conjunkturinstitutet's final report on the effects of the reduced restaurant and catering VAT. It estimates that the reform has increased employment in the sector by around 6 000 people. However, the long-term employment impact in the economy as a whole is estimated to be significantly lower – around 1 000 – 3 000 people. The Institute's final report therefore shows that the reduction in restaurant and catering VAT does not seem to have been a particularly cost-effective way of increasing employment.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-89	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. It is interesting that Magdalena Andersson so quickly dismisses the relatively large number of jobs created – 6 000 – and a long-term employment effect of around 1 000 – 3 000. The lower long-term impact is due to the fact that an increase in labour demand does not normally have an effect on overall employment, as the employment impact in one sector is matched by falling employment in other sectors. This means that the jobs created by the reform with reduced food VAT in restaurants have largely succeeded in putting those who did not already exist on the labour market, i.e. to a large extent young and new arrivals. Precisely young people without upper secondary education and born out of Europe find it relatively difficult to establish themselves on the Swedish labour market. At the same time, however, they are important, as the risk of long-term exclusion increases over time when you are out of work. It is therefore important, both for the individual and for society, that these people also enter the labour market. According to Visita, in 2012 and 2013, about 45 per cent of the jobs in the restaurant industry went to people aged 24 and younger and 45 per cent to people who were not born in Sweden. Sixty per cent of the foreign-born went to people born in Asia or the Middle East and 12 per cent to people born in Africa. So there's a lot of security. There were several objectives of the measure to reduce VAT on restaurant and catering services. The main thing was to increase sustainable employment – something that has obviously succeeded – but also to simplify tax rules, which reduces red tape for businesses in the restaurant industry. The fact that the Alliance government placed a lot of focus on industries that have low job thresholds was no coincidence. This applies, for example, to RUT services. Here is a relatively good opportunity to get their first job. Creating cost-effective jobs for those who are far from the labour market is in everyone's interests, but the Alliance actually delivered, as the report from the Konjunkturinstitutet shows. After more than a year of government, the S-MP has launched two proposals, trainee services and training contracts, targeting one of the two target groups: young people. The results so far do not impress. 41 trainee posts and 9 or 147 places with training contracts have been filled in the short term. Both data, 9 or 147, appear in a report from Swedish Radio, so I do not really know which of them is correct. We do not know what the cost is for these, and it is therefore difficult to assess how cost-effective they are. Nor do we know whether they have any long-term employment effect at all. Since the Minister of Finance claims that reduced VAT on food has not been cost-effective, we outside the Ministry of Finance need to be given access to the information: What are the costs per location of the measures implemented by the S-MP? How cost-effective are trainee jobs and places with training contracts assessed? And, since they focus on young people, does the S-MP have any proposals at all aimed at making it easier for foreign born people to enter the labour market? The latter is particularly important in view of developments in the last six months.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-97	Mr President, I would like to Of course, both the trainee services as well as the auxiliary services and all other services on the labour market are available regardless of where you were born, in Sweden or elsewhere in the world. The additional services and trainee jobs are of course also available to people. We are not making a difference in our labour market policy to where you were born, but what kind of support you need to get into the labour market. Of course, the extra services and trainee jobs are significantly cheaper per person in work than the reduced employer's contributions for young people or the reduced restaurant VAT, because a subsidy is made on the salary, and they are significantly lower than the cost of reducing restaurant VAT. Even if you take the higher figure, which shows the increase in employment in the industry and does not take into account the fact that there are fewer jobs in other sectors, the cost is still almost 1 million per job. Of course, the salary in the trainee jobs does not cost 1 million per job. Trainee jobs are not meant to be permanent employment but a way for young people to get a foothold on the labour market and supplement it with an education and training so that they can then enter permanent employment. If you want more people to go to a restaurant, reduced restaurant VAT is a good way to use the money. But if you want people to get into work, it is difficult to claim that restaurant VAT is an effective way of working because it gives very little effect per inserted crown. Instead, employing people in the public sector could give up to 10 000 jobs – only as a calculation example – while the long-term effect of reduced restaurant VAT is estimated to be between 1 000 and 3 000 jobs. The fact that it is particularly effective as a labour market measure or for job creation is therefore difficult to assert. Of course, it may seem important for other reasons that people go to a restaurant to eat.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-103	Mr President, I would like to It is a bit odd that the S-MP government has retained the reduced restaurant VAT if it is so cost-efficient. I did not get a real answer to the question because the answer was that the cost of the alliance measure was 1 million per job and that the trainee jobs will cost less. So I have not yet been told how much trainee jobs cost and whether they are cost-effective or not. The measures launched by the Social Democrats and the Green Party are aimed at young people, but there are also older new arrivals. They are thus partly aimed at foreign born according to age. Within the framework of the Tax Committee, we have, perhaps especially the Alliance Members, made many visits to restaurateurs and professional organisations to get feedback on the measures that were implemented. The restaurant industry is an important industry throughout the country, and good conditions are crucial to help keep the whole of Sweden alive. In addition, the restaurant industry is often a workforce-intensive industry with tough competition and small margins. Crowds appreciated both the reduction in food VAT and the employer's fee for young people and the staff. They have been able to expand their opening hours and, for example, have started to offer lunches. Many have also stated that their margins are small and that the reforms carried out were simply about winning or disappearing. The parties on the left often claim that the companies put the money in their own pocket. However, investigation after investigation shows a lower rate of price increase despite an increase in wages and raw material costs. The fall in prices has attracted more customers. This combined with the fact that ordinary families have more money in their pockets thanks to the job tax deductions has made more people choose to go out to eat. With more customers there is room to create more jobs. So there is a connection between more people going out to eat and more jobs being created. It'll be a good circle. One could say that we have all benefited from the reduced restaurant VAT, not just those who got the new real jobs. Customers have received a large offering at a lower price, those who already worked in the industry have safer jobs and restaurant owners can continue to operate their businesses. The winner is also the state and municipalities that secure the continued financing of our welfare through tax revenues. As Niklas Wykman mentioned, the Alliance presented clear employment effects in its budget proposals, as opposed to S and MP. I can understand that it is difficult when you put forward a budget as a government that reduces the number of jobs, but it does not get any better because you darken. The tax increases that the S-MP government said would be directed at high-income earners, we know now will be widely spread. Eight out of ten households will have less in their wallets after the end of the year when the S-MP budget comes into effect. Since pleasure is not a priority when you have less to move around with and because, for example, VAT is raised on cinema tickets, I wonder how to interpret the Minister of Finance's move that the reduced food VAT in the restaurant is not cost-effective. Does this mean that the government intends to abolish it?
i-97885b4d41c9754b-114	Mr President, I would like to Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson chooses not to account for the effects of the policy she proposes and which the government pursues. There was a remarkable statement from the Minister for Finance. She says that the reforms of the previous government cost SEK 1 million per job. She knows exactly what she's doing. In the next breath, the Minister of Finance says that it is difficult and uncertain to make such calculations, so the government therefore chooses not to do such for its reforms. The calculations are therefore clear and clear in terms of what one can criticise the Alliance for, but in terms of their own policies they are impossible to account for. This type of report, or ex-post studies as they are called, derives its meaning from having made an ex-ante assessment, a so-called ex-ante study. These results are compared to each other to see whether or not the reforms had the intended effect. Now to what the remarkable Minister of Finance says. She says that the wage cost of government labour market measures is lower than the Alliance's and thus more effective. That statement is based on a total disregard for economic assessment and qualified economic analysis and that the million or the 500 000 or 400 000 or 300 000, or whatever the government is now paying for these places, are just there, that they come out of nowhere and are free of charge and that they have no effect in any other part of the economy. But, Minister of Finance, you have to make qualified assessments based on the best possible science in the field and ask: What would the 300 000 or 400 000 I pay for the place otherwise have done in the economy? What does this lead to in so - called general equilibrium? This money comes from somewhere, and there it also has an effect on the economy. When the state has 300 000, 300 000 people in the economy have given up their money, wages or jobs. This money could have led to a job, employment or investment elsewhere in the economy. Therefore, it is necessary to make qualified assessments based on the best available science and on best available methods. That is exactly what the Minister of Finance does not want to do and does not want to report. She's just saying that government action is effective because the total wage bill is lower than the evaluated cost is per job. That is not the way to make economic judgments, Minister of Finance. It is remarkable that in 2015, with the amount of knowledge, insight and aggregate research that exists in this area, we have a government that expresses itself in this way.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-124	Mr President, I would like to In the previous interpellation debate, Niklas Wykman argued that I did not answer questions and said that it is important that I answer questions in interpellation debates. Now I got a question from Niklas Wykman's party friend Anette Åkesson about what the trainee jobs cost compared to the jobs in the restaurant business, and then I answered that question. Then Niklas Wykman requests the floor and is very angry and upset that I have answered the question. I'm getting a little confused. Would Niklas Wykman like me to answer the questions the Moderates ask in the interpellations, or should I not answer the questions? When I answered the question, I was also clear that there is a difference between trainee jobs, because they are not meant to be forever. The idea is that you should be there for a while and then get out on the regular labour market. I answered the question. But I would like Niklas Wykman to make it clear: Does Niklas Wykman want me to answer the questions, or does Niklas Wykman not want me to answer? Niklas Wykman believes it is important to present and make uncertain calculations in advance according to models of the impact of measures and then compare them with the effects that they are deemed to have when studying them afterwards. I do not share this view. The report I am talking about looks at the reform just afterwards. It is good and important to study various measures afterwards. Then you can also assess whether they have been effective or not. The most appropriate thing is not to compare them with what was thought before, but to what effect they have actually had in reality. It is more important to relate to how measures work in reality and how much you get for each tax chandelier than how they relate to a theoretical precalculation. If that is how Niklas Wykman conducted politics at the Ministry of Finance, I understand why after eight years the result was higher unemployment, higher youth unemployment and higher long-term unemployment. It is quite correct that spending money on, for example, trainee jobs is the money that could have been found somewhere else in the economy. This is true, however, even when you lower the tax. It is also money that could have been found somewhere else in the economy and be useful. We need to consider exactly the same thing when it comes to whether a tax reduction or a task is effective. It is important to make an overall assessment there, and the government has done so. That is why, among other things, we have removed the reduced social security contributions for young people. I note that even the Moderates now feel that it may not have been a completely successful reform. They have completely new proposals and have approached the government in their budget exercise. I am, of course, very much in favour of this. I also note that the Swedish labour market is now doing very well. The government budget – the amendments we tabled in our amending budget – is now in force. So now it is not only a bourgeois budget but also a Social Democratic budget. I see that the labour market is doing well. Looking at, for example, the Riksbank's forecast, it looks like there will be very good pressure on the labour market also next year, when the Social Democratic and Environmental Party government's budget fully applies.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-137	Mr President, I would like to It is good that the Minister for Finance also thinks that clarity is important. The question is how much we get out of the 380 million SEK that is budgeted for the 41 trainee services and the 9 or 147 training contracts one. The Minister of Finance's statement creates uncertainty. To state that the reduction in VAT on restaurant food is not a cost-effective measure, combined with the S-MP maintaining the reform and at the same time not delivering any alternative measures on its own is surprising. The Institute's report shows good results. The measures implemented by the Alliance, such as the reduced restaurant VAT, are therefore something to build on, not to be criticised. Job creation in sectors that employ young and newcomers is a real challenge, but it is important to tackle. If we do not succeed, it will have negative effects not only on the individual but also on society, both in the short and long term. I would like to thank the Minister for Finance for the debate.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-141	Mr President, I would like to The Minister of Finance is asking if I want answers to questions. I guess you'd have to assume that's a rhetorical question. If I ask the Minister for Finance what number comes after eight and the Minister for Finance answers green, it is clear that in some sense it is an answer, but it is not an answer to the question that has been asked. The answer green instead of the correct answer nine can be likened to comparing what a reform costs in general equilibrium, where account is taken of the impact on the whole economy, and then, as the Minister of Finance does, compare this with the cost of the discretionaryly paying a job out of the state budget. It's comparing apples and pears or, if you like, bananas and grapes. It is not a serious way of approaching an economic analysis, it is not a serious way of making a budget and it is not a serious way of managing a country's economy. That is why, Mr President, we are asking from the opposition and the Alliance for a clear and transparent account of the effects that the government believes the policy will have. Then it is possible to evaluate them, and then it is also possible to evaluate the government. Mr President, I would like to I am not at all concerned that some of the reforms carried out by the Alliance did not have the effect that we previously thought they would have. That's life-- not everything is exactly what you've been thinking. Overall, after summary and evaluation, we know that the reforms carried out by the Alliance had a very good effect. We had the highest employment rate throughout the European Union in 2014, there were 350 000 more jobs, despite the crisis, and we had the strongest public finances. It was then possible to go back and evaluate reform for reform – precisely the kind of review and evaluation that the government now intends to avoid by not reporting, not being transparent and not being transparent. But times are different now, Minister of Finance. We have the Council of Finance Policy, the Institute of Economics, the Internet and more knowledgeable and aware citizens.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-147	Mr President, I would like to I think it would be good if Anette Åkesson and Niklas Wykman could talk together before the debate, because now I am repeatedly accused when I try to answer the questions I get. It was the case, Niklas Wykman, that I just got a question from Anette Åkesson that meant comparing apples and pears. I answered the question anyway, but I said at the same time that it is apples and pears. I did that by pointing out that the trainee jobs aren't supposed to last forever. Niklas Wykman said that it is important to report the effects of reforms, while Anette Åkesson said that it creates uncertainty when I report the effects of reforms. Here, Niklas Wykman and Anette Åkesson might want to talk a little bit. Niklas Wykman said the Alliance's actions had a very good effect. Then one is a little surprised because the restaurant VAT reform, which cost over SEK 5 billion, is estimated to provide between 1,000 and 3,000 jobs. It is a bit difficult to claim that it is very good effect. Then, according to the Moderates, there is the reduced employer's contribution, which, according to all the assessors, has little effect. They have changed their mind on this point and are now following the government. So it's very doubtful. We can now see that, with the government's labour market policy, employment is rising. Unemployment is falling, and youth unemployment is at the lowest level since 2002, if students are removed. When I answered Anette Åkesson's question, Niklas Wykman said that this is not a serious way of managing the economy. There I can promise to safe and calm Niklas Wykman. The government does not handle the economy on the basis of the questions we get in interpellation debates in the Riksdag.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-154	Mr President, I would like to Niklas Wykman has asked me if I have any calculations showing that the rate of self-financing increases when the RUT deduction is halved and whether I can guarantee that the demand by the Left Party to abolish the RUT deduction will not become government policy. Anette Åkesson has asked me how I comment on the development in Denmark as a result of the changes they made to their system, mainly during the year 2000, and why the development is not the same in Sweden. She has also asked me why it is more important to nail high-income workers than to increase the number of jobs for young and newcomers, reduce undeclared work and facilitate women's entrepreneurship. The government wants the RUT deduction to remain, and we have a deal with the bourgeois parties on efforts to strengthen the reception of asylum seekers and the establishment of new arrivals. As you know, the agreement includes the proposal to extend the RUT deduction to include additional gardening, floating and IT services at home. As I said earlier, the motives behind the changes in the RUT deduction that the government has previously implemented or proposed that the RUT deduction should not contribute to increasing the gap between students and that it should be directed more towards ordinary households. Therefore, the tax reduction for help with homework and other school work has been abolished, and therefore we want to implement the changes decided by the Riksdag in connection with the budget proposal for 2016. Furthermore, the self-financing rate of the RUT deduction is not assessed to a large extent as few RUT buyers are expected to be affected by the halving of the ceiling. As regards Denmark, they implemented comparatively large limits on their equivalent to the RUT deduction in the period 2000-2004. It is quite natural that payments of a tax reduction are reduced when restrictions are made. The payments of the RUT deduction are not estimated to decrease to the same extent as in Denmark as the changes proposed by the government are very small in comparison.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-160	Mr President, I would like to The RUT deduction is a success factor for the Swedish economy. It is a very great relief and a support for many people, such as those who, through the RUT deduction, have a job to go to, a clear purpose and a clear career, where they can develop as a person and earn their own living. It means a lot to have a job to go to. The RUT deduction, Mr President, was an important measure to repress the very great alienation left by the previous government of Magdalena Andersson. The RUT deduction has therefore contributed to increased gender equality and enabled many women to express their willingness to work and job satisfaction more effectively in the regular labour market. As a result, the pay gap has also been squeezed back. For example, the Minister for Finance, for the first time ever in Swedish history, a majority of Swedish women work full-time. It happened during the time of the Alliance. The RUT deduction was also important to maintain domestic demand in a very deep international economic crisis – the worst economic crisis since the depression. Nevertheless, 350 000 more jobs could be created in Sweden. Not all, and far from a majority, but many came about thanks to the RUT deduction. Mr President, I would like to This raises questions to the Minister for Finance. So we have a reform which, according to all the assessments I have taken note of, is self-financed. The RUT reform therefore pays for itself by fewer people living on subsidies, more people living on self-sufficiency, more consumers and more people participating in the economy by working themselves. In this way, the RUT reform finances itself. Yet this is precisely what the Minister for Finance is going on with a halving of the RUT deduction, which according to previous estimates from the Ministry of Finance is estimated to cost about 1 000 jobs. Despite the fact that, according to all the evaluators, it does not give a single krona into public finances, the Finance Minister is embarking on this reform. Mr President, I would like to So I wonder how the Minister of Finance is reasoning when she is standing here in the speaker's chair and embarks on the restaurant VAT as a very ineffective reform, but chooses to maintain the restaurant disability. Then the Minister for Finance stands here and says: RUT reform is effective, but I am going for it! What's the logic behind that? How can you want to maintain reforms that are considered ineffective, but instead choose to go after and weaken reforms that are considered effective? It may be, Mr President, that the Swedish people's record low confidence in the government and the record low figures of the Social Democrats in opinion polls is based precisely on the fact that politics is not connected, is not honest, has no clear purpose and does not have a clear basis. It seems more to be a patchwork to buy the support of the Left Party and the Green Party and at the same time to do everything to retain power. Then you can stand here and speak ill of reforms and then keep them and stand here and praise reforms and then halve them. It is not a policy that goes home.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-169	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by thanking the Minister for his reply, although I can see that my third question has not been answered at all. Throughout the autumn, the Minister of Finance has used three arguments to defend the deterioration of the RUT deduction. The first is that there are only small, very small or even minimal changes. The second is that only 1% of buyers are affected by the deterioration, and the third is that only the rich deterioration is hitting. I intend to respond to the arguments. That the deterioration caused by the S-MP is less, very small or minimal, can be discussed. The S-MP halves the sum, changes the services for which a deduction can be applied, introduces an age limit and complicates the rules as from the end of the year they will no longer be the same as for the ROT deduction. My interpellation is precisely about the impact of even minor changes on the regulatory framework. In Denmark, the changes in 2000 became a breakpoint when the industry turned from the growth sector to an industry in free fall. These changes were also considered small. The reduction rate for gardening was reduced to 35 per cent. Child collection was added, while animal fallbacks, window cleaning and removal gaskets were no longer included in the deductible services. But they were in and complicated, just as the Swedish government does. It was no longer as easy to remember what was going on, and signals were given that the industry is insecure. A few years later, in 2002, the reduction in cleaning was reduced from 50% to 40%, and smaller services were excluded. As a result, the industry continues to decline. Finally, it was introduced in 2004 that only pensioners may make deductions. Of course, one can only call that a major change, but at the same time that change did not hit so hard. The industry had already lost so much due to the earlier minor changes – from just under DKK 500 million in turnover per year in 2000 to less than SEK 100 million in 2004 – that this only meant that development stagnated and the curve was levelled out at a low level. To go into the other two arguments – that only 1% is affected and that only rich people are affected – I only partially question the substance, although the biggest increase in RUT deductions is among middle income earners. However, I question the relevance of the arguments. If you look at who has benefited from the RUT deductions, they are the ones who have received the new jobs. It is largely young and newcomers, groups who find it difficult to enter the labour market and those whose jobs were previously black and now white, thus giving them the right to contractual salaries and pension points. They are the ones who have been able to start a business because a new market has developed. It is the customers – both those who are rich and others – because the reduced tax wedges have made it possible to buy more services from things you would otherwise have done yourself, now with access to insurance. It is also the employers whose employees work a few hours extra to buy home service services. It is also society, which has received increased tax revenues in the form of income taxes and corporate taxes. I am sure I am missing someone or some categories, but these are at least six categories that benefit from the RUT deductions, which do not cost society anything. By wanting to reduce the conditions for the rich, who make up half a category, the government is deteriorating with open eyes to the other five and a half categories. Why doesn't the Minister of Finance count a job that serves rich as a real job?
i-97885b4d41c9754b-179	Mr President, I would like to What Anette Åkesson says is correct: The last question in her interpellation is not really answered in the interpellation answer. However, I have answered the question several times of the earlier 11 interpellation debates we have had on the RUT deduction. It is because we want to make this change because we want to target the RUT deduction more towards ordinary families. The background is that we want to strengthen the legitimacy of the system. I do not think Denmark is a particularly appropriate comparison of the changes that have been made to the Danish system and the change that we are now making in RUT. Denmark made a number of changes. Among other things, the subsidy rate for cleaning work, for example, was reduced from 60 to 40 per cent. It's a much bigger change than what we're doing. Windows were removed, just as Anette Åkesson correctly describes. It was 20 per cent of the RUT services that were purchased in Denmark at the time. So 20% was removed just by this, and it is, of course, a much greater change than the 1% change that we are making. At the end of the year, too – which is what has really reduced subsidies in Denmark – has changed the deduction so that it now only goes to pensioners and to a maximum amount of DKK 6 000 per year. Of course, it is not possible to compare with the minimal change that we are making in Sweden. Niklas Wykman claims for some inscrutable reason that this is a halving of the RUT deduction. Of course it is not. It is a halving of the ceiling, but the subsidy rate of the RUT deduction remains. This is estimated to affect approximately 1 percent of RUT buyers, given that they have an average income of almost SEK 1 million. The assessment may be that they may continue to purchase the services even when they no longer receive this RUT subsidy. The point of the change is, as I said, to strengthen the legitimacy of the system. But we're making a very small change. It should be compared to the change we make in the ROT, which is considerably larger. Among other things, ROT is a significantly less cost-effective subsidy than RUT work. That's why we make a distinction in how we make the changes. Of course, there is a logic in how the government chooses to make different tax changes. The ROT subsidy is significantly more expensive per job. That's where we make a bigger change. RUT is much more cost-effective. There we are making a very small change. The employer's contribution for young people is cost-effective, and we will remove it completely. Of course we have a discussion in the government about what tax changes we are making and about the reasons behind its a. As far as restaurant VAT is concerned, it is well known that we, from the Social Democrats, went to elections to change restaurant VAT while the Green Party, the other part of the government, went to elections not to change it.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-186	Mr President, I would like to The environmental party's influence in the government has been noticed a little bit and so at the end. It is certainly possible for the Minister of Finance to pursue the policy she wants. The Minister of Finance says that there is obviously a discussion in the government about the tax reforms and reforms it implements. It is good to the government for that kind of reasoning, but it is a recurring logic on the part of the government not to announce these reasonings to the Swedish people. It does not want to be open and transparent and not to present its reasoning and estimates of the reforms in terms of what they might have for impact or how they might affect the economy. These reasonings choose the government to keep quiet and not to announce the rest of us, not to tell about, but in closed rooms to sit and reason, and then try to politicise the discussion as much as possible in true SSU-and a. I do not think that is worthy of a Minister of Finance and a government in 2015. Mr President, I would like to It is urgent to ask the government how to reason. The job tax deduction has been repeatedly criticised by Magdalena Andersson for not being good, although it is estimated to lead to about 130 000 more jobs. Yet the government retains the job tax deductions. It is true that there is a deterioration and a reduction in job tax deductions, which means that Sweden is now receiving the world's highest marginal taxes. We have tested this before, and it ended in more or less economic disaster for this country. Yet the government chooses to do so. But basically you keep the job tax deductions. The large parts of the job tax deductions are retained, despite the fact that they are highly criticised. The restaurant VAT is also highly criticized and says it is ineffective, but it is kept. It criticises the previous government for removing the property tax, for not doing the right kind of reforms in the housing market and for not taxing people more for their homes. Magdalena Andersson has several times been very clear that the big mistake of the alliance government was that it removed the property tax and not raised other taxes on housing. Yet the government does not raise the tax on housing. You don't reintroduce property tax. In the case of the RUT deduction, on the other hand, which benefits many groups that find it difficult to make themselves heard in society, such as foreign born with a weak establishment in the labour market, the government dares to take a hard shot. Against women, who are burdened with taking a great responsibility at home for cleaning, washing and children and thus miss out on opportunities in their working lives, the government is able to strike. Against people born abroad, young people with a weak position in the labour market and women who are burdened by standards of responsibility at home, the government dares to strike with deterioration. Against the homeowners, on the other hand, no, where the government does not dare and is not able to do so, but on this issue, it is simply floking against previous governments. Is it not a little strange from a point of view of power analysis, as we might call it, because the Left Party is part of the government's budget base, that it is acting in this way? Deteriorations can be brought forward for those groups that have the most difficulty in making their voices heard, but in the case of others, they are content to criticise previous governments. The Minister of Finance is making some kind of negative description of my question about halving the RUT deductions and claiming that they are not halved at all. Of those who hear it and get their possibility of deduction reduced from 50 000 SEK to 25 000 SEK, most with a little simple mathematics would probably think that it is actually a halving. 25 000 times two is 50 000 and 50 000 divided by two is 25 000, and then you probably feel that you have got a halvation. So much contact with reality, a finance minister should have that she realizes.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-193	Mr President, I would like to As I said before, I have only had one interpellation on this subject, and I stressed when I wrote this interpellation that it was written only because I did not get an answer to this question. This was particularly true of Denmark, but I have received an answer to that now. Time and again, we are accused of fighting for the rich. I would argue that M battles for the jobs and thus young and new arrivals who got white jobs, all customers regardless of income, those, mostly women, who have started companies that had good growth until the threat of deterioration of the conditions from the S-MP government came, the employers who have got a little less stressed workers and the society that got increased tax revenues. But the S-MP, on the other hand, doesn't care about any of these, as long as they get to frame rich RUT buyers. Yes, the latter is, of course, my own interpretation, but since I do not receive any other answer from the Minister for Finance, it is so far undisputed. So far, the Minister of Finance has not put forward any argument as to why it chooses to reduce conditions. It does not add any extra to the tax box, as you might think. I can imagine from the rhetoric that the Social Democrats have ideological misgivings. I definitely disagree, because in principle everyone benefits from the RUT deductions remaining, not specifically those with high incomes. But if so, why not stand for it? There is a clear risk that even the minor deteriorations and complexity of the system will have the same effects as in Denmark. Why would the S-MP government risk that? As I said, the curve was broken in 2000, and at that time the changes were not very big. Why does the S-MP risk worsening for an industry that has low thresholds to enter the labour market, which does not require direct training and which can be a good way to enter the labour market when you do not know Swedish and here you get the opportunity to learn? The RUT jobs are step-in jobs. Why make it more difficult for them? And why is the customer's income crucial? What does it mean for the job how much money a customer earns? The crucial benefits of the RUT deductions come to their own regardless of the income of the customers. In which other industry is it crucial what the customer earns?
i-97885b4d41c9754b-200	Mr President, I would like to In Denmark in 2000, when it was a case of how much deduction was made for RUT services, there were run-in problems at the tax authority. That probably explains why it dived in the beginning and then recovered quite quickly when the run-in problems were over. Niklas Wykman thinks that we at the Ministry of Finance should openly account for all our arguments. That's an interesting idea. Maybe we should have live broadcasts online from the Ministry of Finance's meetings to account for our internal reasoning. However, it was nothing, as I recall, that they had during the time when Niklas Wykman worked at the Ministry of Finance. The government reports its reasoning in the budget bill where we justify why we make the various changes we make in both taxes and expenses. Niklas Wykman says that the RUT deduction is important for people, not least women, who need support to work and take advantage of the labour market. For those women who need this kind of support to take on themselves and make a career, there is also no change, and I do not think that those women who have an average income of SEK 960 000, i.e. almost 1 million a year, need government subsidies to take on the labour market.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-203	Mr President, I would like to Perhaps we should lower the debater somewhat and reflect on what the Minister of Finance says. The Minister of Finance says that high-income women do not need support and help from politics. This isn't just about high-income women. The Minister of Finance may put together the whole household economy here, choose an average of the income of those who earn a lot and perhaps mix men's income into women's income in this calculation, and can then, on the basis of these assumptions, state that they do not need support and help. Mr President, I would like to I am absolutely convinced that the structures and standards that exist between men and women in the labour market, in their homes and in relations affect all women. The RUT deduction has been important for those with a weak establishment in the labour market to get in and get a chance – perhaps learn a language and perhaps have the opportunity to develop in their professional skills – and for women to increase their participation in the labour market. The Minister for Finance therefore imagines that as soon as income is high, equality is there. I'm not convinced of that at all. This is not true, and you can see that if you look at violence statistics and crime statistics or if you measure differences in how much is cleaned at home, who takes care of the children, picks up preschools and so on. In any case, it is clear to me that there is inequality also in high-income families. If you are serious about wanting gender equality, it cannot be just for those who have a certain income. My ambition for gender equality is to apply to all men and all women regardless of what you have in the wage envelope, and here the Finance Minister is embarking on a reform that creates gender equality. Apparently, it's okay not to have equality for some people.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-207	Mr President, I would like to As I understand it, I have not received answers to my questions about why a job that means serving rich people does not count as a real job, nor why the customer's income is crucial, according to the Minister of Finance. That is regrettable. Unfortunately, this risks leading to another interpellation. But perhaps the Minister for Finance will give the answer in his last speech. Unfortunately, the Minister for Finance shows that the policy of S-MP symbolises jobs. Although it is still tough for young and newcomers to enter the labour market, they want to risk dramatically worsening the conditions for the RUT industry. The threat of deterioration of conditions has already halted the growth of the domestic services industry. There is no other argument than the ideological one. All you have to do is regret it. The S-MP does not want to realise that a job is a job, even if the customer has a high income and that that job allows the employee to get a foothold in the labour market, maybe learn Swedish, get pension points and other things that belong to the white jobs. Nevertheless, I would like to thank the Minister for Finance for the debate. I guess we're mutually happy not to see each other for a while, and I wish you a Merry Christmas.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-211	Mr President, I would like to No, I'm not at all happy not to see Anette Åkesson. On the contrary, I will miss Anette Åkesson during the Christmas holidays and promise to send her a thought, perhaps not on Christmas Eve but definitely on Christmas Day. I appreciate the interesting interpellation debates we have. Anette Åkesson asks if the customer's income is crucial. Of course, the customer's income is not decisive. We have raised the average income of those who will be affected by this as I want to show that it is not unlikely that those people will continue to buy RUT services, because they have very high incomes. Niklas Wykman wonders where this task comes from. It's average income. It is important to emphasise that. I share Niklas Wykman's view that the inequality that exists in society exists in all walks of life. Inequality is found among women who earn much, and inequality is found among women who earn less. Therefore, of course, all women need support in different forms, in order for equality in all walks of life in Sweden to increase. In the case of support for buying cleaning and other household services for more than 25 000 a year, this support is not as important for people who on average earn 960 000 SEK a year. Niklas Wykman claims that there is no support if you have a high income. It's not like that. Like everyone else, you get a grant of up to SEK 25 000 a year. From an international perspective, compared with Denmark, for example, it is extremely generous. The government is making very limited reforms in the RUT system. This affects about 1% of buyers. They have an income of about 1 million. Those are the facts on the table.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-217	Mr President, I would like to Niklas Wykman has asked me how the government views the next year's increased expenditure from the Treasury and whether I plan to cover the next year's budget deficit by increasing Sweden's public debt. Niklas Wykman has also asked me how the resulting situation affects the path of public finances. Niklas Wykman seems to have forgotten the large deficit in public finances that existed when this government took office, which was largely a consequence of the unfunded tax cuts carried out by the previous government. Since then, the government has put forward economic proposals that have contributed to an improvement in public finances. The deficit has almost halved compared to last year, while structural savings have been strengthened. At the moment, many people are seeking asylum in Sweden. The government, together with the Moderates among others, has developed an amending budget for 2015 in response to the emergency situation we find ourselves in. The proposals in the amending budget are financed by increased government borrowing and, in total, the expenditure increases by SEK 11 billion. Work is also under way within the Government Office to review possible measures to finance various expenditure increases that may occur in the coming years. Depending on the evolution of public finances and migration flows, this may involve ways to mitigate cost increases, savings in future budgets and loan financing. I intend to come back with new forecasts before the end of the year, including a forecast of the development of public finances in the coming years. The government will continue to pursue a responsible economic policy that contributes to the trend strengthening of financial savings. For the rest, Niklas Wykman's claim that eight out of ten households get worse finances according to the Ministry of Finance's calculations is not correct, as I have also pointed out on previous occasions.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-222	Mr President, I would like to To start where the Minister of Finance left off, you can read this in Svenska Dagbladet: It's experienced by SvD. But the budget proposal does not include the figures, which are normally shown in the financial plan. The person who has made the decision to lift out of the figures is Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson. ..................................................... It is not at all certain that what is written in Svenska Dagbladet is true. On the other hand, the tedious and darkening nature of the government's fiscal policy leads to speculation. It does not account in an open and transparent manner for the reforms that are being pursued and their effects. Transparency is important for us to have a good and qualified debate. Eighty per cent of households receive a worse economy or a worse disposable income, but perhaps not if the effects of the autumn and spring budgets are taken into account. It's possible. But since it is not clearly presented and in the way it has been done in the past, there is speculation. My call to the government is therefore to stop politicising and darkening. Then the debate will also be better. Mr President, I would like to This debate is about the Minister of Finance claiming that deficits are halved with the government's policy. But it is the Alliance's budget that has been in force and that has halved the deficits. I call on the Minister for Finance to be clear about what the reality is and what the conditions have been. The Swedish Financial Control Agency has presented the latest assessment of the economy. There we see that in the years to come labour force participation is expected to fall, employment is expected to fall and unemployment is expected to rise. This will happen after a few years of strong economic activity, this and next year. In the long term, we see a very worrying development for the Swedish economy with lower labour force participation, lower employment and higher unemployment. We are concerned about how the government chooses to use the money available. Of the approximately SEK 150 billion that the government will use in the years ahead, SEK 45 billion goes to grants, transfers and labour market policies. These are things that do not strengthen the Swedish economy, employment, labour force participation and competitiveness. You can compare the EUR 45 billion spent by the Finance Minister on grants, transfers and Ams policies with the EUR 13 billion spent on education or the EUR 10 billion spent on communications and infrastructure. The large part, the lion's share, of the budget is therefore spent on subsidies, transfers and labour market policies. The Swedish Financial Control Authority is predicting that deficits will increase public finances, from 42 billion in the current year to 57 billion in 2017. In total, according to the calculations presented by the government, we are talking about SEK 230 billion in accumulated deficit over the years to come. It is good that the Minister for Finance has announced on a debate page today that she has chosen to postpone some of the Green Party's least effective efforts in the state budget. This concerns the nationalisation of forests and other measures that do not benefit jobs at all, but are perhaps, on the contrary, negative. On the other hand, the lack of clear accounts of the economy remains. It has not yet been done. The Minister of Finance says it's coming. We are seriously concerned that we have a finance department that seems to have lost position in the government and that expenditure is now not being tested and transparently accounted for in terms of their effectiveness.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-233	Mr President, I would like to The problem with Niklas Wykman's claim of eight out of ten households is that he interprets the table incorrectly. I can explain the wrong interpretation after the interpellation debate is closed. I thought Niklas Wykman might have learned to interpret tables during his years at the Ministry of Finance. This government has taken responsibility for public finances from the day we took office. The first budget bill that we put on Parliament's table had a very tight framework. We put forward proposals in which we greatly reduced deficits. Then the former alliance government presented a joint budgetary motion that went through. It was based on the same framework as the government bill. There, last year, we had the same proposal on how to shape fiscal policy as a whole, not, of course, in terms of content, but that it was an urgent time to tighten up public finances. When the Moderates ruled the Ministry of Finance, they borrowed to fulfill their election promises, their large tax cuts, which were completely unfunded and completely wrong in the economic situation that prevailed. Then we tabled a spring amending budget in which we had a very tight fiscal policy, and it is the same in the budget that we have presented and which has now been decided by Parliament. All in all, this shows that this government has a very responsible economic policy. We have halved the deficits, and one thing is clear: as large deficits as Niklas Wykman left when he left the Ministry of Finance, this government will not have.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-238	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that the Minister for Finance wants to explain to me how to read tables. I do not believe that this is the main concern of the Minister for Finance, but rather that it is not transparently and transparently reporting the effects of government policy. This should be made clear by the government in the tables available. I refer to the data that have been in the media and to the choice to go from reporting per household to per individual. Then they have moved tables, removed effects and so on. This led to this kind of discussion. If the government chooses to be open and transparent and does not politicise its state documents, this kind of discussion will also disappear. Having said that, the Minister for Finance has given two very positive answers. One is that it is the Alliance's budget that has halved the deficits. It is a welcome message to the Swedish people. I look forward to the Minister of Finance continuing to repeat it when she talks about the halved deficits, that it is thanks to the budget that the Alliance pushed through in this House. The second very positive message from the Minister for Finance is that the expenditure ceilings apply as they have also been decided for 2017 and 2018. It provides stability for the Swedish economy. It creates security in markets and it allows you to have greater confidence in the Swedish economy to recover in a safe and sustainable way. Now it remains for the Minister of Finance to live up to this, too, when the Left Party, the Green Party and the left wing of the Social Democrats cry out for greater spending. There are things to question in what the Minister of Finance says. We now have a crisis, said the Minister of Finance, so we borrow SEK 11 billion. The deficits can rise more than we expected. In 2008, there was a much greater crisis in economic, not humanitarian, terms. There was a very big fall on the world market. At that time, of course, the Alliance government borrowed some money because it had a deficit in public finances. At the beginning of 2006, 2007 and 2008, the Alliance had very large surpluses, which together with the surpluses that the Swedish Government Persson had enabled us to face the recession and the crisis effectively. Now the Minister for Finance accuses the bourgeois government of having pursued an active fiscal policy during the crisis to support jobs and growth. Now it is another type of crisis, and then you should of course borrow money. Of course, this kind of politicised reasoning causes the public to lose confidence in politics, politicians, the Ministry of Finance and the government. One politicizes a reasoning so mildly that no human can hold it too likely that it is actually true. Therefore, my question to the Minister for Finance is whether she can assess, beyond the expenditure ceiling, when the economy returns to balance. Or when does the economy return to surplus? This kind of accounting is missing from the Minister for Finance, and it creates insecurity. Then it does not help that some of the most cost-driven efforts of the Green Party have to wait or perhaps even be totally absent. It does not secure Swedish resistance. We know that the American economy is doing well, but only about half as well as it usually does in a recovery phase. China adapts its growth to significantly lower numbers. What this can mean for Swedish companies, Swedish exports, world markets, mineral markets, forest industries and the automotive industry and other things is still unclear. There are strong reasons why Sweden should have shelters in the economy. We in Sweden are in debt, but the outside world is even more indebted. We are an export-dependent country, and the Finance Minister does not report how our shelters will last the next time.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-246	Mr President, I would like to Niklas Wykman's main attack is now at what point the Ministry of Finance is coming up with new forecasts. We come up with new forecasts just at the same time as during the time Niklas Wykman worked at the Ministry of Finance. If Niklas Wykman has no major objection to the government's policy than when we come up with forecasts, I can of course have a discussion with the Moderates about the timing at which it is appropriate to provide new forecasts. Niklas Wykman claims that I have criticised the moderate-led government for how it acted during the financial crisis. That's not correct. I have never criticised the Moderates for pursuing an expansive fiscal policy during the crisis itself. My criticism has been directed at the continued implementation of major tax cuts as the economic cycle turned upwards at the end of the last parliamentary term. It was not a balanced policy, and many have criticized the Moderates for doing so. Instead of taking responsibility for public finances, they chose to borrow in order to fulfil their electoral promises and to debt the entire Swedish people to lower taxes, especially for those who earn the most. I have criticised the Moderates for this, and so have many others. It is not a balanced policy to continue to increase deficits as the economic cycle rises. It is also the result of eight years of alliance rule. The deficits continued to increase every year, and it is no wonder that they did so during the financial crisis. But the fact that they continued to grow and became larger in 2014 than during the financial crisis itself cannot be defended. It's irresponsible. That is why the policy needed to be changed, and we did so when we gained the power of government. Then we set up very tight frames. With our budget, deficits were halved, and because the budget movement presented by the Alliance was based on our framework, deficits were also halved. But the government's budget, which was based on it, had halved the deficit. The result of this government's policy is that public finances will be strengthened. I will report this when I make a prognosis, and it will not be long. Then we will see how we are constantly strengthening public finances. But one thing is very clear: the irresponsible policy that was pursued with unfunded reforms that increase deficits when there is no crisis, either in the economy or any other temporary crisis that one cannot influence, which was conducted when Niklas Wykman was at the Ministry of Finance, this government will never lead. There Niklas Wykman can feel very safe and calm. I won't do like Niklas Wykman.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-252	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Finance, for a committed speech! As the Minister of Finance knows, it is important to take measures throughout the crisis and also in the aftermath of the crisis to avoid what is called perseverance effects, that is, unemployment will persist for a long time. There was also a wish on the part of the European Community that those countries which could pursue an expansionary policy to lift the whole of the EU area out of the economic crisis that still existed and which still exists in some countries. Of course, Sweden will be an active player in the international work. It benefits Swedish jobs and Swedish growth in the long term. I wasn't gonna be polemic. I was going to spend my last minute wishing the Minister for Finance a really merry Christmas. Being a finance minister is a tough and demanding job that deserves great respect from everyone in this House and from the entire Swedish people. It is an institution that is very important for the whole of Sweden. I may not agree with Magdalena Andersson on everything she says. However, I do not question one of her efforts to make Sweden work well. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to wish the Minister for Finance a really merry Christmas. We are experiencing an abundance of time around Christmas, and we and many other countries have the opportunity to share in this material surplus, surplus of food, and so on. Then you can of course reflect on the people who have very little. Many of them have recently gone to Sweden. I am very pleased to have a Prime Minister who takes this situation very seriously. I hope that the Minister for Finance will come back with more proposals and reforms that will allow the people who have now sought war and misery at least next Christmas to celebrate a really merry Christmas in the world's best country, Sweden. I would like to wish the Minister of Finance Merry Christmas and Happy New Year!
i-97885b4d41c9754b-260	Mr President, I would like to I would like to take this opportunity to wish Niklas Wykman a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year. I would also like to thank Niklas Wykman for all the refreshing debates we have had in this House. It is good that the Moderates have been able to cooperate with the government on the migration agreement. In that part of politics, the handshake still applies, which I think is very good. With regard to the supplementary amending budget, too, the handshake we have taken still applies. I very much appreciate this type of cooperation, just as I naturally appreciate these debates. And just as I said that I promise to send a thought to Anette Åkesson during my leave, I promise to also send a special thought to Niklas Wykman at the appropriate time during the Christmas holidays.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-261	Mr President, I would like to Gunilla Nordgren has asked me if I am prepared to act and to work for clarification regarding the renting of refugee housing so that they are to be considered temporary accommodation with VAT duty and the right to deduct input VAT. For example, Gunilla Nordgren points to an amendment to the Planning and Construction Regulation. Renting of accommodation to refugees may be short-term rental of accommodation in hotel activities, or similar activities, which are subject to VAT and give the right to deduct VAT. In the case of permanent rental of such dwellings, the rental is VAT-free and there is therefore no right to deduction. It is the task of the Tax Agency and the courts to apply applicable legislation and interpret practice. A change in the conditions for collecting VAT shall be made in a parliamentary decision by amending the VAT Act. If there is a change in the regulatory framework, the government will come back with proposals.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-265	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for the interpellation response, which, however, I am not very pleased with, because I am not getting an answer to the question. I have previously asked a written question and received the same indecent answer. The background to my question is a judgment of the Supreme Administrative Court of October 2015 stating that an accommodation for unaccompanied children at HVB homes, etc., constitutes permanent residence and is therefore not eligible for a VAT deduction. Now there is great concern in the country, and it cannot have passed by the Minister of Finance. At present, there is a great lack of housing for asylum seekers. The Finnish Immigration Service is searching with light and lantern for new accommodations. Then it is very unfortunate that such doubts about what should be considered permanent housing should continue. The Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, Property Owners, Entrepreneurs, Visita, SKL and the Swedish Financial Control Agency have pointed to this issue. More and more private companies that have holiday villages, hostels, bed and breakfasts and more now hesitate to bid. There are many companies that are now at risk of a retroactive refund of VAT due due to the attitude of the Tax Agency. Renting of ordinary dwellings is not subject to VAT. That's right. The owner of the property must not then deduct VAT. That is the so-called deduction ban, a rather outdated rule. The problem is that the Swedish Tax Agency has begun to interpret HVB housing and asylum housing as permanent housing. It is a kind of extension of the deduction ban. One interpretation is that these people have no other address on which they are written. But in my mind, I can't see asylum living as a permanent residence. There have also been various reports from various tax offices in the country. The IRS has promised to come up with a position, but it will take some time. At least I couldn't see anything on the website just now. In the previous debates it has been mentioned that it is very important to answer the questions. Now the Minister for Finance has a chance to give me an answer instead of reading out how to change the VAT law. In that case, the government may return to Parliament – see, I know that too. That is not my question. Now I hope that I can receive a reply today from the Minister of Finance as to whether she is prepared to work for this by providing clarifications to the Tax Agency and so on to remove this hesitation.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-273	Mr President, I would like to I really wish there was a simple answer to Gunilla Nordgrens's question. In that case, Gunilla Nordgren would get the simple answer. The problem is that this is not an easy issue to solve. Nor can I give instructions to the Swedish Tax Agency on how to interpret the legislation. It would be to exercise ministerial rule, and one of Gunilla Nordgrens's party friends would immediately KU-enrol me if I did so. What you do in Parliament is make laws. Then it is the Swedish Tax Agency and the courts that interpret those laws. Under VAT legislation, permanent residence is not subject to VAT, while hotel activities are subject to VAT. It is courts and the Tax Agency that interpret what is permanent residence and not. Gunilla Nordgren had an idea that you could change the planning and construction regulation to clarify what is permanent housing and not. The problem is that the law governs the regulation. So that would not solve this problem. What could be considered is to amend the VAT legislation on which services are to be covered by VAT and which are not to be covered by VAT. This could mean a change for everyone who rents their dwelling, for all tenants, for anyone who rents student housing. That would be a very far-reaching change. If Gunilla Nordgren thinks she does not get a clear answer to the question, the problem is that unfortunately there is no simple answer to the question. That does not stop us having to look further at this issue to see if anything can be done, but unfortunately there is no simple change.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-280	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Financial Control Agency has been commissioned by the Government to make a report and evaluation. They point out that even the state has a problem with this. The prison services had problems with renting out a prison as an asylum resident and suddenly were not allowed to deduct the VAT. SKL has pointed to this issue in its 32-point list, or how many there are now, as what I have seen last updated on 10 December. I also believe that SKL has sent a request to the government these days. I haven't found it anywhere, though. It is extremely important that these ambiguities arise. MSB and the Migration Agency have problems. Who will compensate those who risk paying back VAT ten years back? There are examples in my part of the country of activities that have been hotel operations all the time but that have suddenly been revalued by the Swedish Tax Agency and therefore may not give the right to deduct VAT. It is not a question of renting out ordinary dwellings, which the VAT deduction rule refers to, but we are talking about asylum homes and HVB housing. Now we will be able to have the support housing that we decided on the other day. Then these things must be investigated. Now that the Migration Agency has ongoing procurements, some owners of holiday villages do not know, and so on, whether they should be allowed to deduct VAT. The Finnish Immigration Service is based on 12 per cent VAT, but entrepreneurs no longer know if they dare to bid, because then they risk not getting it together. Besides, it won't be cheaper. We heard about that this morning. I find it unfortunate that this has not been taken up in the past. Various interest groups have been pushing the issue for at least a year and a half, such as Visita, who had an article the other day. We were told by Dagens Eko by the municipal chairman of Gagnef that they were not allowed to deduct for an HVB home, which apparently costs the 2 million that they could have spent on the accommodation instead. This is an emergency. We know what it looks like in the country. SKL believes that clarification could be provided. I think the government has a chance to do it quickly. Then you can review the VAT Act and take it through the Riksdag, which takes more time. If it is possible to make a clarification, I think that one should try to do so. What I am calling for is a will from the government. The answers I have received to my written question and my interpellation have been that this should be decided in Parliament and that one should return. There are no answers that are helpful in a situation that we know is acute. The Migration Agency has huge problems, and so it gets stuck in the fact that the Tax Agency suddenly extends the deduction ban and also does not get loose with a position, as they have promised to do in December. It was supposed to come today, it was called, but now it doesn't seem to come before Christmas. This is extremely important. That is why I wonder whether the Minister of Finance is prepared to use all the different means – without being guilty of ministerial government, of course – to draw attention to this extremely important issue.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-287	Mr President, I would like to Gunilla Nordgren is quite right that it creates problems and uncertainty for many of those who would like to allow places and beds to temporary asylum accommodations or long-term asylum accommodations and accommodations for unaccompanied minors, for example. It is very unfortunate that uncertainty has arisen and that it risks that potential accommodations will not become accommodations, which is particularly important in this situation. It is the Swedish Tax Agency itself that decides when it comes with clarifications and guidelines. It's not something we run from the Ministry of Finance. Unfortunately, the proposal that SKL made to amend the regulation will not solve the situation either, because the law goes before the regulation. What you then need to do is look at whether you can make a change in the law. As Gunilla Nordgren knows, it is quite complicated, especially as I believe that neither I nor Gunilla Nordgren want anyone living in a rental agreement to risk paying VAT on the rent. That is the problem with legislation.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-290	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that the Minister for Finance is now giving me a more straightforward answer than in the answers to the written question and the question in the interpellation. At least it's up on the track, you can hope. The problem is that the Swedish Tax Agency has a change of attitude. In addition, they provide different information at different tax offices. Maybe you could talk to them about that. Among other things, they sometimes take into account the writing address. It goes without saying that if you come here as an asylum seeker or as an unaccompanied child or youth, you do not have a written address in Sweden. It's pretty clear. Of course, it should not apply to all rental apartments. It should depend on how clearly it is written in the legislation that it should not apply to rental apartments. One can well point out asylum housing, HVB housing and support housing, which is the new form, and so on. You cannot punish government authorities, municipalities and private entrepreneurs who suddenly do not know in which region they live. Are they to be deducted from VAT or not? They may be rebuilding their facilities, holiday villages and other things, expanding the laundry room or whatever it may be. Then they do not know whether they are allowed to deduct VAT for that cost. It's totally unsatisfactory. I hope that the Minister of Finance will keep a close eye on this and begin to think about making rapid and clear changes so that it does not apply to rentals as such. Otherwise, I would like to join in wishing you a Merry Christmas. We will see you in January for new debates.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-295	Mr President, I would like to I would like to wish Gunilla Nordgren a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year. I would also like to thank Gunilla Nordgren for raising an urgent issue in the interpellation debate. It is important that we focus the light on the uncertainty that exists. I believe that both I and Gunilla Nordgren hope that the Swedish Tax Agency will be clear about its position so that we clarify the situation and what applies to everyone who is now considering whether they can lease their properties to asylum accommodation or housing for unaccompanied children, for example. That would, of course, be very good. We will look at whether anything can be done in the legislation. But as I pointed out, it is complicated. We usually try in legislation not to be so specific that we line up exactly what forms of accommodation it should apply. We usually try to work with more general legislation. It is then up to the law-enforcement authorities to assess the more precise content of this. Of course we will look at how we can proceed with this. I hope that it has been made clear long before then by the Swedish Tax Agency being clear about its position.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-299	Mr President, I would like to Mikael Oscarsson has asked me how I reason on the question of Swedish coastal robot in accordance with the Swedish Defence Committee. Mikael Oscarsson has also asked me whether I think it is reasonable today to decommission an existing radar system that can instead be upgraded and used for a coastal robot system, which the Defence Committee has expressed a need for. The single most important thing during the period of defence orientation is to increase the operational capability of the armed forces and to ensure the overall capability of the total defence. It is important that the Swedish Armed Forces focus on building up and supporting the war units that are part of the war organization today. This is a priority that we have agreed in a broad political agreement – an agreement that the Christian Democrats have also endorsed. It is the Riksdag and the Government that decides on the overall structure of the Armed Forces Organisation. On this basis, the Swedish Armed Forces determine the detailed design of the military units in order to meet the demands of the state authorities for operational military capabilities. The Swedish Armed Forces' defence logistics plan is revised annually in March, whereby the Swedish Agency carries out trade-offs regarding which equipment systems should be maintained or modified to optimise the operational capabilities of the armed forces. This includes considering whether updates to systems that are not in use are more important than actions on equipment systems that are part of today's war units. The Swedish Armed Forces' decision to decommission an existing radar system is part of the ongoing priority the authority implements in its operations. It is worth noting in this context that the decision on total disengagement through the sale of the ArtE 740/T radar patrol car was taken on 29 November 2012 – i.e. during the previous government's term of office. Due to the lease of the system, the decommissioning was delayed, and on 29 May 2015 the total resolution decision was repealed in order to meet the vehicle needs of the Telewar Battalion. As Minister of Defence, I cannot and should not run the authority on individual matters. I have full confidence in the Swedish Armed Forces' priorities, and our common goal is to increase the operational capability of the armed forces here and now. The defence committee's report, The defence of Sweden – a tartar defence for an uncertain time, is the basis for the development of Sweden's defence. I have no other opinion than that the Armed Forces should analyse and test the possibility of re-establishing a ground-based coastal missile unit. However, within the framework of the increased defence allocation, established by a broad defence policy agreement, there are no financial resources available for the reintroduction of a coastal missile unit. It is important that the supply of equipment focuses on reduced costs and delivery times by using and maintaining, as far as possible, existing materials in the war organisation. As regards the need for future material systems, after the defence decision-making period, an investigation will be set up to review the Swedish Armed Forces' long-term material needs. The material investigation will be completed in 2018 and will form the basis for the Government's and the Defence Committee's continued work ahead of the next defence-oriented decision.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-307	Madam President, I would like In June this year, the Riksdag decided to increase its defence capabilities. This means keeping existing equipment. Instead of buying new expensive systems, one should primarily modernise what one has. This is also reflected in a government decision of 25 June. In the Swedish Defence Committee's report, we say that the Swedish Armed Forces should analyse and test the possibility and the operational effect of new target robot becoming available as ground-based reinforcement on Gotland in the form of coastal robot. I have therefore taken an interest in a system known as ArtE 740 which has cost taxpayers 630 million. The Secretary of Defense and I had a debate on this on 12 November. Then it was said that one of the five systems is intact and four are dismantled and lying on pallets. The background is that four radar stations have been leased to the UK and Australia, which have used them to protect their troops in Afghanistan. To my knowledge, they are located in a hot garage in the naval port of Muskö. The Secretary of Defense also said then that we basically only got back vehicles with masts. That is why, Madam President, I thought I would go out and look at this. What does it look like? It was a very interesting visit, which I recommend to the Secretary of Defense. This is a very competent system. When you open the armored door at the back you can see that the vehicle is filled with radar electronics. The British have themselves paid for a renovation of the control room and graduated the system into a more modern version. All equipment is fixed inside the wagon. What is missing to start the radar system in the armored vehicle is a radar antenna at the top of the vehicle's mast. It has been bought and kept by the British to use themselves. Reportedly, it would cost about 15 million. It was also said in the debate that there had been no maintenance for years. But the vehicle that I had the opportunity to ride around can go on highways in 120. It is therefore very good. You can move them and use them in different ways. We based it, when we tried it out there, in two minutes and could get the antenna up. It was said then that no maintenance had taken place in years, but what I was looking at had only been 50 miles. And it was inspected as late as January 2014. In Arboga there are two similar radar stations that have also been leased to Australia. They were delivered after completion and tests, so that everything would be in top condition, as late as September 25 this year. Saab took the opportunity to turn on its own antennas, 3D antennas, to demonstrate that the radar system works. The expert who was out there, Magnus Aronsson at FMV, says: I personally believe that relatively small measures are needed to restore and develop the system's capabilities. It will be cheaper to build on the system we have instead of buying a completely new radar system, which will probably be much more expensive and will take several years. Then I'll come back to the question. The Secretary of Defense says that the material investigation will look at this. Is it not reasonable to ensure that this is not phased out without first looking at whether this can fit into the system that we want in the future?
i-97885b4d41c9754b-318	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Armed Forces have now officially, on their website, given their picture of the situation. I do not think I have any reason to question it. What you write is: The Swedish Armed Forces claim that the Swedish Armed Forces wants to scrap a modern radar system for SEK 630 million. ..................................................... It's a truth with modification. It goes on to write: The mobile radar system called ArtE 740 was designed for the management of coastal artillery, but before it was commissioned, the Swedish Parliament decided that the coast artillery would be dismantled. The Swedish Armed Forces therefore had no need for radar stations and the system was never introduced into the unit structure and remained in FMV's care. ..................................................... So this is a system that is not part of today's war organization. It goes on to write: 中 Analyses and attempts were made to find new uses, but it turned out that the benefits did not correspond to the cost and in November 2012 a decision was made on total decommissioning. But since Britain and Australia had then leased four radar systems for the operation in Afghanistan, FM was waiting for the decommissioning. There was also no reason to install Swedish management and liaison systems or to acquire radar antennas and identification function when returning after the operation in Afghanistan. In May 2015, the total decommissioning decision was repealed to use the investment in the vehicles in the system – the twelve armored cars have now been redeployed to other units that need splinter-protected vehicles. In the media it has been suggested that ArtE 740 would be needed on Gotland if, after 2020, the Swedish Armed Forces were required to reinstate a coastal robot unit. The media has also argued that the system will be as modern as the UDE 23 anti-aircraft system used today, as long as a new antenna is installed. This is an over-simplified picture and the price data on the acquisition of new radar antennas that have floated in the media are not correct. The cost is significantly higher. Radar receivers and transmitters in the ArtE system are in good condition, but it is far from a complete system. In order to be operational and integrated into today's unit structure or into a possible newly developed coastal robot unit in the future, radar antennas, identification functions and command and control systems are required. In addition, staff are required to be seconded, trained and trained. The modification is considered costly and cannot be justified under the current circumstances. The development, supply and staffing of today's military units is a priority over the modification of materials not part of the war organization. To sum up, it is the Swedish Armed Forces' assessment that the cost of deploying the system does not correspond to the operational benefit. The fixed sensor chain together with the corvette type Visby, the air defence UndE-23 and the air force's flying radar stations are assessed to solve the current need. ..................................................... This is what the Armed Forces are saying officially. It is available on their website, so that you can take part of this. As far as the concrete content is concerned, I see no reason to question the substance. This is a discussion that Oscarsson will have to carry on with the Swedish Armed Forces' representatives. When ArtE 740 was returned to the Swedish Armed Forces, it was without an antenna. Thus, the claim was quite correct: it was a vehicle with a mast but not with an antenna that was returned. The antenna is a central part of the radar system, and a large part of the intelligence is located in the antenna. The ArtE 740 liaison system was removed from the vehicles before the rental, and there is currently no updated management system, no identification function or any interface to be able to use ArtE 740 as a painting display for protruding dressings. That is the situation, as I understand it. I guess that's where we're standing now. And this is not part of the war organization.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-334	Madam President, I would like In fact, what is needed is an antenna and connection equipment. I now note that the Minister of Defence is no longer in on what he was last. Then it almost sounded like there was some kind of scrap on the pallet. But it is actually a very competent system. It can then be pointed out that the Swedish Armed Forces' decision runs counter to the need for sensors that the Swedish Armed Forces have shown in their own sensor study from 2014. The fact that the Armed Forces still want to scrap what they explain themselves is absolutely essential in the future is something that should in any case be discussed. That's how it's gonna happen. The Defence Committee has decided to bring in representatives from the Swedish Armed Forces, FOI and FMV to get information about this and to get to the bottom of it. Is it that we can actually use this system in the future? The Secretary of Defense says he's not supposed to or can't control the authority in individual cases. That, of course, is the case. But the fact is that the Swedish Armed Forces must have the government's consent for all material investments exceeding SEK 200 million. At the same time, one must be able to discuss whether the Armed Forces have free hands to dismantle equipment that today would cost nearly 1 billion to acquire. Is that really reasonable? If it is vehicles you need, there are probably other ways to solve it than to scrap the 740 system. If ArtE 740 is now scrapped and the upcoming material investigation concludes, as was done in the sensor study, that moving protective sensors are needed, we will once again conclude that it was fast and wrong, as was the case with a great deal of previous decommissioning decisions. Then what is ArtE 740? Yes, it can be used for general maritime surveillance, provided that surface channel is implemented. It can be used for air targets and link air targets – absolutely. Can it be used to provide information to ground combat units for air landings and landings? Yes, absolutely, in the same way as UNdE 23. Is that a good complement and a backup? Absolutely! This means densification of the sensor chain, compensation in case of loss, targeted interventions – a multi-competent system. It is therefore important for the maritime robot system that we say we want in the future, but it is also something that can be used comprehensively. It has been said a little disdainful that this one can handle 30 miles [16 km]. In fact, in a 3D version on a Mode C-instrumented range, it's about 120 kilometers and 20,000 meters up in the air. This is a system that has the ability to look at sea targets and aircraft and can provide the necessary data. This is basically the same system as UNdE 23, which is the same system that protected Obama when he was in Sweden. It was also used during the London Olympic Games to protect. I would like once again to call on the government to halt here now and wait for the material investigation before we slaughter a system that is very likely to be needed in the future.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-344	Madam President, I would like I don't know if Oscarsson has a future career as a salesman of artillery systems ahead of him. He speaks very enthusiastically about this, and I have no reason to question the commitment. What I read earlier about the Armed Forces' view of this is not something I need to repeat. If the Committee on Defence then wants to go deeper on this issue, it is quite free. It is not something I have any comments on or would in any sense try to act in. It is only to request that the Swedish Armed Forces and other authorities come and report theirs, and then you will have to discuss the matter then. I have explained the relationship that applies to current priorities. However, I would just like to emphasise further that this is a system that is not part of the war organisation. If a system like this is to be introduced, then the defence logistics plan needs to be adjusted. Then there is quite a lot of money that needs to be redeployed from other planned equipment projects, because then the question arises as to what it is that you have to remove, delay or reprioritise. So this is not just a simple operation, but it has an effect even in that part. One can therefore ask which war foregone the Swedish Armed Forces should give priority to this ArtE 740 system. I would also like to point out that this was not part of the defence policy settlement endorsed by the Parliament. This is a new question of a system that is not part of the current organisation, which then comes from outside. These things should be clear when assessing the matter so that enthusiasm does not lead to that kind of fact disappearing from the reasoning.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-349	Madam President, I would like I think that politics must be honest and be able to say that sometimes it is not right, because we do not know everything. When the facts come up, you have to be able to take it to heart and review it and see that it didn't turn out well. It was so, the Minister of Defense, that this was not in the Defense Committee. We were not informed in the negotiations that this system would be phased out or could not be used. Now it has come up on the table, and now we are seeing an increasingly tougher environment. We see that we need every system we can imagine to defend the people of Sweden and provide security. Then we have to think so that we do nothing stupid, like in a few years we decide to have a coastal robot unit. The first thing you need then is a sensor, and then we have scrapped a system that we have spent hundreds of billions on. That's not good enough! You have to be so open to take in the facts. So this is a system that Britain and Australia were very happy with in Afghanistan. They bet 1 billion. Now it's upgraded. There is a need for a 3D antenna, and there is a need for a liaison system, but if you compare it with starting over again, the latter option will be infinitely more expensive. I therefore think that there is every reason for us to look at this, as will be done in the Committee on Defence. My hope is that we can halt with the decommissioning and see: Is this something we can use? Is there anything needed to get a coastal robot system in place in a few years' time? Then let's not phase it out. Then we will use the tax money in a good way and get a safe and better Sweden.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-353	Madam President, I would like I don't think it makes sense to say that someone is standing here and being dishonest in any way. It will be a bit too high to start with that kind of combat technique. I have presented the facts, the priorities that have been set and the basis for the Swedish Armed Forces' position in this context. Then Oscarsson must also think about how open he is to take in facts. It is not just a question of seeing what you want to see, but perhaps also of seeing the difficulties that exist. I can only say that these newly manufactured 3D antennas that were included were something that customers kept after they finished leasing, so just that is a task that should be carried with them in view of the future. This system is not part of today's war organization. Therefore, it is not just to say that it is something that you can easily bring in. It is clear that it would have effects and lead to re-prioritising. It costs money, and in that case there would be other vehicles and other things that would have to be paid for to clear this out, for example, with the telewar battalions. Then we must also see the capabilities that the Swedish Armed Forces currently have and which it believes fills this need. Among other things, it's about K orvett type Visby, it's about Air Guard UndE 23 and it's about flying radar stations. This is what has been assessed to solve the current need. We're standing here somewhere today. The process may continue in the Committee on Defence, and we shall see what comes out of it. There is also an opportunity for Oscarsson to contact the Swedish Armed Forces centrally and continue this discussion if there is interest.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-359	Madam President, I would like Mikael Oscarsson has asked me what I intend to do to urgently make adequate defence capabilities available to the police. Section 22 of the Swedish Act on Protection states that it is the owner or user of a protected object who is responsible for monitoring the object. Under Section 9 of the Swedish Security Act, police officers, military personnel or other specially appointed personnel may be employed for the purpose of guarding a protected object. Anyone who's watching a protective object and who's not a policeman is called a security guard. What powers a security guard has are provided by the 10 – 17 § of the Act of Protection. The Armed Forces are responsible for guarding military protection objects and, according to special regulations, the Head of State's residence. I note that, so far, there has not been a need in the current situation to use the Armed Forces' personnel for the surveillance of civilian protection objects to a greater extent than is happening. It should be added that the Swedish Armed Forces have the opportunity to provide support for police activities in accordance with the law and regulation on the Swedish Armed Forces' support to the police in combating terrorism and the regulation on the Swedish Armed Forces' support for civilian activities. In these regulations, it is regulated when the police can request support from the Swedish Armed Forces, the conditions under which support should be provided and the manner in which a request for support should be made.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-361	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. The background to my interpellation is that, following the government's decision to introduce border controls and increased preparedness, the police are under severe strain. It has come to light in many different ways. Minister Ygeman has said that border control is a significant burden on police resources and that there is a risk that other police work will suffer. At the same time, it is important to review whether there are other resources that can be used in society to help in the situation that has arisen. I have a lot of contact with the Armed Forces. I know the Secretary of Defense has, too. There is a great frustration there, which I am sure the Minister of Defence has sensed, among employees and management, that they are not being used in such situations. We are on Helgeandsholmen, and behind us is the castle. It's been standing for hundreds of years. Already at the castle Three crowns was the guard. In fact, since Gustav Vasa' time, the Swedish Armed Forces have been running with the guard. In the situation following the terrible terrorist acts of 13 November in France, the elevated security situation in the Riksdag, the preparedness at Rosenbad and around the various departments, it is a little strange that we do not use the Swedish Armed Forces. There are full-time soldiers who could be given the responsibility to help with the guarding of, for example, the Riksdag on Helgeandsholmen and Rosenbad. Sometimes it has been said to me, Madam President, that the tragedy that happened in Ådalen haunts the Social Democrats; the police force must not be confused with the Armed Forces. But those events took place a long time ago. They were terrible, but there is no reason to believe that such problems would arise again. Now the resources available must be used. That's why I've written the interpellation. How does the Minister of Defence view this issue in the future? We are approaching Christmas, and the feast of peace is approaching. At the same time, unfortunately, it is a bleak situation in the world and a bleak security situation in Europe, even in our own capital. We can recall what happened on Drottninggatan five years ago with a suicide bomber. Thankfully, he failed what he had in mind. Otherwise, it would have been a crater in the inner city of Stockholm. We see an increased security threat. Can the Minister of Defence consider using the Swedish Armed Forces so that soldiers can help with the guarding so that it is not only Säpo who gets the task? Then it can be a relief so that common resources are better used to create security.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-369	Madam President, I would like I have to deal with the legislation in force. I am not going to stand here and speculate on possible scenarios when one or the other can be used. The regulation that applies is the Swedish Armed Forces' support for civilian activities. It is called the aid regulation. The Swedish Armed Forces may, upon request, provide support to state authorities and municipalities. The aid regulation does not apply to aid from the armed forces governed by specific law or regulation. Examples of such regulations are the Swedish Security Act, the Act on Protection against Accidents and the Swedish Armed Forces' Support to the Police in Combating Terrorism. Support may be provided only if the Swedish Armed Forces have appropriate resources for the task and this does not hinder the regular operation or its participation in civil protection under the Accident Protection Act. The Swedish Armed Forces may provide support under the regulation, but there is no obligation to do so. It is up to the Authority to decide whether to grant aid under the aid regulation. When the Armed Forces provide support, the personnel of the Agency must not be used in situations where there is a risk that it may use violence or coercion against individuals. It is a matter of guarding protective objects and participation in the fight against terrorism and when it is possible for the Swedish Armed Forces to make helicopter resources available. In these contexts, there will be a request from, for example, the Police Authority. From what I understand from the current situation, the police have not made that kind of request. It is for the police to assess whether the police lack access to resources of a particular kind that intervention requires. It must be dealt with together with the police, and then it must be carried out in accordance with the legislation in force. I have full confidence that the authorities have the ability to deal with these issues.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-373	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Defence, for your answer. Should I interpret it as saying that if such a request is made, the Minister of Defence will not oppose it, but he can imagine, in order to relieve Säpo, letting the Armed Forces take responsibility for, for example, the Riksdag and Rosenbad? It is one thing if we can say that there is something temporary, but unfortunately this is something that we have to get used to. There will be border controls at the national borders and various types of guarding. That's when all the security resources are used. The Social Democratic local government in Märsta recently wrote a letter to the government saying that no more guards can be found in the private market. The city council is highlighting the emergency services. This is another issue that I would like to take this opportunity to raise because I think it is in line with my interpellation. How does the Secretary of Defense view the reintroduction of the emergency services? It existed for a number of years and made an important contribution to the storm Gudrun and after September 11. The P.P.D.'s down, but there's still a record. Of the 1,500, 750 are easily accessible. A week would go by for a course, and then they could be used again to relieve at border controls. The police have said that you need to hire several thousand new police officers. I'm sure you have to do that. The private security companies are sucking in everything there is. Now we have to turn the stones around and see if the Riksdag and the government can do something to pool the resources that are available and that can make us stand safer. I have specifically pointed to the Swedish Armed Forces to help with guarding missions. I understand there's an opening with the Secretary of Defense. It would also be interesting to hear the Minister for Defence's view of re-establishing the Emergency Response Police as an important complement in order to relieve the current situation, which, unfortunately, Madam President, we can predict will remain for probably the whole of next year and perhaps the coming year. It is important to build a stable system that is robust and withstands stress. Then we must pool the resources available from the state.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-379	Madam President, I would like There's no reason to overinterpret what I'm saying, Oscarsson. You're so happy to search your openings and twist and turn what I say. As a matter of fact, I have only relied on the legislation in force. I have not promised anything more than this. What I have been talking about is that the protection tasks legislation allows the Swedish Armed Forces to implement. It has the opportunity to participate in the fight against terrorism, and it has the opportunity to participate with helicopter capabilities. The legislation also offers opportunities to assist civil society. The Swedish Armed Forces have done so in connection with fires, floods and various types of accidents and disasters. It is based on the fact that the Authority itself decides on this aid and how it is to be provided under the aid regulation in force. These are things that the legislation in force has to deal with at the level of the authorities. That's what I've been telling you about here. So there is no reason to go on interpreting either one or the other. I have not promised any changes to the law. As far as the emergency police are concerned, of course, the register is a resource. This was abolished by the previous government, and Oscarsson was one of those who were part of the parliamentary foundation during that time. What is happening now is that, within the framework of the total defence planning that we are starting, we will also have to look at this resource and what we could use it in the future. But there is no money set aside at this point, one should also say. Now I don't want any over-interpretation of this either – that I should have made a promise or opened up to something. I have only noted that, as far as the emergency services are concerned, they are on the agenda again, and that is something to be looked at in connection with the overall defence planning. But it's not a process that I want to precede.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-385	Madam President, I would like It seems that the Secretary of Defense does not like that I perceive that there is an opening. Then we note that – let us put it on record that he does not want it that way. I think it would be quite natural to say: of course, Mr Oscarsson, it is the case that this exists, and if it is necessary, it would be natural for us to use it. Otherwise you can imagine some kind of fear at the bottom. I don't know how to interpret that. The Secretary of Defense will have one more chance to explain it for himself. It's really important with the total defense. That is where the Secretary of Defense will pay tribute to the decision that has been made. But then it would be natural to look at the emergency services. It was a mistake to dismantle it. I'm not standing here saying it was a good decision. It was a mistake. They said it hadn't been used in a lot of years, but it was a different situation then. Again, we see a situation where threats are increasing, pressure on our borders is extremely harsh and we use the police to break the line. Then we have to look at how we can co-use. We had a debate here in Parliament a couple of nights ago. Then we mentioned another part: the helicopters, which, given the experience of the fire in Västmanland, are also not being used optimally. This is really important. We have limited resources in this Kingdom. We need to look at how we can make them work best. Since Gustav Vasa' time, the Swedish Armed Forces have helped the King to guard the castle. I think there is every reason to look at how we can naturally connect the Swedish Armed Forces in order to be able to use it when necessary to monitor, for example, Rosenbad and the Riksdag. With these words, I wish the Secretary of Defense a Merry Christmas.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-394	Madam President, I would like As far as the emergency services are concerned, it is not that I have refused to review the possibilities. On the other hand, I have referred to the fact that this can be done within the framework of what is being looked at in terms of overall defence planning. Then you can return with any information and comments. When it comes to using the Swedish Armed Forces' resources, this should be done within the framework of legislation on protective objects and the possibility to use the Swedish Armed Forces in terrorist contexts and to use helicopter resources. Then there is the support regulation that exists in relation to civil society. That is where we can look at opportunities to use armed forces. But it is based on a real situation, and it is based, for example, on the request of the police in relation to this legislation. It is the authorities who deal with such issues. At present, it is not parliamentary questions but government questions. This is the situation, and I think that the laws and opportunities that exist should be used and that the authorities should continue to work on such matters. Otherwise, I can wish Oscarsson a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-398	Madam President, I would like Allan Widman has asked me what steps I am prepared to take to set up an organisational committee for the re-establishment of the Chief Defence Board. In the light of the deteriorating international situation and the increased uncertainty in the neighbourhood, it is a priority to bring about a modern and coherent total defence planning, which is the purpose of the decisions taken by the government on 10 December 2015. The decisions include tasks for the Swedish Armed Forces and the Swedish Civil Protection Agency to submit proposals to the Government Office by 10 June 2016 for a basic approach to coherent planning for the total defence. The draft basic approach shall include a description of how work on coherent overall defence planning is to be carried out and shall support the planning work of all relevant authorities. In addition, the Swedish Armed Forces and MSB are instructed to report comprehensive assessments of the Swedish Armed Forces' needs for support from the civil defence in the event of an armed attack and the capabilities of the civil authorities to provide support. The Government's decision of 10 December also includes detailed instructions for the planning of civil defence, which obliges all relevant authorities to resume their preparedness planning in the framework of civil defence. The authorities shall submit an initial report of the planning work by 10 June 2016, after which the work shall be reported annually in connection with the annual report. According to instructions for the Swedish Armed Forces' defence planning, the Swedish Armed Forces, with the support of MSB, will give the security authorities access to relevant parts of the planning for armed attacks. The timing and form of this shall allow all security authorities to begin the coherent planning for total defence in early 2016. In order to improve the conditions for coordinated and coherent planning, the cooperation currently taking place in the field of emergency preparedness shall also include civil defence planning. MSB plays a central role in this work. The Authority shall represent civil defence at central level on issues relevant to the balance between civil and military needs of society's resources, subject to specific regulations. At the state regional level, the County Administrative Board is the highest civil total defence authority within each county, and it will work to achieve the greatest possible defence effect. The responsibilities of county administrative boards require extensive regional cooperation. On 1 January 2013, the Swedish Armed Forces established four regional staffs to develop, among other things, their ability to interact with other authorities. These staffs will develop the ability to handle total defence issues, which includes collaborating with the county boards. Within the Regerin gskansliet, in 2008 a rice management council was set up in which the Office, the relevant authorities and other actors meet for cooperation and mutual orientation and to maintain good preparedness for and during serious events and crises. The Council meets at least twice a year for general orientation and may be convened for the exchange of information in the event of serious events and crises. The Crisis Management Council is headed by the Secretary of State of the Minister for Home Affairs, and the Council normally includes the Head of State Police, the Head of Security Police, the Commander-in-Chief and the Directors-General of the Swedish Power Network, the Swedish Civil Protection Agency, the National Board of Health and Welfare and the Swedish Radiation Safety Authority. The Council also includes a County Governor representing the County Administrative Boards. If necessary, other Members may be associated. The government intends to return with further measures and detailed instructions, if necessary, for coherent overall defence planning, but currently sees no need to create an organisational committee for the restoration of the General Defence Executive Board.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-406	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Defence, for the detailed answer! It was also very clear; the Minister for Defence does not consider it appropriate to re-establish the Chief Council of the Total Defence. Madam President, I would like Defence is often a very abstract concept. This is particularly true when you enter civil defence and total defence. Here in the House, the spoken word should apply, and during my 13 years in Parliament I have never shown any picture or equivalent, but the picture I now hold up for the House shows how the Swedish total defence was built, how different authorities were connected, in 1985. We can see that since 1985 our society has become infinitely more complex. It is not just about globalisation and outsourcing from the public to the various private companies, it is also about more authorities and more public levels in our society. I was a little surprised that the exposé of total defence, for which the government has decided on instructions, does not contain the national security council that the government has created. There it is in the government the highest responsible for military defence and the highest responsible for civil defence, Minister of Interior Anders Ygeman. I have repeatedly pointed out that I find it unfortunate that, at a time when world developments are rapidly deteriorating, we are making decisions in the government to distinguish between the responsibility for civil and military defence. It will not facilitate coordination, and it will not facilitate the reconstruction of total defence in Sweden. I am also concerned that the accounts made by the Minister for Defence are top-down. There are a lot of assignments to subordinate authorities, who will report to the government, and then the government will give new instructions in different ways. Madam President, I would like I believe that the strength of the Swedish constitutional model is that we have independent, competent authorities led by strong Directors-General. If the Minister for Defence and the Government apply more of mission tactics, i.e. assign tasks to and entrust to regional, municipal and state actors to act, they are more likely to enter a more positive continuous spiral. One might ask, when there is such a top-down system, such a pyramid, what happens if, for example, Rosenbad is knocked out, if the government can no longer function and those who will be responsible for civil defence for the first time on their own have to solve it. I do not believe that there is a uniform model for how coordination within the Swedish total defence should be done. We have some counties that are woodland, we have other counties that are nuclear, and there will be a need for infinitely many different solutions. If, Madam President, the Swedish total defence and coordination are built from the top down, I am afraid that there will be little to total defence.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-415	Madam President, I would like Somewhere you have to start. When it comes to total defence, it is an ability with a substantial potential for improvement. We start from a low level, which we can probably agree on. There are many authorities, many activities. The grid pattern, the wiring diagram or what we choose to call it, as Allan Widman showed about the situation in 1985 shows how complex and comprehensive it was – and can become in the future. It is about municipalities, county councils and county boards, but it is also about individual companies, about various economic activities. It is the whole breadth of society that should be so moored for a military defence but also be able to perform tasks of a purely emergency preparedness nature. Let's take a first step. We have put in place a directive to present by June next year a basic line on total defence planning in order to get things going in a coherent way. Of course, such work must be done in collaboration with many different actors. There must be centralised elements in it, but there must also be highly decentralised elements when, so to speak, it aches out in full force. I do not think it is fair to give a picture of the government having some kind of belief that in every detail it can be top-down. What we are doing now is first and foremost getting work started on total defence planning. It's been too far away for a long time. I do not believe that in practice there will be a return to what it once looked like. It's good to take part of the story, and it's good to see the kind of map that Allan presents, but I think it's going to look a different way in the future. That is why we need to build a total defence that meets the demands and threats that exist today. Ultimately, it is the situation of increased preparedness and war that must be the yardstick for the results to be measured against. I am well aware and have a completely open mind because it is not a journey that is made in a short time, but it is a construction work that will take time. There are now no more resources available than for the initial work, which we are now going to do. After that, we will have to consider how we continue the construction work. It is a necessary task, and the priority task at the first stage will be support for military defence. One can of course study who is responsible for what and which departments are involved. I can only say that in the planning directives given by the government, we are clear. In terms of preparation, it is a work that both the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Defence have participated in.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-422	Madam President, I would like Perhaps it will be that neither Peter Hultqvist nor his signature can be part of the moment when we have re-established a more stable total defence in Swedish society. It is indeed a long journey that remains. One could even use the term, known to the Committee on Defence, that is very low; it is from what we are now building. I am grateful to the government, after my interpellation was submitted, made decisions on planning for a total defence. The Minister of Defence refers to what is known as the Crisis Management Council, which the Alliance Government established in 2008. I would like to point out that there are significant differences, although there are also some similarities, between the General Defence Chief Council on the one hand and the Crisis Management Council on the other. The Crisis Management Council consists of a total of nine members. The General Defence Committee consisted of 21 Directors-General as well as representatives of county boards and the Swedish Armed Forces. The Crisis Management Council is part of the Government Office and is headed by a State Secretary. It is therefore a politically-led activity. The General Defence Committee was in its day, Madam President, a completely independent committee, disconnected from government and other authorities and with its own private office. In the Crisis Management Council, according to the Minister for Defence, there is a mutual orientation. I imagine that this will tell us about the activities that are taking place in the various authorities. In the regulation on the General Defence Committee, there was a very clear focus not only on informing each other, but also on coordinating their activities and trying to draw attention to the difficulties in bordering and contact areas that existed between the various authorities involved in the total defence. The Crisis Management Council meets twice a year. The Grand Board of Directors met every other month. I have still not heard the Minister for Defence comment on the National Security Council. It was a grip that the government took not so long ago and was new to Swedish conditions. There's the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of Defense. Why is this not mentioned as part of the coordination of the total defence we are about to create? Madam President, I would like In the answer, the Minister for Defence also maintains that the Swedish Armed Forces and MSB will provide input values from the defence planning to the security authorities. The monitoring authorities are also a fairly new concept in Swedish legislation. They were previously represented by what we called FAM, the functional authorities. They are listed in an annex to the Emergency Preparedness Regulation. It is a good thing that those included in that annex, about 50 authorities, can become part of the construction of the new total defence. At the same time, however, important authorities are missing from this list, namely the Swedish Defence Research Institute, the Swedish Defence University, the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration and even the Swedish Fortifications Agency. They're not part of the system. I do not know whether this is a simple oversight of the government or whether it is with awareness that they have been left out for total defence very important authorities.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-431	Madam President, I would like Let's get to work. The first priority is support for military defence. I do not know if the most important and most important priority when starting this and to create the first sketches of what it could look like and develop is to set up a executive board. In the answer, I say that at present we cannot see the need to set up an organisational committee to set this up. That is the wording I have given. What it will all look like in a future, I do not need to point out now or say with determination. But we have chosen not to focus on setting up new committees and different groups, but we have chosen to focus on creating an initial phase in which we get the job started with the initial authorities. Of course, this can gradually be widened. Nor do we have an end date for the work on a modern total defence. This is an activity that has not been conducted for many years, and it is a laborious and long-term task to achieve this. What is now beginning must be carried out in different stages. The government is open to return with more detailed instructions and special decisions as the work progresses. I have not closed any doors, but I want a proper start to it, where you start by creating a platform, so that the whole thing does not disappear into a mission that extends so wide and has so many involved that we are losing momentum already in the initial phase. The most realistic thing in the situation we have is to start in the way we have now chosen. Then we will see how we develop the work in the future. Of course, the National Security Council, led by the Prime Minister, will have a role and will be activated in connection with all kinds of crises that can affect Sweden. It is also an activity that is already under way. It is an existing, existing entity that will operate, and it may also be put into this type of context and event.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-438	Madam President, I would like Now I was hopeful for a short moment when the Minister of Defence mentioned the National Security Council. But then he filled in that it will gather in the event of crises. Bringing together authorities and decision-makers once the crisis has arrived is not by far the best way. I had hoped that the National Security Council would continue to pay constant attention to total defence issues and thus prepare our society for the pressures that may arise. But that is clearly not the case. With regard to the defence authorities which today do not constitute guarding authorities and will therefore not receive entry values from the defence planning – the Defence Research Institute, the Swedish Defence University, FMV, the Fortificationsverket and others – I would like to ask the Minister for Defence a straight question: Will these at least be included in the planning described by the Minister for Defence in his answer? Anything else would be illogical. I listened carefully to how the Minister of Defence chose to formulate himself in relation to the restoration of the General Defence Chief Council. He says that this is not the issue at the moment. Mikael Oscarsson may not have had so many openings in his previous interpellations, but I understand that there is still an opening from the Minister for Defence here. Finally, before wishing me a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year, I would therefore like to add that there is not so much change that needs to be made in relation to the Crisis Management Council in order for it to have the role that the General Defence Committee once had. It's about disconnecting it from political governance, getting more broad among those attending meetings and getting them to focus precisely on the coordination of total defence. Madam President, I would like May I wish the Minister for Defence a happy Christmas and a happy New Year, and the same for the President.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-443	Madam President, I would like With regard to the National Security Council, I would like to say that one does not exclude the other. Strategic discussions are taking place, and analyses are being carried out. Crisises and current events are also characteristic of the work. As far as the relevant authorities are concerned, I would like to say that this is the way we are starting now. We see this as long-term work to be carried out in stages. As the job develops, not only these kinds of authorities but also civil society must be involved in depth and in a broad sense. Otherwise, we're not building a total defense. Total defence is a broad whole and is ultimately about the mobilization force of society as a whole. Now it is important to get started, so that we get a start on a business that has either been too far away or has been going on at a very low level. Since I have learned in my mission that you have to be extremely careful with the words, I say what I said earlier: There is no need at present. That's how I formulated myself. Then I can wish Allan Widman a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year and thank him for his commitment to all issues relating to defence and security. I would also like to wish the President and the Bureau a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-448	Madam President, I would like Sofia Fölster has asked me what concrete measures I and the Government intend to take to lower the thresholds into the Swedish labour market, what concrete measures I and the Government intend to take to make the Public Employment Service more effective, and how much I and the Government expect the growth of jobs to be curbed as a result of the government's tax increases. A sustained reduction in unemployment and an increase in employment is one of the government's most important tasks. In order to achieve this goal, the Government's Job Agenda, which consists of three parts: investment in housing, climate and infrastructure; an active business and innovation policy for more and growing companies; and investment in skills and matching. In order to shorten the time from the arrival of new arrivals to work, the work for the establishment of new arrivals is also reformed. In the 2016 budget bill recently adopted by the Riksdag, the Government proposes a number of investments that will lead to faster entry into the labour market, including strengthened labour market-oriented efforts, validation and a substantial increase in the compensation to municipalities for refugee reception. The government is committed to further efforts to create a sustainable system of reception and more effective action for rapid entry into the labour market. The Swedish Tax Agency estimates that for 2014 it has been paid out almost SEK 17 billion in ROT deductions. At the same time as the costs of the ROT deduction run out, there is an acute housing shortage in the municipalities. The housing shortage in itself hampers job growth and weakens the ability of newcomers to establish themselves in the labour market. The Government intends to limit the current subsidy for renovation, renovation and extension and use the money released to increase, among other things, the construction of new housing. The government, the Moderates, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Christian Democrats agreed on 23 October on certain efforts to secure the ability of Swedish reception of asylum seekers and strengthen the establishment of new arrivals. The agreement proposes, among other things, that the RUT deduction should also include extended gardening, floating services and IT services at home. The Public Employment Service has a central role to play in achieving the Government's objective of faster entry of newcomers into the labour market. The Authority shall have well-structured employer contacts and provide professional support to employers who recruit. All job seekers, regardless of their professional background and level of education, must be supported and guided in an active job seeker. The government has begun work to change the governance of the Employment Service, which in several respects has been too detailed. A number of measures have been taken to enable policies to be adapted to the individual needs of job seekers and employers and to improve interaction between the Public Employment Service and other actors. In addition to the work initiated by the Government, Arbetsförmedlingen has initiated extensive renewal work where the employer's work is in focus. The Government has held talks with the social partners, the Employment Service and other relevant authorities on measures to create so-called "fast track" into the labour market for new arrivals in the establishment mission. Fast track for chefs and health professionals has already been presented. The government has also taken the initiative for the so-called 100-club, which is an initiative in which industry and government agencies offer jobs and internships for new arrivals. As Sofia Fölster probably already knows, the government reports in the budget bill and spring bill on the overall assessment of how the government's reforms affect employment and unemployment. However, with regard to the impact of various reform proposals, it is important to point out that there is considerable uncertainty as to the extent to which and at what rate different measures affect employment and unemployment. The government's reforms are estimated to have a gradual impact on employment and unemployment over the forecast period. Overall, the measures proposed in the budget proposal are assessed as contributing to lower unemployment and higher employment in the coming years. It should also be stressed that we are experiencing changing conditions for labour market policy. The economic cycle is improving. Total unemployment and youth unemployment are falling sharply. According to the latest Labour Force Survey, employment has grown since last year by 81 000, 40 000 fewer are unemployed, and unemployment has fallen by 0.8 percentage points. Among young people, unemployment has fallen by 3.1 percentage points. The number of long-term unemployed is 21,000 lower than a year ago. At the same time, reality is rapidly changing before our eyes. Sweden's population will grow significantly faster than previously expected, and the large number of asylum seekers will affect both the labour force and unemployment in the future. In the short term, it poses challenges for Sweden, but in the longer term it offers opportunities for Sweden. Sweden needs more jobs and more people who work. Solving the challenges of the future is not done with further short-term cuts and tax cuts. It is done through investment and cooperation, and that is exactly what the government is doing.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-458	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for Employment for his reply. However, when I read the answer from the government and the Minister for Labour, I get the impression that the government is quite satisfied and does not fully understand the major challenges we are now facing. It is, of course, easy to sit back when the economic cycle turns up, especially if you are ruling on someone else's budget. But the fact is that even though Anders Borg and Fredrik Reinfeldt have steered us through the worst financial crisis since the 1930s without a scratch, which is now visible in the statistics as the economic cycle turns upwards, we are facing revolutionary changes in the Swedish labour market, due to a very worried world around us. We'll take that very seriously. This year, 160 000 people are expected to apply for asylum in Sweden. Last year it was just over half. It is people who want nothing more than to start working and create their own livelihood. Nevertheless, the prospects for this group do not look very bright. Unemployment is considerably higher in the group of foreign born than in other groups, and that figure is increasing at the moment. Today, it takes an average of seven years for half of the newcomers to get their first job. These are worrying figures, especially when we now welcome many more people to Sweden in numbers. Some people are talking about high costs of receiving refugees this year. But those costs are nothing compared to what happens if hundreds of thousands of people get stuck in dependency and exclusion. The question then is: what is the Minister for Labour doing in a crisis when hundreds of thousands of people are on the brink of exclusion? In the Government's budget, which starts at the turn of the year, the biggest changes from previous tax increases on jobs and entrepreneurship are to finance a substantial expansion of subsidies. In his reply, the Minister for Labour mentions the government's active industrial policy. But active enterprise policy represents only 2% of the 32 billion that the government is raising taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship at the same time. The government is reducing ROT and increasing income taxes and energy taxes. Those who are most severely punished are young and elderly, who get employers' contributions increased. However, this does not mention the Minister for Labour. Instead, she highlights better validation, extended RUT deductions and additional support for municipalities for refugee reception. While these are important efforts, they are those that we agree on and have in our agreement. We also agree on the obligation to provide education for new arrivals without comprehensive school competence. There we are still waiting for the government to come forward and present a proposal to Parliament on how to implement this concretely. What we do not agree on, however, is the view of work. The government can subsidise any number of internships, but unless the thresholds for getting a real job are lowered, exclusion will not be broken. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Labour: when will the government present to Parliament a concrete proposal on education requirements for new arrivals in accordance with the migration agreement that we have? Does the government really think that the measures that have been presented so far are sufficient when the unemployment figures for foreign born people increase? How can entrepreneurs afford to hire more when the costs of hiring are raised by the government from next year?
i-97885b4d41c9754b-466	Madam President, I would like I am absolutely not satisfied, Sofia Fölster– quite the opposite. We are facing huge challenges. As I also said in my reply, it is the government's assessment that we will have to do much more. The budget that Parliament has just decided was presented before we saw the large increase in asylum seekers to Sweden. Of course, many additional measures will have to be taken. I share the view expressed by Sofia Fölster that people who come here do not want anything more than to get to work as soon as possible and be able to support themselves. It is important to help them to do so. Now we have a situation in the labour market where we have a strong demand for labour. We have never had as many vacancies as we have today in Sweden. It is, of course, an opportunity to ensure that the many people who have skills that are in demand in the Swedish labour market can use their skills and get into work. The fast track plays a very important role there. Through them we can find significantly faster ways in for those who bring skills or training that is needed in the labour market. It will also mean a lot to the growth of new jobs. When job vacancies cannot be filled within a reasonable time, this hampers the growth of new jobs. More measures will have to be presented, and the government will come back to that. With regard to the proposals contained in the agreement reached between the government and four opposition parties, there is a group that follows that work. We present the proposals on an ongoing basis as they are completed. There is also good transparency for the Moderates in that work. Madam President, I would like I believe that we share the ambition of what to do, and I am convinced that we will need broad agreements for many of the challenges facing Sweden, when many new arrivals will be established in society. Nevertheless, Madam President, it is a problem with the unfortunate obsession of the Moderates with fiscal policy. It tends to be a sign of similarity between fiscal policy and policy. Taxes are important. They influence driving forces and are important for funding. The design of tax policy is an important piece of the puzzle. But it's not the only piece of the puzzle. Much else is also important for us to be able to achieve good job growth and for more people to be able to get to work. What we are now doing in the field of enterprise policy is important. For example, it involves a new export strategy and facilitating more companies to export. It is also about innovations, new ways of doing things, research and cooperation. As far as the potential of labour market policy is concerned, the most important instrument is not new measures. The most important instrument is to liberalise employment services and labour market policies, so that they can work more flexibly. It is an unfortunate piecemeal approach which has led us to have far too little effect on labour market policy compared to what would be possible. Some of the important elements that the government is working on are the liberalisation of labour market policies, greater flexibility for the Public Employment Service and more cooperation, for example with the social partners, with employers and with municipalities. The Employment Service cannot solve this alone. You need the partnership. That is why it is so important to focus on employers' needs that the Employment Service now has. In the end, it is an employer who is going to hire. Then it is important to be able to meet the employer's needs.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-477	Madam President, I would like The Minister for Labour calls it a fixation on tax policy. I call it one of the biggest tax shocks we have seen in modern times at a time when it is extremely unfortunate and many people would need to get a job and jobs would have to grow. The government's economic policy is estimated to permanently reduce the number of employed by 0.3 per cent or 15 000 to 20 000 people. That's what the Institute of Economics wrote this summer. Only one of several economic experts has condemned the government's employment policy. And it was done before it turned out that we will have significantly greater challenges in the Swedish labour market with a new exclusion than any of us had previously thought. As I said, it is certainly possible to sit back against cyclical fluctuations. However, when so many people are at risk of long-term exclusion, it does not hold up at the same time a policy that discourages positive economic development and may even hamper the growth of new jobs. This is especially true when the principle of crown for crown is now thrown overboard and economic stability can no longer be taken for granted. I would therefore like to return to the government's work efforts, which the Minister for Labour mentioned in his reply and also in his subsequent speech. The government often talks warmly about subsidies for internships and trainees. In the election campaign, we heard that 32,000 young people would have a trainee seat. Then this promise was withdrawn. The government then promised that young people would receive training contracts to get to work. Although 380 million have now been spent on this project, it has been shown that only 147 young people have received such a training contract. It is therefore less than 3 per mil of young people who are currently outside the labour market looking for work. Another cornerstone of employment policy is the Employment Service, which we have talked about. It is the Swedish Public Employment Service that now has the task of piloting new arrivals into work. Despite this, the Swedish Public Employment Service's own figures show that only 5 per cent of the new arrivals who have participated in the Swedish Public Employment Service's establishment programme have a post-graduate job. This is not the first time that Arbetsförmedlingen has discovered its inefficiency. The Swedish Public Employment Service currently has the lowest level of trust in all the Swedish authorities, despite the fact that the Swedish Public Employment Service has a budget that is considerably larger than the entire Swedish Armed Forces. As I said, 160 000 new arrivals are coming to Sweden this year. Unless we quickly lower the thresholds into the labour market, these people are in danger of falling into long-term exclusion. Then we cannot afford to waste money on inefficient subsidies or measures. Nor can we afford to risk our competitiveness and make it more difficult for those who are now creating new jobs in Sweden. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Labour once again the following: is the government satisfied that only 147 young people have signed training contracts? Is the government satisfied that the Employment Service is unable to get more new arrivals to work? If the government is not, I would like the Minister to develop further concretely what the Government intends to do to make the Public Employment Service more effective. How does it become easier for newcomers to get jobs when the thresholds for the labour market are raised and when it becomes significantly more expensive to hire?
i-97885b4d41c9754b-485	Madam President, I would like Sofia Fölster says the jobs would have to grow. Yeah, that's exactly what's happening. We have an extremely strong job growth right now. That is very pleasing. This also means that unemployment is now falling very quickly. It is falling particularly rapidly for young people, which is very gratifying because it is happening from a high level. This also means that the need for subsidies is reduced, which I think is a good thing. Of course, if more people can get a job without subsidies or without labour market policy measures, that is a success. As Minister for Labour, I do not want as many people as possible in labour market policy measures. I want as many people as possible to work. There are individuals who will need special support, and then we need a good labour market policy. But of course there is no intrinsic value in the fact that young people who can get a job should still be in a labour market policy measure. It is work that is the goal, and right now it is going very well. But it also focuses on the fact that you have to invest a lot more in education and matching than you have done in the past. Sofia Fölster criticises the policy pursued by the old government. I share that view. The management of the Public Employment Service was unfortunate in such a detailed manner and with a wrong focus, which also led to a further decline in the already low level of confidence in the Public Employment Service. There were also exceptional crises within Arbetsförmedlingen, when the Board declared that it did not have confidence in the Director General. It was an exceptional crisis in an entirely central authority. We are now getting this right. I also share the criticism of the start-up mission. Those who come to Sweden have completely different conditions, just as we already have different conditions here. Some have no education at all. Maybe they've never paid. Others have a high level of education and have had a strong position in the labour market in their old home country and should also be able to get it in Sweden. They have completely different needs and must therefore be treated differently. It was very unfortunate that there was the introduction of pilots. It was the same effort for everyone regardless of the conditions. It is good that we have now been able to abolish this effort and instead make more flexible efforts and meet individuals in different ways. As I said to you, we're going to need more of that product. I do not think that what we have done so far will be enough, but we are on the right track. Now we meet trained doctors so that they can quickly come in and work as a doctor. We meet chefs so that they can quickly get to work, perhaps already without them knowing Swedish. Employers say that it is not necessary to know Swedish in order to work in kitchens. English is good enough. We also work with snabbspår in a wide range of professions: butchers, electricians, teachers, engineers. This will make things easier for many. But we also need ways in for those who do not have such a requested competence or level of education. There are now proposals to step up efforts in the field of education and greater flexibility. But I also think that we will have to come back with more proposals.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-492	Madam President, I would like The Minister for Labour says we have good job growth. Nevertheless, unemployment in the group of foreign born is increasing. Of course, there are a lot of measures in terms of training and validation that we fully agree on. But there are other issues where we have completely different opinions. It is about the perception of work and how jobs are created. I don't think politicians can create jobs by snapping their fingers. Nor do I believe that the government can conjure up more jobs out of the drawer through subsidised efforts and through subsidised practice. Jobs are created by companies. Only when the economy grows and it is profitable to run companies in Sweden can more people afford to hire. Only when the restaurant, cleaning firm or car rental company is given the opportunity to expand can more people get their first job. This year, 160 000 new arrivals will arrive in Sweden. Although these people have traveled around half the world, their chances of getting jobs are extremely bad. They are hindered by language, training requirements and paper users in the efforts where many of them get stuck. Self-sufficiency means not only the independence of a human being but also an opportunity to contribute to society and to do the right thing. We now need a job policy that clearly lowers the thresholds for newcomers to enter the labour market. It is totally unacceptable, then, that the government should greatly increase taxes on jobs and work for higher subsidies. It is my hope that the government will now reconsider. This is needed if we are to meet the challenges of the refugee crisis in the long term. With this, I would like to thank you for a good debate and wish both the Minister and the Bureau a Merry Christmas.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-498	Madam President, I would like Now the Moderates say that they welcome education and validation. That is a good thing, but when you were responsible for labour market policy, you made cuts in education and validation. It is now said that it welcomes the liberalisation of the Public Employment Service, but when it was responsible itself, it introduced detailed governance of the Public Employment Service. Now we are no longer talking about the reduction in employers' contributions for young people – we have left our old proposal – but when the government proposed to leave this ineffective and very expensive measure, which has not worked, it warned that youth unemployment would increase. On the contrary, we now see that youth unemployment is actually falling, and it is extremely powerful. So it would be good if the Moderates adapted their rhetoric and politics to reality. It was a pity that one did not show a greater sensitivity to reality when one had the possibility of a government position. Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, I take note of Sofia Fölster's good will and her understanding that many new efforts will be needed in order for us to meet the great opportunity – but also the big challenge – with many new arrivals here in Sweden. I look forward to being able to cooperate widely on these issues in the future, and I hope to be able to do so also with the Moderates. I would like to thank you for the debate and also to wish both Sofia Fölster and the President and the Bureau a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year. We'll take a fresh turn next year.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-503	Madam President, I would like Désirée Pethrus has asked the Minister for Justice and Migration why the Government is opposed to the EU assuming responsibility for the surveillance and control of the EU's external border control and what the Minister and Government are doing to promote the possibility of applying for humanitarian visas outside the EU. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. Control over its own territory is one of the core tasks of the state, and the government's position is that border control is and should remain primarily a national responsibility. The EU Treaty clearly states that national security is the responsibility of each Member State and that it should continue to be so. The Treaty requires the EU to respect the State functions of the Member States, in particular with regard to the enforcement of territorial integrity, law and order and the protection of national security. Border control is an important tool for achieving these objectives and it is therefore not compatible with the Treaty to transfer the basic responsibility for border control to the EU. There are also various operational problems if responsibility were to be transferred to the EU. Border control is closely linked to the other police and judicial work, and is based on non-harmonised national legislation. It is therefore very difficult to leave the responsibility for border control to the EU. The EU Border Code makes it clear that border control plays a dual role. It is intended to prevent illegal immigration but also to prevent all kinds of threats to public order and internal security. The geographical situation of the Member States, the external and foreign policy situation and other conditions affect the focus of border control in the different countries. In the event of a common European border control, it may be difficult to maintain the focus on border control necessary to meet the national challenges of the various Member States. It is also questionable whether border control by the EU would be more effective than national border control. With the current situation in Schengen, it is clear that one country's action has a major impact on another. Against this background, I realise, of course, at the same time that there is a need to review the common regulatory framework in this area. I therefore welcome the fact that the European Commission has presented a border package containing proposals on how we can work better together to strengthen control of the external border. That is a good starting point for further discussion. In the future, we will have reason to come back in more detail with comments on the individual proposals. I would also like to point out that Sweden and the government are continuously and in various ways helping to strengthen Schengen cooperation and the control of the external border. In ongoing discussions within the EU, the Government highlights the need for external border controls to be carried out in accordance with the Schengen acquis. At the same time, we call for solidarity and for the countries concerned to be given the support they need to be able to carry out the checks that they are supposed to carry out. During the year, Sweden has contributed to supporting these countries with staff and technical equipment. For example, the Poli Authority has contributed more than 30 Swedish border police experts in various Frontex operations, and the Coast Guard has contributed a larger vessel, maritime surveillance flights and a patrol boat to Frontex operations in the Mediterranean. The police and the Coast Guard have also collaborated in an operation. In 2016, Sweden will continue to contribute with staff and technical equipment to strengthen the control of the external border. With regard to the view that asylum seekers should be able to apply for visas for humanitarian reasons prior to entry into the EU, I can inform you that the government intends to set up an investigation into legal ownership in order to seek asylum in the EU. It shall then take place in accordance with the agreement of 23 October 2015 between the Government and the alliance parties on actions in response to the refugee crisis. Humanitarian visas are an example of an issue to be looked at by the investigation. Work on the drafting of investigation directives has begun. The government is also in favour of the EU taking greater responsibility for resettling more refugees and people in need of protection in cooperation with the UNHCR. The European Commission's 2016 Work Programme announces a proposal for a structured EU quota refugee system, in order to prepare protection needs for safe and legal entry into the EU. The proposal is expected to be presented in spring 2016.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-513	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Government for its answer, although I am not satisfied with it. It is contradictory tasks that have come to the EU Council and in this answer as to where the government is on the issue. My question to the Government is about why the Swedish Government has had a negative attitude all autumn towards the EU taking increased responsibility for securing the EU's external border at a time when many are talking about its collapse. Around 11⁄2 million people have crossed the external border illegally in 2015, and yet the Government chooses to argue that Sweden cannot and should not support a takeover of the external border and that the EU should enter. The EU proposal states that, in order to facilitate the management of migration, the European Commission should improve internal security in the European Union and safeguard the principle of the free movement of persons, as soon as possible, establish a European Border and Coast Guard with a view to ensuring a strong common management of the external borders. Madam President, I would like For me, it is therefore strange that in the autumn, in several different media, the Minister of State said that he does not want such an authority and that Sweden itself should manage its borders. At the same time, the government has said that we must have control of our Swedish borders because external border controls do not work. Yesterday, the Riksdag even, at the Government's request, took a decision on ID checks on boats, buses and trains transporting passengers to Sweden. This is something that may seem necessary, but at the same time it risks impairing economic development in the Skåne region in particular. It is clear that we are risking freedom of movement if external border controls do not work. We risk Schengen cooperation, which in the long term also affects the Swedish economy because we are dependent on the whole area of the European Union. Madam President, I would like At the Finnish Immigration Service's press conference on the refugee crisis on 22 October, which I believe there were several of us who followed, the Director General of the Finnish Immigration Service Anders Danielsson announced that today's situation is like Sweden having a land border with Turkey – this because Greece, and also Italy against Libya, cannot cope with border control. They do not register and control who enters the EU and seeks asylum. This means that people are not controlled either or there are possible threats to our security. We don't know what their intentions are and what's in their luggage. This, of course, is not sustainable. It affects everyone's safety. Those arriving by air are carefully checked as to their identity and what they are allowed to enter the Schengen area, but if they arrive via a boat over the Mediterranean, we have no control. That, of course, is not sustainable. We must have control of the situation, and if we are to have control of our own borders, we must also ensure that we have control at the external borders. At the same time, I would like to stress, Madam President, that it is of course extremely important that the right of asylum should continue to apply. At this point, we hear in various media the government's persistently negative attitude to the EU proposal for a European coastguard border to improve control at the external border. I don't really understand how the government thinks. Why is it better for Sweden itself to control the border with Turkey than for the EU to do so jointly?
i-97885b4d41c9754b-521	Madam President, I would like There seems to be considerable confusion about both the Swedish position and what the EU proposal materially means. A few clarifications: as Mrs Pethrus says, we have not taken a negative position on strengthening the EU's external border or on having strong Frontex operations to protect the EU's external border – quite the contrary. We are one of the countries that has driven the EU most strongly to take action to protect the external border. We are the country that has put the greatest pressure on Greece and Italy to make the right efforts. All the way, at every EU meeting and every successful meeting, we have driven that view. This cannot be confused with the fact that the EU is to find a new authority to take over the tasks of the nation states, that is, to protect its own territory. Frontex is currently having problems filling its operations with personnel and equipment. This problem is not solved by changing the name of Frontex to Frontex for the Coast Guard and giving them supranational powers. The total number of persons who would be responsible for Frontex and the total material is not enough to maintain even one country's border protection, much less the EU's border protection. It is simply a bad idea to have a common protection of the external borders of the European Union, because it is a national competence with national competence and resources. If national competences, competences and resources are not available, the mission cannot be carried out. On the other hand – and here we are going to give Mr Pethrus a little right – we need to be much clearer with the individual Member States about their obligations. Greece and, to some extent, Italy have not complied with their national obligations. But Greece now accepts the assistance of the other Member States under Frontex. My assessment is that if Greece had not requested that assistance, Greece would have risked being suspended from Schengen, and then the Schengen border would have been moved a hack further north. We fully agree on the current situation. The Schengen external border is not dense enough; it is far too porous. Further steps need to be taken. In combination with these measures, we shall also work towards legal ways in. But where we differ is that Désirée Pethrus wants a supranational new authority that she believes solves a lot of problems. The government doesn't believe that.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-527	Madam President, I would like The evidence on a European Border and Coast Guard to protect Europe's external borders states that during its Presidency in the spring, the Netherlands will produce a decision-making document for the Heads of State or Government. I do not know what the Prime Minister said at the meeting yesterday, whether he was in favour of this or not. Maybe the government here can talk about that. However, the evidence states that when a Member State is unable to take the necessary measures to secure the Schengen area, the proposed border and coast guard shall intervene with an implementing decision. It is not a question of assuming the responsibilities of nation states. As the Prime Minister said, the EU has had to act against Greece in the autumn, which has not been able to fulfil its mission of securing the EU's external border and which was also initially opposed to the EU's taking action. Now the EU has acted quickly, which shows that it can deal with crises. That's good. As in financial crises and other areas where the EU is acting to secure the euro area, in the autumn, when it did not have sufficient mandates and resources to act within Frontex to secure borders, the EU started to take steps to have a more thorough system in which this could work. We do not know how Greece and a new government in Greece will act in the future. We demand that there is a system in place that works. Is there, then, any possibility in the Treaty of aggravating the situation? Yes, the Treaty states, as the Government also states in its reply, that national security is the responsibility of each Member State and should remain so. We Christian Democrats stand up for it and for the principle of subsidiarity, that we should take decisions at the most appropriate level. But when it comes to the EU's external borders, it is not Sweden's own border control that is the most effective level, but here we must lift it higher. Clearly, then, the EU must have a mandate to act. Article 77(1) of the Treaty on European Union states that the Union is to develop a policy aimed at taking the necessary measures to establish an integrated system of management of the external borders. Obviously, the Government is not behind that Treaty text. I see it as a support for Sweden to be able to move forward with securing its own borders by giving this fate. Otherwise, we are undermining our own national sovereignty in a different way. Madam President, I would like We Christian Democrats welcome the fact that, in accordance with the Government's response to my interpellation, the Government is to set up an investigation into more legal ways into the EU. This is necessary and something that I have been arguing in the EU Council since the spring. However, we believe that it should be an EU-wide responsibility that people who want to come to the EU should be able to apply for humanitarian visas and, for that matter, also a labour visa in the EU via control outside the EU. That would put away the smuggling of human beings and the dangerous boat trips that people are now being forced into on the Mediterranean, so I welcome that. But I would like to stress that what we from the Christian Democrats are pushing is that this must happen at European level, because we can then have the opportunity to bring many to Europe. I would like to receive a comment from the Government on how he sees the EU opening up EU offices in order to apply for humanitarian visas and labour visas there.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-534	Madam President, I would like We want there to be legal ways into the EU. It is important that we have it when, at the same time, we secure the EU's external borders. The forms of how this is to be done can be discussed, and it can be many different. It is also being discussed within the EU. The EU has now, on at least three occasions, declared itself in favour of legal ways into the EU, but it remains to be seen. With regard to the EU Treaty, perhaps you should read more than one paragraph. What Mrs Pethrus is reading gives us the opportunity to draw up a policy for border control, and it is there. But it is also stated that border control is the task of the nations. It is somewhat marginal to note that the Council's legal service has not yet stated whether this is compatible with the Treaty. Perhaps Mrs Pethrus should wait for the interpretation of the Council's legal service before she herself interprets the Treaty.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-537	Madam President, I would like I realise, of course, that we ourselves must have control over our borders. It is the responsibility of the nation state. And I find it very difficult to see how the EU could take over such a security issue, because national security lies on each nation itself to decide on. As I see it, this is about the fact that if the external border is threatened, so that all Member States are threatened, we must have some kind of opportunity to act together. Now I did not get an answer to what the Prime Minister has said about the Council conclusions adopted yesterday at the European Council on the operation of a new coastguard agency. I also realise that we do not want supranationality. The Christian Democrats are opposed to supranationalism that is only there to increase supranationality in itself. However, we believe that we cannot take responsibility ourselves for the security of Turkey, as the Director-General of the Migration Agency has said, but that the EU must jointly decide how to act when the external border is threatened. If we do not secure the external border, the whole freedom of movement will fall, and we see this with the government's proposal for ID controls that we decided yesterday in Parliament. We will be forced to close our own borders if we do not ensure that the external border is guarded for our security. I thank you for your reply and the debate and wish the Government and the Bureau a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-542	Madam President, I would like I wish Désirée Pethrus a Merry Christmas. We will have to come back when we have some more concrete proposals from the European Council to discuss at the beginning of next year.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-543	Madam President, I would like Krister Hammarbergh has asked me what measures I will take to shorten the processing times of the police regarding the licensing of hunting weapons and sniper weapons. He has also asked how I will act in order for the licensing of hunting weapons and sniper weapons to be carried out in a similar way throughout the country. Krister Hammarbergh has also asked me how far the preparatory work concerning the introduction of a digital application procedure for licences for weapons for hunting and snipering purposes has come and when a proposal for the introduction of such a procedure can be expected to Parliament. A further question that Krister Hammarbergh has asked me is whether the government would like to initiate a review of the regulations governing the licensing of weapons storage in a place other than the home. Finally, Krister Hammarbergh has asked me if the government believes that Sweden should recognise the European passport in order to make it easier for hunters and sportsmen to come to Sweden to hunt or participate in sporting competitions. The Police Authority is now in a better position to achieve more effective and uniform work on arms licensing cases than has been the case in recent years. The Government has therefore commissioned the Police Authority to review and streamline procedures regarding weapons permits and to ensure that the handling is uniform and legally secure. The assignment will be sub-reported on 1 March 2016 and final report on 1 March 2017. With regard to the introduction of a digital application procedure, it is a matter for the Police Authority to deal with. Such an application procedure would make it significantly easier for those who wish to apply for an arms licence. The Police Authority has allocated resources for such work in 2016, but it is currently unclear when a system may be in use. Arms legislation must first and foremost be designed in such a way as to prevent, as far as possible, the presence of illegal weapons in the country and the criminal use of weapons. The existing framework therefore places high demands on, among other things, the storage of firearms and ammunition. In view of the current situation in society, where we see increased criminal use of firearms, it is, in my view, not appropriate at the moment to consider any changes in the regulatory framework that could mean a reduction in the current storage requirements. The requirement of authorisation for the introduction of weapons in the event of temporary use for hunting or competition has also been considered justified in particular with regard to safety aspects. The fact that Sweden requires an entry permit and does not only accept a European firearms passport as a condition for the introduction of weapons is also supported by the EU Arms Directive. If the requirement for an entry permit were abolished, it would mean that the possibility for the Police Authority to carry out checks in, among other things, the suspect and load registers and the Schengen Information System, the SIS, was significantly reduced. Therefore, the abolition of the requirement for an entry permit cannot, particularly in the current situation in society, be considered compatible with the aim of maintaining good control of the weapons introduced into and held in Sweden.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-553	Madam President, I would like It's almost Christmas, and then you're supposed to be nice. That is why I thank you for your answer, despite the fact that my four interpellations are dealt with at the same time, which gives us a little less time to talk about these important questions, and despite the fact that there are some wrong conclusions in the answer. However, the debate provides an opportunity to change certain positions. I think we'll have to split this up because it's about four things. We've been running the government ahead of us on illegal weapons. It is an important issue, not least in a European context. We think you can have two thoughts in your head at the same time. It is important both to be able to fight illegal weapons and to have a reasonable regulatory framework for those legal shooters and snipers who use their weapons in a blameless way and are not involved in any crime. We are not in favour of regulations that are not used or that are ineffective. We want effective regulations. As far as processing times are concerned, there have been problems in recent years. In a county, the processing time may be a few days while in the neighbouring county it is six months. There is no justification for this. Previously, we had the 21 police authorities. Now the conditions are better, but the situation with the processing times has led the JO to make a critical statement about the police. We also see different management of the regulations. I met some serious and talented arms dealers in Piteå. They're in big trouble. They have 21 regulations to deal with from all details. That, of course, is not acceptable. Why has it become like this? Because we have individuals within the authorities who have certain personal opinions and who use their working time to process. That is one reason why we have long processing times, but also one reason why we have different applications. This started in Västra Götaland. It then spread to my homeland, Norrbotten. Later it turned out why. One employee in Västra Götaland had changed authority and brought another application. That is not acceptable. The police as an authority have had the chance to sort this out. I have mentioned it many times, not least in the old National Police Board. I have been promised to take criticism seriously and to speed up the process. But in fact, very little has happened. The processing times have improved somewhat, but the differences in the application of the rules are still as widespread. The Transparency Council in the new authority promised last spring that there will be a regulatory framework in September October. We haven't seen that. I believe that we, as politicians, have given both the previous authorities and the new authority great opportunities to sort out the long processing times and the differences in the management of the regulatory framework. But now patience is over, and I no longer trust what the police authorities say. The government has given a mission to the police, but the timing has been too long. Now we have to deal with the situation and improve it. Madam President, I would like I will come back to the other three points of the next speech.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-565	Madam President, I would like I will also be happy to say that I share Krister Hammarbergh's picture of the situation. I share Krister Hammarbergh's criticism of the order in force during the moderate-led government. In contrast, the government has now acted. The authorities have been merged from 21 authorities to one authority. The police authority has been given a formal mandate, with requirements for reporting back to the government, on uniform procedures in all parts of the country and to improve so that the excessive length of processing times can be shortened. It is true that the processing times have already been somewhat shortened, but that is too little. It takes improvement. Therefore, the police will also work on the issue and report directly to the government. This could have been done in one of the years that Krister Hammarbergh's party dealt with the issue in the government.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-569	Madam President, I would like That was a cheap trick. The Minister knows which government did the reorganisation of the police, precisely for these reasons. I believe that we politicians have used the channels to the authority that we should use in the first place. However, when the authority does not deliver, it must go up at political level, and then it is bad to give the police unreasonable time to deal with this, anyway, until 2017. But let's take the other parts. This concerns the announcements made by the Riksdag to the Government in May. It was about digital records. We are now living with an authority where it is always difficult to conduct criminal investigations because we have a technology that is from before Gutenberg. So you sit with books and write in. There's no digital record. The interpellation response says that it would make it much easier for those applying for an arms licence. Yes, yes, it is, but the main reason why we have wanted this and have pushed forward a decision in the Riksdag is that we should get better criminal investigations and that the authority should have control over the flows. I would like to reiterate that we cannot have rules and regulations that are so ineffective that they do no good. That is why we have pressed for this. In the interpellation response, the Minister says this is up to the police. No, it's wrong, I'd say. It is the government that receives the announcement, and it is the government that must ensure that the weapons register is in place. It is not primarily for those who seek arms, but for us to gain control of the weapons and increase security. I've been interpelling about the storage of weapons. I am a little concerned when the Minister says that he cannot even consider making a change in the regulatory framework. Our motive for addressing this is that weapons must be stored in our own home and that today we have plenty of hunters hunting elsewhere than near their home. As a result, they have to transport weapons far away. We believe that we must of course have a safe regulatory framework, but that it may be better to have safe storage where you should hunt instead of being forced to transport weapons in an uncertain way far in Sweden. The motive is increased security. I think the Government should think about, for safety's sake, and consider seeing changes that are both practical and better if we are to have control of the weapons. The last part concerns the introduction of weapons. Here's a typical condition. Now an entry permit is required if you are a hunter and come from abroad. If you come from Norway, Finland or Denmark, you do not need a permit; we have no control there. The reason for the application, which takes six weeks and costs a number of cents, is that we should have control of the people's habits. It can be a good idea, but what kind of system does it have, and how does it work in practice? Yeah, you have a binder. There is no greater control, even though we have a system in place to use the EU passport. We feel that we have regulation that does not lead anywhere, because in practice some vandel is not controlled by the police in these registers. Why is it important for the government to maintain a regulatory framework that is not applied and does not add anything? If it can be done better, we are open to discussion. If the government pushes ahead with the announcement to introduce the digital archive for arms declarations on importation and does what Parliament has asked the government to do, I think we will have better opportunities for control than with today's system, which does not work.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-584	Madam President, I would like I could have an interesting administrative policy discussion with Krister Hammarbergh and the Moderates about what is the role of the government, what is the role of the parliament and what is the role of authorities. The government believes in the profession, we believe in the police and we believe in authority. We do not believe that either the government or the parliament should be far down in the government and poke in the authorities' way of working. If the Moderates now really take a different view and believe that this is the role of the government and the parliament, one might wonder why they did nothing about these records, which are from before Gutenberg, that is, before printing. Was it 400 years ago, Madam President? The Moderates spent only eight years in the government, but it was still 350 years or so after the art of printing came. If the moderate-led government thought it was a matter for politics, it might have been dusted off during the eight years you had the chance. The truth is that the Moderates neither then nor now really think that this is a matter for politics but think that it is something that the authorities should manage for themselves and that they should ensure that they have effective routines and live in digitalisation. Well, it is gratifying to note that, now that we have changed government, there are funds available for the digital register to be put in place. It should please Krister Hammarbergh. Unlike Krister Hammarbergh, I do not think it is important at this time to make changes that would make it easier for legal weapons to enter the illegal market, i.e. to be able to keep weapons in places where you do not have control of them yourself. In Krister Hammarbergh's example, they are 40 to 500 miles away, that is, at the other end of the country. I think it is important to stick to the order we have. Unfortunately, we have a rather worrying development in the EU, which has been poking at the weapons of the Swedish hunters. This is something the government has opposed, with the support of the opposition in parliament. I do not think we should give those who want to make it more difficult for Swedish hunters on their mill.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-591	Madam President, I would like It's like that when you don't have an answer and start to realize that you're out on weak ice. It should also be pointed out that previous governments should have done the job they do not want to do now. I share the view that the authorities should follow and play their role. On the other hand, when something is repeatedly raised with authorities and promised by them, it will be the policy's role to take the initiative. I think this is an opinion that Anders Ygeman shares. We can't have a situation where a blind man leads a blind man. As politicians, we must assume our responsibilities. In fact, our responsibility as politicians is to go down on details every time it is needed, when we see that things do not work, and then put political proposals at the right level. We put political proposals at the right level, i.e. make announcements here in Parliament which it is then up to the government to follow. The reason why we are now looking at registers and starting to allocate money is in fact that we from the Alliance exercised on this and got an announcement. The initiative came from our side. I ask the Government to at least consider reviewing a regulatory framework that can be made more secure. It is clear that weapons should be under control, that there should be a secure weapons storage. However, if it is possible to create a more secure storage at the site of hunting instead of transporting the weapons, perhaps 100 km, which is not unusual, that would be an improvement. We have not said that we should do so without considering starting to review the regulatory framework. But obviously you can't do that. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Government for the discussion. I wish you a Merry Christmas, Mr President, and I also wish you a Merry Christmas. I'm going to let the Government have the opportunity now during Christmas peace to think about what he really said today.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-597	Mr President, I would like to Let me just for protok ollet correct me. I was wrong about almost 100 years. On 3 February 1468 Johann Gutenberg died, that is, a little over 500 years ago, not 400 as I said. But surely it gave time for the Moderates to correct 500 - year - old mistakes during the eight years they were in government. Now they will be corrected, so Krister Hammarbergh can go on Christmas holidays in joy that the police have now set aside funds for a digital weapons register. I'm not closing the door to think about the weapons storage, so I'll tell you. But if you're 100 miles away from your weapon, it's hard to keep an eye on it. Maybe you're just where the gun is at certain times of the year. However, if there are other ways of ensuring that there is supervision and security, then let us sit down and have a constructive discussion about it.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-599	Mr President, I would like to Boriana Åberg has asked me whether I intend to follow the line taken by the European Commission with regard to the new arms directive, whether I believe that the Commission's proposal will reduce the number of crimes committed with illegal weapons and whether I believe that the Commission's proposal will have the desired effect which is proportionate to the increased workload that it imposes on the police and the disenfranchisement it entails for legal arms dealers, hunters and sportsmen. On 18 November 2015, the Commission presented proposals for amendments to the Weapons Directive. As regards the government's line on this directive, we are still at an early stage. At the same time, I and the government have doubts about certain aspects of the Commission's proposal. This concerns, for example, fixed-term licences and compulsory medical checks. It is important that the expected benefits are related to the costs and administrative burdens of the proposals. In the process of revising the Arms Directive, I will work to ensure that the changes that are decided are not unduly burdensome for individual arms owners. Among other things, I have met and will meet representatives of hunting and shooting associations to listen to their views. The proposal has also recently been referred to. The Government is keen to give interested parties the opportunity to speak.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-603	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply. After the terrible acts of terror in Paris, it is understandable that the Commission wants to do something and demonstrate its capacity for action. But there is a need for measures that cut off access to illegal weapons and explosives – not pointless restrictions that make it difficult for law-abiding citizens to pursue their hobbies. A large part of the Commission's proposal has no effect on the real problem, which is smuggling and the use of illegal weapons. The number of violent crimes committed in EU countries with legally held weapons is small. Criminal gangs find it much easier to buy smuggled illegal weapons than to break into, for example, hunters who legally own weapons. The smuggling process itself is also simple. Customs at the Öresund Bridge, for example, may not carry out checks if those in the car are more than the customs officers present. Just fill the trunk with weapons, put five big men in the car and then pass customs control. Ensuring that customs inspectors do their job would have a much better effect on illegal weapons than part of the Commission's proposal. Moreover, this is something that the Minister for the Interior could do without waiting for a directive from the EU. I return to the unreasonable proposals, such as the proposal to introduce a ban on semi-automatic rifles based on appearance, storage capacity and the possibility of extending them to full automation. Anyone who understands something about mechanics knows that to make a civilian semi-automatic weapon a fully automatic one requires knowledge, extensive intervention and access to a mechanical workshop. Moreover, such a procedure is already illegal in Sweden. Competition shooters are also concerned that the formulation of magazine capacity will complicate very much for race shooters, but have no effect whatsoever on criminals. The proposal, however, which has been most perturbed, is the ban on certain types of rifles based on appearance, which is highly arbitrary. Or as one race shooter put it: It's like banning certain hiking boots just because soldiers use shoes from the same manufacturer. The Commission wants to introduce five-year arms licences and ban online trade. Five-year licenses for guns are already available in Sweden, and the laying hours are very long, between six months and one year. If there were to be five-year licences even for rifles, the police authorities would not have time for anything else. Alternatively, processing times would be so long that when a hunter is licensed, it is high time to apply again and wait another five years.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-611	Mr President, I would like to I share much of Boriana Åberg's criticism of the Commission's proposal. I have ensured through my State Secretary that the government and the opposition are united in the criticism of the proposal. I have also ensured by meeting representatives of Sweden's hunters' organisations in particular that the government's policy is in line with the interests of Swedish hunters. I have also personally presented these things to the responsible Commissioner, Mr Avramopoulos. We are now waiting for the consultation, and then we will continue to act so that the proposals will not lead to major deteriorations for Sweden's hunters.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-613	Mr President, I would like to I welcome the Minister's position, but I would like to see a much clearer rejection of the proposal. Many other countries have already done so. The proposals, as I mentioned, are both incomprehensible and harmful. It is good that the Minister has contacted the Hunters' Association and other stakeholders. We should not forget that it is a matter of popular movements, such as hunting and sports shooting. It is peoples' movements that involve all age groups from young people to pensioners. A directive aimed at combating crimes against illegal weapons should not lead to a fight against law-abiding citizens or, even worse, an indirect ban on the practice of certain sports. All my colleagues, and probably also the Minister, have been contacted by many concerned citizens. One of them competes with his fiancée in shooting at the elite level. He and his fiancée travel around the world to participate in various competitions. He has described that, thanks to their hobby, they have bonded friendships with people throughout Europe and also in the rest of the world. It is friendships that will be more difficult to entertain if the natural hits, the shooting competitions, disappear. Perhaps I have misunderstood something, but I have always believed that European integration is about bringing the peoples of Europe closer together, facilitating contacts and building friendships. If the proposal as a whole becomes a reality, it will also have a very negative impact on business, particularly on tourism. Around Europe, shooting competitions are organised with up to 1 000 participants. Consider, for example, the small town of Hodonice in the Czech Republic. There are between 900 and 1,000 participants each year. The competitions last for five days. The average hotel cost for five nights is 350 euros. For 1 000 participants, it does 350 000 euros. Added to this are restaurant visits, tourist attractions and shopping. The Minister can imagine what a disaster it will be for the whole region if competitions are forced to stop. In addition, it will have no effect on the fight against terrorism. There are also good elements in the proposal, such as the creation of a common system for the labelling of weapons in order to facilitate traceability, the tightening up of controls on illegal weapons and the introduction of tougher rules for the plugging of weapons. As a whole, however, the proposal is a blow in the air when it comes to access to terrorists and criminals. I fear that the temptation to act against terrorism by simple means will be difficult to resist.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-618	Mr President, I would like to The reason why I asked for the floor in the debate is that I want to highlight the concerns that exist today across Sweden, both in shooting and hunting circles. I know that the Minister has been in contact with these various actors, and I wonder whether the Minister can describe a little what the future perspective is and what other initiatives the Minister intends to take in order, as I see it, to stop this in the first place and try to send it back for recasting. It is a haste in which legal weapons have been targeted, which are already registered and are no more than a single exception. Very little is being done to get to the illegal weapons that are just not in any records at all. I would like to hear what you intend to do in the police and customs field, how you think about arms amnesties in Europe and how you intend to get to the weapons that remain since war cores and other things. Are there thoughts of strengthening the legal system with regard to illegal weapons? I would therefore like to hear about the timing of this. What happens next, and when can we expect to know in what direction the government will go?
i-97885b4d41c9754b-621	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to thank the Moderates for your constructive contributions. You're a little humble and careful. After all, you have been involved in pushing for the Commission to come up with these weapons proposals. When I have come to the Committee on Justice and the European Council, you have said that you think that there should be stricter laws and rules from the European Commission. It's history. Nor can it be surprised, then, when the Commission makes the proposals that it itself has asked for and called on the government to push harder for. I am also grateful for the support that you are showing for the government's line of ensuring that Swedish hunters are not harmed in this process. But you need not be so humble that you forget your campaigns before to get this directive in place. The timetable is such that we have a proposal from the Commission which I think is inadequate and which is actually difficult to read. We've met shooting organizations and hunters. We have also ensured through the meeting of the Committee on Justice that we have the support of the opposition. We have now sent the proposal for a referral. Unfortunately, the timetable is such that there will be a short consultation period. The proposals shall be submitted on 5 January. Then we will try to arrive at a common position. My hope is that we will have a position in Sweden that is common to the government, the opposition and Swedish hunters so that we can stand strong against the Commission. I have taken the discussion personally with Commissioner Avramopoulos, and I said at the time that I believe that the Commission should come back with a new proposal. We will see whether it will also become a reality or whether we will have to push further forward. I hope that in this way we will come up with a good decision in the European Union that does not interfere unnecessarily with the conditions of the Swedish hunt, for example as regards demands for medical examination or constant renewal of permits, but that we should instead focus on things such as improving the storage of weapons in other EU countries, dealing with forged, deactivated weapons, having better marking of arms parts, making conversion more difficult and so on. That's my hope. My hope is also that we will be able to do this in broad political agreement and also in agreement with large parts of the Swedish People's Movement.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-626	Mr President, I would like to I didn't quite understand the reference to the Moderates as the minister did. However, I can make a reference to what the Minister's fellow Members of the European Parliament thought when the proposal came. They wrote like this: We're not gonna let the terror win. That is why we are strongly in favour of the Commission's proposal to strengthen arms control throughout the EU, including a total ban on private semi-automatic weapons, tougher rules on online commerce and common EU rules on the marking and control of firearms. These are effective means that the Member States should put in place immediately. It is gratifying that the Minister is giving thought and making contact with those concerned. It cannot be a secret that the Minister knows what these consultation bodies think already. Articles have been circulating extensively in the media, and citizens have contacted politicians and decision-makers at all levels. I would like to point out once again that it is dangerous and cynical to try to show momentum by targeting measures against law-abiding citizens who are easy to access. Swedish hunters and sportsmen are already heavily controlled. They have licences and keep their weapons in safes, and they do not pose any threat to anyone. I would therefore like the Minister to distance himself today from those parts of the proposal which restrict the lives of law-abiding citizens. It would be excellent for all hunters and sportsmen if the Swedish government could resist populist solutions. Finally, I would like to wish Mr President, the Bureau and the Minister a Merry Christmas.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-632	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister. I think it is important that we concentrate on what large activity shooting is in Sweden. It is one of the ten most common sports, and we have a large hunting corps with about 2 million weapons and 700 000 gun owners in the country. So this affects a lot of people. We have secure weapons storage, training and demands to have weapons. This means that Sweden has no problems with the legal weapons, but we have problems with the illegal weapons. It is as the Minister said well if we go along and agree and that we are clear in Europe so that we can put our foot down firmly. I think it is important that we should just put our foot down substantially right now from the start and say that this is a haste from the European Commission. It is remarkable to send out such a poorly substantiated proposal. There is no impact description, and moreover it almost exclusively strikes against the already legal weapons registered and used by people authorized to use them in hunting and shooting. I would like to reach out to the Minister and ask him to really be as tough on this issue as is really needed and to say that this is not something that we are up for in Sweden and that we should do it again and do it right and come back with proposals that can limit terrorism and illegal weapons in the European Union. This proposal strikes almost exclusively against the legal weapons. Sweden is already a leading country in the EU.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-635	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by explaining why stricter legislation in the EU was important for the Moderates, for example, and why the government has also pushed this issue forward. There are many problems with EU arms legislation that this proposal corrects. We had deactivated weapons that could be reactivated, which were used in both terrorist attacks in Paris. We have legal semi-automatic weapons in Europe today, which are very well adapted to be used in terrorist attacks. Such a legal weapon was used by Breivik in Norway, for example. He had a license for it, just for hunting. We have problems with the drilling and use of gas weapons for criminal purposes. We have problems with the EU having exclusive marking of weapons. There is therefore a risk that we will have weapons that are not sufficiently labelled. Many of these issues have been pursued in common. Boriana Åberg wondered about the attitude of the Moderates. When I have come to the Committee on Justice and the EU Council, the Moderates have every time pushed for tougher arms rules in the EU, in order for the Commission to speed up. I mean it's been real of the Moderates. But then one cannot be surprised that the Commission is coming back with the proposals made by the Moderates themselves. I was hoping that I was clear about the fact that there is a mistake with compulsory medical examination. I think it is wrong to have five-year temporary permits in general. I think it is wrong to go forward with an unclear and, to some extent, incomprehensible ban on certain semi-automatic weapons. Some semi-automatic and fully automatic weapons should be banned, I mean. However, the delimitation proposed by the Commission is not functional. It risks threatening vital Swedish hunting interests. I hope we stand up together, opposition, government and large parts of the hunting corps. Mr President, I would like to With those words, I would like to wish the interpellier a really merry Christmas.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-640	Mr President, I would like to I suspect that this will be the last intervention of the year for both the President and me as well as the interpeller – if nothing unforeseen happens. Daniel Bäckström has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that the lessons from the work that is now taking place with regard to the refugee situation are taken care of in the best possible way. He has also asked what measures I intend to take to ensure that the Swedish Civil Protection Agency (MSB) and the relevant actors are given the opportunity to continue to develop society's crisis preparedness capabilities. An effective way to test and develop society's crisis preparedness is through cross-sectoral exercises, such as Samö. Similarly, we also need to learn from actual events and have room to implement the lessons we learn. Managing the current refugee situation poses major challenges for municipalities, authorities and other stakeholders. However, dealing with the refugee situation also offers opportunities. The ongoing management of the refugee situation tests the ability of many actors to, among other things, management, collaboration and communication, i.e. abilities that should have been practiced in Samö 2016. The management of the refugee situation also leads to new experiences for stakeholders, which they can learn from with a view to the reconstruction of civil defence. The government has recently decided that authorities with special responsibility for and in the event of increased preparedness will resume planning for their preparedness within the framework of civil defence. The civilian defence planning instructions state that the intensive work carried out in response to the current refugee situation should be taken into account and used by county boards and other relevant authorities in civil defence planning. Finally, I would like to stress the importance of continuing exercises at local, regional, national and international level. Exercises make us better prepared to handle both the unexpected and the expected. However, in view of the strained situation of many actors, I see the reasonableness of the fact that the actors now have to focus on dealing with the current situation and, at the same time, learn from dealing with an actual event. We have a crisis management system that can manage an event while at the same time developing crisis preparedness capabilities.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-646	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Minister Ygeman for his reply. I woke up the interpellation on the basis of the information that was given at the beginning of the month that an extensive and large exercise that had long been planned in Västra Götaland, Värmland and Halland together with MSB would be cancelled. Given the current circumstances and the mission in the focus decision, which was taken this summer in connection with the defence decision, that we should resume total defence planning and in practice strengthen our overall crisis preparedness capability in the country, it feels important to raise these issues. It is important to reflect together on the resource situation and the ability in practice to face any further events at present. It feels particularly vulnerable when our authority responsible for these issues is unable to complete such an important exercise. It covers both the local level and the regional level as well as the state authorities involved in the work. It is especially important, even when there is pressure at work, to dare to raise the questions about what it would be like if further serious events were to occur in parallel. The exercise and the importance of the exercises are fundamental to our common ability to find each other at stressful times, so that the functions meet, and to gain practical experience in dealing with the real crises. I agree that many of the country's municipalities, regions and counties have many challenges to deal with in the current situation. But it varies, and the picture varies. The forecast of the situation is difficult to assess. How long can you expect the pressure to last? What is expected to happen in the months ahead? What effects will it have on the ability to launch total defence planning seriously? It is the same authorities that should be involved in that work. The mission that the government has added to the relevant authorities, not least MSB, over the next six months to return to the government with suggestions on how to proceed with total defence planning is also extremely important and has close links to exercise activities. I would also like to highlight the issue of resources. Does the Minister consider that MSB and the county administrative boards of the country have enough resources available to cope with continuing exercise and planning activities to strengthen our preparedness? Because that is exactly what we need right now. I can mention that for Värmland, which was one of the counties concerned, the County Governor took the decision on Monday to conduct his own exercise with the county's 16 municipalities concerned and also the Police Authority in spring 2017. It was felt that all the work involved in planning the cancelled exercise has been important. Then you want to get into a practice-sharp position, to test the ability together. What the county lacks are the other state activities that are not included. I might think it would be appropriate if they were. The County Governor takes an important initiative to move forward with the work, not least to motivate the local crisis preparedness coordinators who are committed to the work.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-655	Mr President, I would like to Practice makes perfect. Exercise is important for the entire emergency preparedness system. But the king beats the jack. Reality beats poem. And the real, sharp position in Sweden beats practice. It is therefore important that we manage to deal with the situation we are currently in. We have greatly reduced the search pressure to Sweden. It was at its highest in the order of 10,000 people a week. We are now down to the order of 3,000 people a week. We are beginning to see the end of the emergency situation. But there are still more people going to Sweden this week than there were during the war in the Balkans. We continue to have a very high level. That is why I think it was a reasonable decision to suspend the crisis exercise in this crisis situation. We will have to come back and carry out such major crisis exercises when we are in a better position. It will also make it easier to draw relevant conclusions.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-658	Mr President, I would like to In view of what the Minister is saying here, this is a matter of time and resources. When in time can you expect the next planning round for similar large coordinated exercises to occur? I am absolutely convinced that this type of exercise is really needed, even when the pressure is greatest on the overall authority and on the resources of society. Based on my own experience as Chairman of the Municipal Board, I know what the training sessions meant in practice, not only when there was too much wind and rain. As city councillor, I had to clear trees and participate practically in the work. When there comes great notice from the business community we had and still have the ability to practice this methodology even in other types of events. I am extremely pleased that the event preparatory work that has been going on in Sweden's municipalities has been carried out during the strategic timeout when we talk about total defence planning. It has done something about local preparedness. Then we know that it looks very different. State funding for municipal activities goes to a large extent to project grants more than to grant financing activities. Then it can vary in different municipalities. Some municipalities have a very good staffing and use the state co-financing that together with additional municipal funding makes it possible for there to be a person who works focused on the local crisis preparedness issues. In practice, other municipalities lack this possibility and have made use of the state funding provided through the County Administrative Board and MSB in various ways. This means that there can be no local conditions. D å the coordinated effort that a county but also the region can make can be extremely important for the key people in the different municipalities to get to know each other more and practice together. I have seen in practice how difficult it can be on a Saturday night during the holiday time at 22 o'clock to find key people who can be both politicians and officials. This applies not only to the municipal organisation but also to those who work within state authorities and activities and regional positions of responsibility. With my experience from sharp situations – sometimes smaller and sometimes larger events – I see that it can mean a situation in the future where it strikes wide. Sometimes crises don't come alone. At the moment, our overall ability and preparedness is crucial for the ability to cope with social protection and a stress-free working environment for key people in the crisis preparedness work that is now under pressure and pressure. One should be able to think strategically and in the long term while at the same time dealing with very extensive challenges. With regard to the involvement of the Committee on Defence, I see the importance of not only exercising the defence component in order to strengthen the overall defence, but also in practice jointly carrying out major exercises on the civilian side over the next few years in order to achieve as far as possible during the defence planning period. I look forward to further work. I know there is a strong commitment on the part of the government. Both Minister Ygeman and Minister Hultqvist are working hard to get this going. It has provided very important conditions for the authorities to come back with proposals for further work.
i-97885b4d41c9754b-667	Mr President, I would like to Daniel Bäckström, we agree in everything on the importance of practicing and the importance of, when the emergency situation rings off, bringing about major national exercises. Then I think it is too early today to make some commitments about when the crisis has ebbed out so far that exercises can be carried out and the time horizon involved, even if we see a positive development. I would also like to take this opportunity to wish both Daniel Bäckström and Mr President Merry Christmas. I am sure the Members of Parliament would do the same, but the physical presence is a little limited on this last day of the year in this House. Thank you for your good work! Merry Christmas and Happy New Year!
i-97885b4d41c9754b-671	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank you for this Christmas greeting. I hope that we can celebrate a Christmas holiday in this country under good conditions and that we will have time to think about next year's work. We know there will be major challenges. Part of the question in today's interpellation is about the collection of experience, i.e. how to take advantage of the experiences that the state authority makes during ongoing efforts. It is important that during the coming year we have the opportunity to reconcile the practical work in order to be able to make a co-sponsor on how to steer up and prioritise efforts on the exercise side. On this set we can provide additional support and discuss the current resource situation in the country's counties and municipalities, but also within MSB, in order to be able to handle and move further with the overall emergency preparedness planning and in practice advance the positions in the overall defence planning. Major ongoing events should not jeopardise the long-standing national ambition to achieve a well-functioning preparedness and clear objectives which can in practice be expected to deliver the best possible protection, both domestic and external. I would also like to wish you a Merry Christmas and thank you for the year that has passed.
