i-bdc0d92ac2b8b3fb-0	Mr President, I would like to With this budget, the government takes a firm hold on public finances. At the same time, we invest for the major challenges we see in Sweden. We invest in more jobs, in a better school and in new climate technology. That's how we deliver on the promises we made in the election campaign a year ago. To achieve this, we have had to make many difficult decisions. Firstly, it is a matter of being able to prioritise. You can't do everything you want right now. Secondly, it is a question of re-prioritising measures which have not had the desired effect. Thirdly, we have had to propose tax increases. It has not been easy decisions to make. But in a situation where we inherited running budget deficits, high unemployment and falling school outcomes, it has been necessary decisions to take to meet Sweden's challenges. Our position is clear. Investments, jobs and schools are ahead of major tax cuts. Since we discussed the budget this spring, the economy in our surrounding world has developed somewhat more positively. Maybe that's not the feeling you have with you after the summer. We had the Greek drama in July and the shock on the Shanghai Stock Exchange in August. After long and tough negotiations, the euro area countries managed to agree on a new aid package for Greece, and the first payments have already taken place. The immediate risk to Greece and Greece's economy has been reduced, although there is, of course, still uncertainty about economic and financial developments in the slightly longer term. Developments in China are difficult to assess. The regime is trying to shift from a more investment-driven economy to more consumption-driven growth. It's an operation that presents difficulties. It is too early to say what real economic effects the stock exchange case will have. It came after a massive upturn in the stock market. Similarly, it is difficult to know what the effects will be of what is often called the devaluation of the Chinese currency when it might rather need to be described as an attempt at some market adjustment of the currency. There is reason to believe that growth will be more subdued in China in the future, more subdued than it has been in recent years. What happens in China means more directly to Sweden than what happens in Greece. If we look at our neighbours, it's going a little slower there. Finland's economy has developed weakly. In Norway, low oil prices have slowed the economy down somewhat. Looking at the whole picture, we see that overall growth in the world is increasing in the coming years. The American economy is going well. The labour market is developing well. We are also seeing a recovery in the euro area countries, including Spain and Italy. A good development in the outside world is of course also good for the Swedish economy. In the coming years we are seeing rising growth, increasing employment and seeing a sharp fall in unemployment. Overall, the future can be seen with some confidence, although there are of course risks of setbacks. Mr President, I would like to Sweden is a society. All of us who live here are part of that community. When we are included here together, it is also reasonable that we make demands and have high expectations of each other. Everyone who can work should also do so, whether you have a year or 45 years left to retire, whether you have lived your whole life in Sweden or if you have just been told to stay. We should have high expectations that everyone will be involved and contribute. The opposite of high expectations is that one has given up the belief that someone can actually contribute. This approach will be very poor if we do not also give people the opportunity to be able to contribute and work. Therefore, the government has such a clear focus in its job agenda for Sweden to create those conditions. All people should have access to the tools they need to be able to contribute. The demands to do their duty do not end with working or running a company. Roads, schools, healthcare and care, a well-functioning rule of law – all this is based on our contribution via the tax bill. Doing everything you can to avoid paying taxes is not sustainable. To constantly call for large tax exemptions precisely for one's own business, for the life pattern one has or for the goods and services one consumes itself is also not sustainable in the long term. What you do in practice is pass the bill on to someone else. It is to make demands on others that are not similar to the demands you make on yourself. My view is that we should make the same demands on ourselves as we make on others. That is what distinguishes a good society. These must be clear requirements and high expectations. We need a Sweden where everyone is involved and contributes.
i-bdc0d92ac2b8b3fb-15	Mr President, I would like to Next year another SEK 10 billion will be invested for more jobs in Sweden. We're going to make demands that everyone should work according to their abilities, and we're going to create more jobs. The housing shortage must be combated apartment for apartment. SEK 6 billion is allocated for support for municipalities that develop land to build on, in support for those who build rental and old-age housing, as well as in renovation and energy efficiency of the existing stock. It provides jobs here and now, and it also creates conditions for growth in the future. It is a support that is given with clear requirements for delivery. You also need to build cheap and energy-efficient housing in order to get the chance of support. The investment we are now making in the budget is the largest housing policy investment that Sweden has seen in over 20 years.
i-bdc0d92ac2b8b3fb-17	Next year, 50,000 more places will be created in training and matching than in the previous year. In 2018, there will be 80,000 more. Why are we doing this? Because we have a situation of 400 000 unemployed while there are 80 000 job vacancies. There's a recruitment gap. What we do with the initiative is build bridges across the gap. The bridges have names such as komvux, vocational adult, polytechnic, f olkhögskola, trainee jobs, extra services. We build broad bridges that 80,000 people will be able to cross each year. Through high demands and good educational opportunities, we will close the recruitment gap. We will ensure that Swedish companies do not have to refuse an order because they do not find the right skills. We need to invest more in education for all the unemployed.
i-bdc0d92ac2b8b3fb-19	Mr President, I would like to Going ahead creates export opportunities and jobs for Swedish companies. With this budget, we are making further efforts to promote our exports, so that more companies can take the step into the export market. We also let state, county councils and municipalities take the lead through smart and innovation-driven procurements that create jobs in companies that can grow and then export. We take the lead in climate change, develop new products and implement energy efficiency improvements in our housing portfolio. It creates jobs here and now but also export opportunities for Swedish companies. We strengthen welfare – we make sure that fewer people give up care and that fewer people need to stay home from work because welfare doesn't work. It creates jobs here and now and provides the opportunity for more people to work more. Anyone who wants and does an effort to create more jobs in Sweden and combat unemployment, all of them should know that this government is behind them in their important work.
i-bdc0d92ac2b8b3fb-23	This budget is the result of cooperation between the government and the Left Party. It's a good budget for our elderly. It is about strengthening security through more staff in care for the elderly and strengthening support for elderly people's housing, and this is about the finances of pensioners. Barely a year ago, the Swedish Democrats stopped the proposal to lower taxes on Swedish pensioners, contrary to what was said in the electoral movement. Today, we are once again putting that proposal on the table of Parliament. We do this so that the idea that our elderly should pay extra high taxes, the idea that the bourgeois parties had and introduced, is simply very strange. With today's proposal, all pensioners with an income of up to 20 000 a month will have reduced tax and the tax gap will be completely closed for pensioners with the lowest pensions. In addition, we propose free outpatient visits to all over 85 years of age. Together with the 4% increase in pensions coming at the turn of the year and the housing supplement raised on 1 September, this will make life easier for many pensioners. It is a great joy to be able to strengthen the economy and security of our elderly. They are the ones who have built up the Sweden we are all so proud of.
i-bdc0d92ac2b8b3fb-26	Mr President, I would like to This budget is placed on Parliament's table in an exceptional situation. The number of refugees in the world has not been so large since World War II. We have all seen pictures of overcrowded boats and trains and of people walking along the roads and motorways of Europe. The government's position is very clear: all countries in Europe need to be involved in taking responsibility in this emergency situation. At the same time, let us remember one thing: although no country in Europe is doing this for its own benefit, it is not without points for an ageing Europe that families of working age are now coming here. If we create a fair distribution between our countries in Europe, this can also create the conditions for increased growth on our continent. The same applies in Sweden. Each municipality needs to be involved in taking responsibility in the same way that every country in Europe needs to be involved in taking on its responsibilities. If we create a reasonable distribution within Sweden, then the opportunity to make the best of the situation increases. There is no one who claims that this will not involve challenges and hard work. It will be an effort for our society, not least in the municipalities. Municipalities and county councils, Migration Agency, Arbetsförmedlingen, NGOs and individuals make a fantastic effort every day to create a good start for the people who have moved and are now starting a new life in Sweden. The budget submitted contains a wide range of proposals to strengthen this work. We propose better financial conditions for municipalities when they receive new arrivals. We provide support so that teaching in Swedish can be arranged already at the construction housing. We are increasing support for civil society efforts. Everyone also needs to be able to get their first job in Sweden. That is why we are proposing a substantial reinforcement of targeted measures for newcomers, better validation and complementary training. Many who now come to Sweden have an education in areas where there is a shortage of labour in Sweden. In order for all children to receive the support they need in school, we increase the compensation to municipalities by 50% for asylum seekers' children's schooling. In addition, several of the other proposals the government has to invest in Sweden will also be useful in this regard – increased housing construction and more further training, to take two examples. Mr President, I would like to We in Sweden have a long and proud history to sit back on. Setting up for others in emergency situations is a central part of Swedishness and Swedish history. During World War II, Swedish families opened their homes to 73,000 Finnish war children. At the end of World War II, 30 000 baltes in barely seaworthy boats came across the Baltic Sea. Hungary- 56 and Czechoslovakia- 68 are years known for communist repression but also for people fleeing to Sweden. After the right-wing coup in Chile-73 Sweden welcomed 25 000 new citizens. The Balkan wars in the 1990s gave us 100 000 more citizens. We have 70 000 people who live in Sweden born in Iran. Has this made Sweden a worse society? No. People learn Swedish. You've got a place to live and get a job. The kids went to school. Today, many in the Swedish labour market have this very background – among other things, many of those who have been involved in working out the budget that I now put on Parliament's table and many of those who here in Parliament will carry that bill forward in parliamentary work. So looks contemporary Sweden. It is a fantastic Sweden, of which we should all be proud.
i-bdc0d92ac2b8b3fb-38	Mr President, I would like to I think that many people in Sweden are very concerned about the future. Many feel that our country is progressing in the wrong direction. Not least, many view economic development with mistrust. Will jobs be enough when global competition hardens? It's a common question. Will welfare be enough when fewer and fewer people are going to support more and more people? How do we allow all of us to contribute? And not least, how do we demand and expect everyone who can also contribute? I think many people see big problems and understand that the problems are quite complex. But few see a government that exercises clear political leadership, a leadership that doesn't settle for simple answers to rather difficult questions – so it doesn't say that everything is the fault of immigration, which it's good that the government doesn't – or most of it sticks its head in the sand and believes that a little more of the old usual will suddenly produce completely new results, which therefore doesn't believe that higher taxes on low incomes will give more people the chance to get their very first job. I think one of the biggest problems of our time is that it is so difficult to get into the Swedish community, that both get to contribute and are expected to do good, and that it creates a new kind of alienation. It is not as broad as the old, when adult early retirement was removed, but narrower and deeper: young people without sufficient education and foreign-born without sufficient experience are excluded. This is seen by all Swedes around our country, in large cities and in small towns, here in Stockholm and at my home in Strängnäs. It feeds mistrust between people. This reduces the opportunities for Sweden to be successful in the increasingly global economy, where both people and companies move across borders. I have a question for the Minister for Finance: Which of your tax increases makes it easier for a young person to come in and get their very first job, and which of them makes it easier for a newcomer who does not yet know Swedish to get his first job here in Sweden?
i-bdc0d92ac2b8b3fb-44	Mr President, I would like to Ulf Kristersson is quite right that eight years of bourgeois government have created a new and deeper alienation. It is eight years of tax-merger policy, when it has refrained from carrying out important investments, which are the cause of the problems that Ulf Kristersson points out. The exact measures the government makes in this budget to help young people get jobs are the education contract that the government implements. This means that young people who are unemployed and do not have upper secondary school education should be given the opportunity to take the upper secondary school degree. It will also be a requirement for young people to receive compensation. We are doing this because we know that unemployment among young people who do not have upper secondary education is twice as high as among those who have upper secondary education. It is a very clear precise measure to help young people get into their first job. We are also introducing trainee jobs for young people with upper secondary education. You may not have completed vocational training, but you have completed a theoretical training course and need to supplement the nursing programme, for example, in order to be trained as a nurse. Then you combine it with practice. These are two concrete measures for more young people to get a job. We are also investing heavily in universities of applied sciences: 2 500 places next year and 6 000 places the following year. We know that nine out of ten graduates of university of applied sciences also come to work. For new arrivals, we are making specific investments in this budget. We'll bet. We are investing in a fast track into the labour market for people who are now applying for asylum and who are granted a residence permit in Sweden and who have an education or professional experience that is requested on the Swedish labour market. We also strengthen efforts to validate and organise Swedish education already at asylum homes. These are some of the measures the government implements to ensure that people in the particular groups you point to will come in and get jobs.
i-bdc0d92ac2b8b3fb-49	Mr President, I would like to I note that the government in this budget increases taxes for the youngest who work, for the oldest who work, for those with high education who work and for those with lower education who work. But not in a single word does the Minister of Finance touch on the importance of the tax issue itself for the work in Sweden in his reply. Stefan Löfven does much the same. He promised before the election to give every minister the task of reporting whether their decision led to fewer or more jobs. But such impact assessments have become fewer and worse. I don't know if that's what I think. Maybe nothing impresses the Minister of Finance. But I'm far from alone. In the latest Economic Debate, a magazine that many economists read, Professor Lennart Flood points out:.Where the alliance in its previous budget proposals had extensive impact calculations, the proposal was presented in the current government budget to increase the marginal tax rate by stepping up the job tax deduction without any attempt at an impact assessment. As she puts it, the Minister for Finance has a text in today's budget. How does this affect the chance to get a job in Sweden?
i-bdc0d92ac2b8b3fb-52	Mr President, I would like to Now there is a great deal of impact from the budgets of the previous government that has not been reported. What, for example, is the employment effect of an increase in the number of young people leaving the ninth grade because they did not invest enough in school? No effects were reported. There were no effects from the fact that the coal was not expanded when the youth litters increased and fewer young people were given the opportunity to go to college. No employment effects were reported. When you did not invest in care for the elderly, so that women go down in working time to take care of their older relatives, the employment effects that were not reported at Ulf Kristersson's time in the government. Ulf Kristersson feels that we are not talking enough about the importance of taxation for employment. This may also be because we have had eight years of tax cuts in the 130 billion class, with higher unemployment – higher long-term unemployment and higher youth unemployment.
i-bdc0d92ac2b8b3fb-56	Mr President, I would like to Minister for Finance Magdalena Andersson! In the government budget, you are spending almost 170 billion on migration and integration for the budget period, four years. That's 170,000 million, 18 billion more than last year. Nevertheless, it is a budget based on a forecast that is no longer valid. It was before recent events. The Finnish Immigration Service has already announced that more money will be requested in October. What, then, affects the flow of refugees? Well, that is, for example, how we live up to the agreements we have signed within the framework of the European Union, such as the Schengen Agreement and the Dublin Regulation. We've seen some strange statements from the government lately. On the one hand, Denmark and Hungary have been criticised for complying with the Schengen Agreement and the Dublin Regulation. Austria and Germany have been welcomed because they have not done the same but have broken the two agreements. Then, strangely enough, there is also happiness in criticising Denmark for their sudden violation of the Treaty. They violated the first-country principle and let asylum applicants through to Sweden. Then all of a sudden they got criticism for it too. At the same time, Sweden has violated the Dublin Regulation and released people to Finland. It has now led the Finnish Minister for the Interior to say today that consideration is being given to reintroducing border controls against Sweden. The question arises quite simply: What is the matter? What applies to Sweden and other countries in the EU, should we take into account the agreements we have signed or not? Is it different for different countries? Now the government has complained about countries for both reasons, partly because they respect the agreements and partly because they do not. How does the Swedish Government view the Schengen Agreement and the Dublin Regulation?
i-bdc0d92ac2b8b3fb-62	Mr President, I would like to Under the Dublin Regulation, you have the right to apply for asylum. It is one of the human rights. You have the right to seek asylum. There have been criticisms that individual countries have prevented people from seeking asylum. You're not supposed to do that. It has the right to derogate from the Schengen Regulation if it is deemed to threaten its security. Individual countries in Europe have done so. They therefore have the right to do so under the Schengen Regulation. I also have a question I would like to ask Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström. We have recently been able to read about how the representatives of the Swedish Democrats have spent time with the managers of the Swedish business community. A leading Swedish democrat who said that it is probably also very profitable for the business community, because, as he says: It is easier to influence us than other parties. Obviously, it has been too. After a few dinners, with perhaps starters, main course, dessert, better wine and perhaps a brandy for the coffee, the Swedish Democrats have obviously changed their minds. Then it no longer matters so much what was said before the elections. Prior to the elections, the aim was to stop the leakage of tax money, which amounts to profits for private companies operating in welfare businesses. They get big profits by lowering quality. This was considered very important by the Swedish Democrats prior to the elections. Now that you've had dinners and flirted with leading business representatives, you don't think so anymore. Then it is apparently going to go down in the pockets of follow-up representatives instead. But not only does it feel that the money for care and care should continue to run away. On top of this, a drastic proposal is being made to cut resources to the municipalities, which would be a killing blow to care for the elderly, childcare and school. These are very dramatic cuts that you want to make in the finances of the municipalities. All in all, this would of course be a hit against the municipalities but, I am afraid, perhaps above all a hit against the credibility of the Swedish democrats.
i-bdc0d92ac2b8b3fb-67	Mr President, I would like to Minister for Finance Magdalena Andersson! You boasted just now in your speech of 10 billion in a job initiative and 6 billion in a housing policy initiative – 16 billion together. That would be the biggest investment in 20 years. At the same time, 18 billion increases in the cost of migration and integration, and we still do not know where the end of the bill is – 18 billion is just the increase. I just wanted to point that out. With regard to other comments from Magdalena Andersson, I would like to say this: You should not base your policy on ill-founded articles in news media. Go back and look at what we said in March 2014, at our election conference! Our elected representatives then formed the policy that is now in force in this area. This has nothing to do with what we have done or said at dinners with representatives of the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise or others. The political orientation was adopted at our election conference in March 2014. This has not been highlighted by DI, nor by the Minister for Finance.
i-bdc0d92ac2b8b3fb-70	Mr President, I would like to When we look at where the money goes in the state budget, it is also important to look at how the money comes in. When people move to Sweden and work, we also get tax revenue. It is easy to forget this if you are a Swedish democrat. Then it is also clear that it is free for the business community: Invite the Swedish Democrats to dinners! It's easy to change their minds. It is easy to influence them, according to them. If you want your opinion to be supported by a party, it is time to invite the representatives of the Swedish Democrats to dinner. Perhaps that is not what the voters had expected.
i-bdc0d92ac2b8b3fb-73	Mr President, I would like to I get a little upset when I hear the Finance Minister in the line shift with Ulf Kristersson, where she seems to mean that he would account for the employment effects of the school not working as well as it should. First of all, the Minister for Finance does not do it himself. Secondly, the Minister of Finance knows she's talking nonsense, and she should know better. There have been other questions during the day. We saw a press conference earlier when the big question was whether it was 60 or 80 per cent of Swedish households that receive lower disposable income. No matter who's right, it's way too bad. Whether it is 60% or 80%, this is a sign that we need a better policy which, on the contrary, makes it easier and cheaper for people to get into work, so that more people can get a pay slip and so that more people can earn more. The fact that the state budget now contains massive tax increases in terms of jobs and entrepreneurship is nothing new. We got the numbers today. It is 28 billion that will be paid through young people's employers' contributions, reduced ROT deductions and much more. It will burden the job creators who have to create the job opportunities that we need to make Sweden as good a society as possible. But there's one news we saw. There has been a slight glimpse during the debate, but the budget states that the job stimulus in the establishment allowance will disappear. All our new arrivals, those who will put their feet on the Swedish labour market, will thus receive lower incentives for this. It should be less profitable to move from start-up pay to work – this in a situation where we have to do everything to ensure that as many people as possible enter the labour market, as it is the best integration measure we can ever do. Why is the government doing this, Magdalena Andersson?
i-bdc0d92ac2b8b3fb-79	Mr President, I would like to Yeah, that's one of the changes we're making. We do not think that we should be able to have double compensation. If you work full time, you should not at the same time be able to have a start-up allowance. However, you will be able to work some extra without getting rid of it. If you have a full-time job, we do not think it is reasonable to have double benefits. Since we inherited running budget deficits and had large budget deficits, we need to take responsibility and finance the reforms we are making. We're making some tax increases. It's painful but necessary. We are also making some changes. One should not be able to have double remuneration; this applies to jobs and start-up benefits. But all this money we then spend on reforms to build and strengthen Sweden. Not everything goes straight into people's pockets. For example, it is not visible in the pocket when we improve the school, but it is clear that it matters very much to disposable income if you manage the school or not. When we invest in people being able to take vocational training so that they can get a job, it is not directly visible on disposable income. But it is clear that having vocational training so that you can get a job instead of going unemployed makes a huge difference to disposable income. All the resources that we scrape together by raising taxes and by making savings in different ways we then use to strengthen growth conditions and job opportunities in Sweden. Everything goes back to all people who live in Sweden.
i-bdc0d92ac2b8b3fb-83	Mr President, I would like to I want to thank the Minister of Finance for her openness and honesty, because here it was straight pucks. There were no question marks here. Yes, the government removes the job stimulation in the establishment allowance. It was a very honest and open message. Just as honest and open should be when you write your state budget. If proposals are made in the economic field, it is also necessary to describe the employment effects. Fortunately, we don't just have to trust the Ministry of Finance when you choose not to present this information. There are others who estimate that the current tax changes will cost 15 000 to 20 000 jobs in the Swedish economy. Instead, of course, we should have a policy that provides more jobs. Instead, we will make it easier and cheaper to hire, so that everyone, both young and newly arrived with job stimulation and others, enters the labour market, so that we build Sweden as strong as it can be.
i-bdc0d92ac2b8b3fb-86	Mr President, I would like to Emil Källström has a problem. He's just looking at one side of the coin. Yeah, we're raising some taxes. But we don't put the money in our pocket, we use it. We use the tax increases to create the conditions for people to get jobs. We spend money on the school so that the kids learn enough in school so that they can go to high school and then get into work. If you haven't finished high school, you have very hard to get a job. We spend money on all the young people who haven't finished high school. They should be able to get a secondary school education and combine it with work so that they can then get a job. We are using money to enable the long-term unemployed to get a job at Samhall instead of going idle. We spend money on increased wage support and wage subsidies for people with disabilities who are unemployed, in order for them to get to work. Overall, it is assessed that this will provide jobs. But you have to be able to see the back and front of the coin and not be one-eyed, Emil Källström.
i-bdc0d92ac2b8b3fb-90	Mr President, I would like to The Social Democrats were careless with economic policy in opposition. Magdalena Andersson now stands and says: Yes, but it was based on the deficit of the alliance government. But go back and look at your own budgets! Had your budgets gone through, the financial savings would have been SEK 15 billion less each year. That would have been the case with a Social Democratic budget. It may seem unproblematic to promise everything to everyone before election day. But the problem is that we are now seeing a government that continues to be careless with economic policy. Beyond the figures that Magdalena Andersson puts on Parliament's table, there are a lot of joy calculations. It is statically expected that any tax increases you make will generate revenue in the Treasury – against all economic knowledge. Because it is so that you make it more expensive to hire young people or make it more expensive to work and people have to pay more taxes, it is worked a few less hours. Magdalena Andersson knows that, but she does not report it to the Riksdag. We have a substantial under-financing in the proposal to remove the lower parentheses in health insurance. In a situation where sick leave increases far too much, the government chooses to remove the more distant parentheses. We run the risk of running costs in health insurance. Swedish finances are seriously at risk. Then Magdalena Andersson talks about jobs as usual. It is good that Magdalena Andersson is talking about jobs. But we can look at those who are examining the government's employment policy: does anyone believe in the government's employment policy? The Institute of Economics has criticized it. The Council of Finance Ministers has criticised it. The Financial Control Agency has criticized it. Today, Arbetsförmedlingen questions whether the target is reached. The Confederation of Swedish Enterprise is doubtful. Sweden's entrepreneurs are hesitant. This applies even to the government's own budget, which is at the table of the Riksdag. If you read it and try to understand what it says, you realize that there is no chance of reaching the government's employment targets by 2020. But I'm gonna give Magdalena Andersson the chance. All right, let's ignore what's in the budget, where it shows that the potential employment rate will decrease in the coming years. We ignore what the budget says about unemployment being 6.2% in 2019. Can Magdalena Andersson mention an independent judge who believes that the government will achieve its job goal?
i-bdc0d92ac2b8b3fb-96	Mr President, I would like to It's absolutely fascinating. So we have a peoples' party calling for dynamic calculations in the state budget. Erik Ullenhag may remember which party the Minister of Finance came from when we stopped making dynamic calculations. It was the People's Party. It was the People's Party that led the Ministry of Finance and that drove Sweden straight into a budget morass, via dynamic calculations where tax cuts would provide huge numbers of jobs. It was a disaster for Sweden. The People's Party is now calling for dynamic calculations. I wonder, of course, whether Erik Ullenhag will have dynamic calculations in his own budget exercise? I assume Erik Ullenhag will propose a abolished military tax. Will Erik Ullenhag finance the abolished military tax, or will Erik Ullenhag expect it to finance itself?
i-bdc0d92ac2b8b3fb-98	Mr President, I would like to I think it's good to answer questions. I did not receive an answer to the question as to whether there was an independent judge who believes in the government's employment policy. You can try the next line. The answer to the question is: No, you should not finance a removed defense tax with dynamic calculations. But when you raise taxes, however, you have problems in your budget, because you expect to get in every penny of tax you statically raise. You don't think a single one's gonna work an hour less. You don't think a single younger person gets a job when the youth worker's contribution is raised. If you do not make dynamic calculations in that situation, that means building a budget hole. There is a budget on Parliament's table which unfortunately does not stick together. But, as I said, I answered the Finance Minister's question. I'll give you one more chance. If you read the government budget, you realize it doesn't make sense. The target will not be reached. But can you mention any independent assessors who over the past year have said that the Council has a good policy to achieve its 2020 target for jobs?
i-bdc0d92ac2b8b3fb-101	Mr President, I would like to We are, of course, following the calculation conventions that exist at the Ministry of Finance. Then you don't account for dynamic calculations. Erik Ullenhag will obviously not himself present dynamic calculations. He argues that this should be done precisely in the case of tax increases, but not in the case of tax reductions. In that case, Erik Ullenhag would perhaps have presented dynamic calculations during his years in the government, for example, regarding the fact that fewer young people are allowed to attend the university or that an increasing proportion of young people do not graduate with approved grades. Or he might have presented dynamic calculations of the fact that after eight years with a public party as a minister for school, school results fall faster than in any other OECD country and that one is below the OECD average on all the subjects measured. It would have been interesting to see this. As far as the government's employment policy is concerned, we have set an ambitious target. That is why we will come back with additional measures in every budget that we put forward. As Erik Ullenhag points out, unemployment is falling considerably in the forecast in this budget. But we will make further proposals.
i-bdc0d92ac2b8b3fb-105	Mr President, I would like to The best thing about the government budget is that I have had the opportunity to re-acquaint myself with the amazing album I have brought here – The Dark Side of the Moon by Pink Floyd. The dark side of the moon, then, is the title – the back of the moon. It's the side, you know, that never gets lit and never really visible. This budget has such a reverse. It has a dark side; one could even say a dark side. It is a side that the government never wants to show up in the light and that the government may not even see for itself. On the back of the budget there are major consequences for jobs and growth, and therefore also for welfare and for the space for individuals and families. That is the effect of 40 billion in tax increases, of which about 80 000 on labour and entrepreneurship. It provides fewer jobs, less faith in the future, shrinking companies, less welfare in the long term and increased gaps in the long term when the gap between those who have a job and those who have not widened. These consequences are about as visible as the dark side of the moon. We have also heard here before that the reporting of the effects is very inadequate. We are not told about the government's assessments of how many thousand jobs the proposals cost. Is it 10,000, 20,000, 40,000 or more? What is visible at press hits are different types of small ventures – a kind of hail heat of this. We see tens of millions of investments in industry in the spotlight. But there are tens of billions on the dark side of the budget, and if this is not held, there are no press conferences. The government knows very well what the consequences will be of this policy, which is hitting jobs. It would be good if Magdalena Andersson wanted to account for how much.
i-bdc0d92ac2b8b3fb-110	Mr President, I would like to Now I don't really know what reforms Jakob Forssmed thinks is the dark back of the moon. Is it the fact that 15 000 more people will be allowed to attend an education that leads to jobs? Is it that we increase Samhall by 10 percent so that more people have the opportunity to work there? Is it that we are increasing wage subsidies and wage subsidies so that more people with disabilities can get into work? Is it the fact that we are investing in investment aid for rentals so that 15 000 more rentals are built each year? Is it that we invest in commercial services in sparsely populated areas and broadband coordinators so that more people in sparsely populated areas can get broadband and a good service? Is it the fact that we invest more in road maintenance, railway maintenance or public transport in sparsely populated areas? Is it the fact that we are lowering the tax on pensioners after the Christian Democrats have been involved in creating a system in which pensioners pay higher taxes than ordinary wage earners? Is it the fact that we make healthcare free of charge for our elderly? Is that a dark back? Is it the fact that we are now spending more money on leisure homes so that our children can have better leisure time when school is over and maybe a little more help with homework- to propose some reforms? It is clear, however, that reforms also need to be financed. We do, too, and because we inherited a runaway budget deficit, we need to take responsibility for funding. A smart way of taxing money and a smart way to use it will make the overall impact good for both jobs and growth. This is why we see that the Nordic welfare models are doing well in terms of both welfare and growth and employment. It is a good tradition that we pursue in this budget.
i-bdc0d92ac2b8b3fb-112	Mr President, I would like to Treasures in a smart way, says Magdalena Andersson. Thus, 40 billion in tax increases, especially on labour and entrepreneurship, are smart estimates. This is how Magdalena Andersson tells us about some of the initiatives she has already told us about in the spotlight. This was precisely my point, namely that you do not describe the consequences that exist and that you put on the dark side. On the back of the moon – on the back of the budget – there are 40 billion in tax increases. Is it smart tax policy to introduce special wage taxes for the elderly and to reduce RUT and ROT? We heard the Director-General of the Employment Service this morning who very strongly questioned whether this would solve the problems of jobs. There will be increased employers' contributions for young people and increased job taxes for police officers, teachers and specialist nurses. Stefan Löfven promised before the election that you would not make any proposals that would not lead to more jobs. But you are not reporting this, and it is probably because you suspect that these very measures lead to fewer jobs.
i-bdc0d92ac2b8b3fb-114	Mr President, I would like to The former bourgeois government was passionate about using expensive and inefficient tax reductions. The employer's contribution for young people is the crown jewel of that particular crown. It is a measure that costs taxpayers almost 20 billion each year and which a united team of experts has condemned because it is extremely expensive and extremely inefficient. When we have major challenges for Sweden and need to make important investments and, at the same time, have large budget deficits, we must dare to reconsider things that have gone wrong. The youth worker's contribution is one such measure. It will be exciting to see what you various four bourgeois parties are now going to propose as regards the youth worker's contribution in your budget movements. I do not think that you will propose that it should be in exactly the same extremely expensive and inefficient way, which has cost taxpayers billions after billions without having the job effect that I think you hoped for when you introduced it.
i-bdc0d92ac2b8b3fb-116	Mr President, I would like to With all due respect for the Swedish state budget, I want to start in Sweden's rather dramatic environment. The current refugee situation both dominates European policy and gives us perspective on our own problems. Many countries are now making great efforts to provide room and future for more people. Other countries do far too little. Only a few months ago, instead, the Greek crisis dominated. Within a few years, British relations with the EU will be tested in a referendum. Not for many years has Europe's economic and political future been as unclear as at present. Now, in the days of exactly seven years after the outbreak of the financial crisis, the world economy is growing. Let me make four short geographical impact. America may no longer dominate all the world's policies, but they run a good part of the world's economy. After the financial collapse and recession, the American economy is growing at a good pace. A large country never lacks problems, but not least in the innovative digital and growing tech industry, the USA is the world leader. The US is Sweden's third export market outside the Nordic region, and the US retaliation means a lot to large Swedish industrial companies such as SKF, Volvo and Ericsson. If we look east, we see something quite different in China. Certainly China has a bnp growth of double US figures, but still only half of the last decade's growth record. Many people realize that growth of 7% is much more economically and ecologically sustainable than that of 10 to 15 percent. At the same time, the signals are ambiguous. The massive interventions after the summer stock market fall in Shanghai, as well as the total lack of transparency, create uncertainty as to what is actually happening and where China is going. The fact that the world's second largest economy must be interpreted by rumours and Chinese cremlology is not a good sign. A third stop shows that Europe's economy is also growing, albeit from low levels and at different speeds. The Greek drama shows what happens if you do not have basic order in your economy, but it also points out that the euro requires a great deal of respect for common institutions and that it becomes dangerous for everyone when some fall. Greece's economic importance should not be exaggerated, but its political importance for the credibility of the euro should not be underestimated either. Then Britain is the opposite. Growth is good, unemployment is low and the breadth of the services sector impresses – from the most advanced financial industry to many jobs with low barriers. It's a force for Britain. However, if the grexit showed the need for strong common rules, Brexit shows that the Union must also allow inequality in order to be legitimate. All this suggests that Europe, by far the most important trading partner in Sweden, has a messy year ahead of it. My last map pin must be set in Berlin. Germany is increasingly becoming the centre of Europe's economy and politics, and nothing can change in Europe any more without Germany's participation. And what Germany wants now, many others want too. I believe that in Swedish politics we have underestimated Germany's importance, but Swedish companies know it for a long time: Germany is Sweden's second largest export market. Mr President, I would like to For the Swedish part, some conclusions should be drawn from all of this. So the economy is growing, but the uncertainties are great. For a small country with large companies – a country that builds half its GDP on exports – a deep understanding of what is happening in the outside world is crucial. So we are more affected by the outside world than we can influence it ourselves. The first conclusion is therefore that Sweden must now do everything right at home. There is no room for bad economic policy. Secondly, it is now time for such reforms that improve the long-term Swedish economy and Swedish competitiveness. We learned many lessons from the 1990s crisis – also what not to do. Reforms should not be carried out too late, too reluctantly and then in panic. It is both braver and wiser to use the relative strength of Sweden's economy right now to initiate reforms that can lay the foundation for future success. Thirdly, the economic recovery must be used to re-establish the Swedish economy in the face of the next crisis. Because it's coming. Back to surplus! You shouldn't say a lot of investment if you mean spending. Control of public spending should be the Ministry of Finance's core task right now. The Swedish economy is going pretty well now. We have a growing employment. We have manageable deficits and a low state's debt. We have successful export companies and should be well equipped to face the new wave of internationalisation, by both companies and families, which today's globalisation means. But we also have difficult tasks ahead of us. The most important thing is to include those who now do not even get their first job. Many people work because Sweden now has high expectations that everyone who can also work and support themselves. Therefore, if even more people are to be included in the labour market, those who are currently excluded must be admitted. Unemployment among young people without education and among foreign born without the Swedish language and Swedish work experience is approaching Greek levels. Nor does anything suggest that these problems will be solved by themselves or by the government's 1970s-scented incantations that politics is will. I am deeply concerned about what will happen in a Sweden where tens of thousands of young and foreign born are permanently out of work. The government's response is to raise already high thresholds. Mr President, I would like to The core of the government's and the Left Party's economic policy is total tax increases during the budget period of SEK 154 billion. SEK 154 billion! It is 15 800 SEK per Swede of all ages, or 32 000 SEK per working Swedish taxpayer. Most of these tax increases are also spent on work and entrepreneurship. The tax on pensioners who continue to work is increased by a special payroll tax for them. The tax on hiring the youngest is increased by increasing employers' contributions for them. The tax for the well-educated is increased when the job tax deduction is reduced and marginal taxes are increased to 60% for them. White jobs are becoming fewer and black jobs more when RUT and ROT deteriorate. Sweden survived the crisis better than others because we had well-managed public finances when the crisis came. Nothing's easier to lose. Well-managed public finances are not primarily based on the government's ability to tax. On the contrary, it is the simplest task – with all due respect – of a Minister of Finance. Well-managed public finances are really an economic policy that encourages hard work, investment, education, risk-taking and innovation. It is about policies that generate entrepreneurship e which in turn hires and hires people, who can then both support themselves and contribute to everyone else. Well-managed public finances are therefore not about spending but about prioritising. It is about opting out of urgent efforts for something that is even more important in the long term. It is a matter of understanding that every dollar for public consumption is a crown that cannot be invested in a new company. It is the critical look that is the most important feature of a finance minister and the most difficult job. That is why I am concerned that expenditure is running out when there is no cost control. If it worries the government, it can't be seen. On the contrary, the government's response is increased unemployment, and it removes the time limit in health insurance, which – listens and is amazed – is a measure against increased sick leave. It is just as likely that a reduced RUT deduction will result in more legal cleaning companies and reduced undeclared work. Mr President, I would like to During the eight years of the Alliance, of course, we had successes, and we had setbacks. Nobody does everything right. But we successfully fought the broad old exclusion by making it more profitable to work, by doing black jobs white and by tightening different benefit systems. You are now doing exactly the opposite, Magdalena Andersson. You are doing what you should not do and not doing what you really should do today. You are now creating a new alienation.
i-bdc0d92ac2b8b3fb-138	Mr President, I would like to It will be a bit funny to listen to Ulf Kristersson when he tries to preach well-managed public finances. I would like to remind Ulf Kristersson that the budget deficit during his four years in the government increased between 2010 and 2011. Between 2011 and 2012, it increased even more, as well as between 2012 and 2013. It then increased again between 2013 and 2014. Every year Ulf Kristersson sat in the government increased public finance deficits. But not only did Ulf Kristersson leave huge holes in public finances, but he also left running costs in the insurance systems he himself was responsible for. The systems Ulf Kristersson now talks about, health insurance and assistance compensation, increased even faster than today during the years Ulf Kristersson was responsible for them. The fact that he is now beginning to talk about cost control is perhaps a change from the Moderates, and it is a very welcome one. The government will shortly present measures to address health insurance. In the budget, we have measures to address the development of the cost of assistance payments. We are introducing a new form of housing for unaccompanied refugee children in order to reduce costs in this area. We are also abolishing a series of ineffective measures, such as establishment slots and the gender equality bonus. This also applies to the extremely expensive and extremely inefficient employer's contribution for young people. In a number of areas, the government is cleaning up after the chaos the previous government left behind. Otherwise, there's not much innovation over the Moderates. You'd take a big interest in your politics. You laid your forehead in deep folds; now you would renew yourself. In Almedalen, you were finally going to present the new policy, where you were going to take a move – and then you presented a sixth job tax deduction, but with a different name. Now you're talking about the deepening alienation, Ulf Kristersson. If your policy has created deeper exclusion, how can the same policy turn it around? Will it not simply lead to further deepening?
i-bdc0d92ac2b8b3fb-143	Mr President, I would like to I think the Minister for Finance is astoundingly historyless. Firstly, the deficits generated during the recession and financial crisis were extremely well justified. I do not know any qualified economist who thinks that Sweden should not have used the strength that existed in the economy to also stimulate the economy when that opportunity existed. If you had thought it was wrong, you would reasonably have had a different policy yourself, but on the contrary, all but two of you submitted draft budgets that had a bigger deficit. Coming now and pretending that this wasn't planned is not serious. Secondly, I think that, with my permission, the lack of history, even in terms of prudence, at the beginning of the line, is unprecedented. The reason for caution with dynamic effects is that income should not be overestimated to the Treasury. For the same reason, you should be careful and not overestimate the income you get when raising taxes on what you know affects people's willingness to work. You think it's only one way, but it's the other way around. If you want to be serious in politics, you must of course be careful when calculating the state's income and not wishing that what I am doing is having only good effects and no negative ones. Thirdly, the overall picture of Swedish sick leave fell throughout our time until 2014. We took over an unhealthy number that was in catastrophic condition. We carried out important reforms. We fought you for every reform, every single moment, but we did it anyway. We probably did too little, and we have put forward new proposals that will further do something about increasing ill-health. You're doing absolutely nothing.
i-bdc0d92ac2b8b3fb-147	Mr President, I would like to The use of the large surplus inherited from the Social Democratic Government during the financial crisis itself has never been criticised; it was not wrong. What was wrong from the former bourgeois government was that it continued to reduce the tax by borrowed money even when the economic cycle had reversed. That is why we had a large deficit and also a very large structural deficit when we took over public finances. We were 75 billion out of the fiscal framework. In terms of presenting dynamic effects, the former bourgeois government's reduction in unemployment insurance led to an increase in social security contributions, but I do not think that was reported at that time. There you did just like us, namely using the Ministry of Finance's calculation conventions and did not account for the dynamic effect. The question remains: if your policy has created deeper exclusion, how can more of the same policy break exactly the deepening alienation that it has created?
i-bdc0d92ac2b8b3fb-150	Mr President, I would like to I have some understanding that the government must now at almost all costs make it appear that exclusion was a trifle that happened to solve itself. All of us who have been here for the past four or eight years know that you fought every reform that we carried out to break the broad exclusion. We are talking about 20 to 22 percent of the working-age population who lived entirely on social benefits. We got it down to 13% – not because you helped out and said: This is difficult, but we have to strike a sensible balance. You pretended that everything could be resolved without any reform at all. You were against everything we did. And now you have the nerve to say that we're the ones who created the alienation. What we are seeing today, when we do not have a broad exclusion anymore and ordinary adult people are not retired early from the labour market, are precisely the pockets that make it increasingly difficult in the modern economy for people without special skills to get a job. And you're doing absolutely nothing.
i-bdc0d92ac2b8b3fb-152	Mr President, I would like to Ulf Kristersson! I have noticed that Ulf Kristersson has recently started to worry about the running costs of migration. Although it sounds a little pushy and forced, it is of course a step in the right direction. We have also noted that moderate signals have been given that it is intended to reduce appropriations mainly in respect of Category 8 Migration. I fully understand if Mrs Kristersson does not want to tell you now in the debate exactly what the Moderates' budget motion will look like in a few weeks' time. However, if you intend to put a spending framework lower than that of the government and can include your alliance colleagues on this, I would like to make it clear that we Swedish democrats are prepared to vote in favour of such a reduction in expenditure. It is also entirely in accordance with the budgetary rules; expenditure may be reduced in accordance with the established framework. That's the way it is. I think you should take that opportunity and thus have an opportunity to bring us a little closer to maintaining the fiscal framework. Or will you continue to show total impotence when it comes to the whole of economic policy, that is, a lot of talk and no workshop?
i-bdc0d92ac2b8b3fb-155	Mr President, I would like to I'm sorry, but don't get me wrong! That is to say, I am absolutely convinced that the activities, systems, benefits and efforts we are doing on extremely good grounds – whether it be social security, assistance allowance, refugee reception – however important they may be, must always be examined and examined with a critical eye. A finance minister or one who is prepared to take on the task must also be a mean type who always questions every cost there is, otherwise there will be no room for new costs anywhere. So do not misunderstand my concern for increased migration costs! That doesn't mean I think we can change the way the world looks. It just means that I am convinced that every day we have to ask ourselves, ‘ Are we doing this the best way? Do we make it as effective as possible? Can it be made cheaper? Can we free up resources to something else that is also important? That's what I thought about social security. That's what I've been thinking about when it came to social services. That is how I think about the costs of migration. This is how I will think about all the items that exist in the Swedish state budget.
i-bdc0d92ac2b8b3fb-157	Mr President, I would like to Ulf Kristersson! The Swedish Democrats have since I entered the Riksdag wanted to increase the funding for the Swedish defence. We have also budgeted for this in every budget to show that we are serious. We have taken away our scope for reform to show that we are serious about the Swedish defence. Now I understand that three out of four alliance parties, including the Moderates, have announced that they want Sweden to apply for membership of NATO. NATO then demands that we invest 2% of GDP in defence costs. It's almost a doubling of today's defense costs. Will we then see in the Moderates' budget in a few weeks' time, the long-term budget of four years' time, that this is taken seriously or not? It remains to be seen. Maybe we'll get an answer today. I also note in today's media that the Alliance is working very hard on the Social Democratic and Environmental Party Government's budget. They even call it a social hazard, and I agree with that. But show it in real life! You have the D.E., the December Agreement, and it's obviously valid. You are responsible for all the tax increases that you carry out against companies and individuals in Sweden.
i-bdc0d92ac2b8b3fb-160	Mr President, I would like to I am sincerely pleased that there is an incredible curiosity about the Moderates' draft budget. That curiosity will be satisfied by 6 October at the latest.
i-bdc0d92ac2b8b3fb-161	Mr President, I would like to During their years in power, the Moderates have had almost a single recipe to solve all kinds of social problems, and these are tax cuts. The Moderates carried out five job tax deductions during their eight years of government. They would reduce unemployment, it was said. However, when Anders Borg resigned as Minister of Finance last autumn, unemployment was as high as when the Government of Reinfeldt took office. The only thing that had been achieved was large public deficits that Sweden still suffers from. In the election movement we got the impression that the Moderates had sobered up. Borg and Reinfeldt announced a tax drop, essentially because public finances did not tolerate more tax cuts. In substance, nothing has happened since then, and Sweden still has large structural deficits in public finances that need to be resolved with increased taxes. However, it did not take many months after the new leadership of the Moderates had taken office before they announced new unfunded tax cuts. In Almedalen this year, Anna Kinberg Batra launched a sixth job tax deduction, now easily disguised in a new name. Dear child has many names, and for you Moderates the job tax deduction seems to be the dearest child of all. I would like to ask Ulf Kristersson a question: How can the Moderates think that the most important thing for Sweden right now is a sixth tax credit, a tax-merger policy that we have tried and which we know does not work to reduce unemployment?
i-bdc0d92ac2b8b3fb-166	Mr President, I would like to That's not true. It is not true that the employment tax deduction has not increased the number of employed persons in Sweden. It's not even a matter of liking. I say like Rosling, I'm right and you're wrong. Those are facts. And that's no wonder. If you have extremely high marginal tax rates for all people, if you have a high tax burden also on fairly low incomes and medium incomes, then it has negative consequences. It's no wonder. You can think differently. You might think it doesn't matter. That is a perfectly legitimate position. You can increase the marginal tax to 60%. You can raise it to 80 percent if you want. It is a legitimate position, but I do not share it. The fact that there is a link between how we tax work and how many jobs there are in the economy and how many people think it is worth taking these jobs and working a little more is quite obvious. Your obsession with our treasures is fascinating. The State budget consists of two sides. One is tax revenue, and the other is different expenditure items. What else are we gonna talk about? These are the two issues. What taxes do we collect, more or less good taxes, more or less distortive effects, more or less appropriate? What expenditure are we going to spend on the tax money? That is what the whole budget is all about. The fact that we spend quite a lot of effort on half of this budget, that is, which taxes are least harmful to the economy, is not so infuriated. If you think it is only bad that we have reduced taxation on ordinary honest white work, then be so good and raise back to the 1981 level! Then, as far as I understand, the taxes were highest in Sweden ever. It works too – not so good, but it works.
i-bdc0d92ac2b8b3fb-173	Mr President, I would like to I note that the answer is missing. Let's see what happens with the sixth job tax deduction. It is well documented in research and public studies that job tax deductions are not self-financing. If they create jobs, they don't create more jobs than they cost, so the question remains. Large structural deficits in Sweden, which are not due to the economic situation, can be solved only through cuts in welfare or through tax increases. As Ulf Kristersson says, we are talking taxes. But we are no more obsessed with your tax proposals than you are with ours. The question remains: What cuts do the Moderates want to make, or what taxes do they intend to raise?
i-bdc0d92ac2b8b3fb-178	Mr President, I would like to Let us be careful to say that what the job tax deductions did not solve was the tax burden on the very lowest incomes. It's important. We believe that there is a great deal of room for people who take their very first job, who are not well paid, to enter the labour market and then be able to move on to their second job. This must be done in combination with the adjustment of, for example, the supply support so that it will always pay off to work another hour. This is not a small problem in Sweden. Some believe that the supply aid is high, but of course it is not. However, it can be so high that those who work only a few hours, who get a part-time job, a short-term job, have 100% marginal tax. Every penny you earn is a crown you lose if you work. It's a really bad policy. It is even worse than 80% marginal tax. That is why we want to reduce the tax burden on low incomes in Sweden.
i-bdc0d92ac2b8b3fb-182	Mr President, I would like to Sweden has major problems with high household indebtedness. The lack of housing and the reduction of interest are usually highlighted as the main reasons for this. The interest rebates are a State subsidy on private debt and are also entirely wrong from a distribution point of view. The richest tenth of households receive 20 times more of the subsidies than the economically weakest tenth. Swedish Television's review shows that 85 per cent of the approximately 30 billion interest rebates cost goes to the richer half of households. The economically weaker half receive only 15%. The investigators of the Statistical Office find that no other tax or reform has the same effect in redistributing from economically weak to economically strong. You Moderates often talk about the increasing costs of sick leave and migration but never mention the interest rebates – although they represent around 30 billion of the state budget, which corresponds to the salaries of about 60 000 teachers or 75 000 nurses. In addition, costs are expected to rise to around 40 billion in the near future. Sweden is one of the world's most indebted countries. Since 2007, we have outclassed the rest of the Western world and are only lagging behind China and Singapore in debt growth. The Financial Stability Council has highlighted the direct effects of taxes on indebtedness, including interest rebates, as well as the abolition of property tax, property tax and inheritance and gift tax, as well as the permanentisation of ROT, as the main reasons for increasing housing prices and thus household indebtedness. The policy that the Moderates have been involved in has thus contributed greatly to the indebtedness that we see among households. Ulf Kristersson! Do you agree that your policy has contributed to household indebtedness? Why don't you ever talk about the interest rebates?
i-bdc0d92ac2b8b3fb-189	Mr President, I would like to On this I have a point of principle and a practical one. The principle is that a country with long-term high taxation, not least at work, has also had to have many deductions. This is an historic consequence of the fact that we have had very high taxation for many years. Had the left side of politics ever tried to reduce the overall tax burden in Sweden in order to make it easier and reduce deductions, perhaps above all trying to reduce taxation on labour, one would not say: We intend to protect every thing that is like today. But you are always only looking for what in practice increases the tax burden a little bit. That is my objection in principle. The practical thing is that we have done quite a lot of things with regard to household indebtedness, mainly linked to the housing market. The latest, which has not even entered into force yet, is that we give Finansinspektionen muscles to design and enforce some kind of amortisation requirement. I think that one should be a little careful to go after new instruments before you know what the consequences are for those we have started or implemented. It can have a very bad overall impact on households' disposable income if one is not cautious in that situation.
i-bdc0d92ac2b8b3fb-193	Mr President, I would like to My objection in principle is that the Moderates refuse to take responsibility. You have pursued a policy that has put us in this situation. Your policy has contributed to the rise in house prices and thus household indebtedness. You have abolished property tax and property tax, but you have not touched on the deduction of interest. So you have touched one part but not the other, and there have been consequences. I think, Ulf Kristersson, that it is precisely because they are so distributively wrong, from our perspective, that you choose not to touch them. You simply want a policy that benefits those with the best income while those with the least income have to pay for it. The interest rebates are a huge item in the state budget that you never talk about. During your government time, we offered you a broad political agreement. We proposed reducing interest rates by 1% per year, as has been done in Denmark. This would give the state 4 - 5 billion in just a few years so that we could employ, for example, 10,000 more teachers. Well, I suppose you'd use them to lower taxes. But it would definitely have been good for financial stability.
i-bdc0d92ac2b8b3fb-196	Mr President, I would like to In that case, this criticism must be directed just as much at the government, or at least at the Social Democrats, who, as far as I understand, share my view that there is no point in changing the interest rebates. You are doing a strange analysis of the Swedish housing problem, Ulla Andersson. You are largely alone in believing that the dominant problem would be just that. The vast majority of people I meet or read something about or would say that it is a combination of far too low mobility in the Swedish housing stock and far too little construction, which is linked to far too much building regulations and too high building costs in Sweden. This has created the fundamental problem of a far too large housing shortage in Sweden, and this is not solved by changing the interest rate reduction.
i-bdc0d92ac2b8b3fb-200	Mr President, I would like to Having high ambitions is basically both good and praiseworthy. Even better, of course, if the goals you set are reasonably realistic. As you know, the government has stated that Sweden will have the EU's lowest unemployment rate by 2020. The forecasts drawn up by the Ministry of Finance itself, which adequately only extend until 2019, argue that this objective will not be achieved. At the same time, a series of reforms are being implemented that have a common impact on employment and jobs. The RUT and ROT deductions are being reduced, a reform which is essentially entirely self-financing because black jobs have gone white. But according to the government, the RUT jobs are clearly the wrong kind of job and not good enough. That is not how a serious workers' party acts. In the run-up to the elections, we received a promise from the then Finance Minister that the petrol tax would not be increased. However, the result was not just one but two increases. In addition to making life's puzzle more difficult for those who depend on the car and make commuters more expensive for those who cannot travel by metro to work, the increase in diesel tax also means a very severe blow to both agriculture and forestry and, not least, to those dairy farmers who today demonstrate outside Parliament's premises. It affects employment in rural areas, and it will – at least as seriously – lead to a lower level of self-sufficiency for food. A penalty tax is imposed on older people over the age of 65 who choose to remain in the labour market for a few more years. This is a total misconception, when consistent reports claim that we need to work more than less if we are to maintain the financial sustainability of our pension system. If you remove the carrot and incentives for those who want to work voluntarily to some extent even after the regular retirement age, unfortunately, only the whip remains. At least the logic of this is beyond my understanding. This is done at the same time as removing the possibility for individuals to save for their own pension. That's twice as wrong. Mr President, I would like to I have learned that there is a small island in the Caribbean called Aruba. It's probably really nice there – I haven't been there – but what makes this little island special in the Swedish context when it comes to our budget debate is that it's the only country that has a higher marginal tax than Sweden. The fact that little Aruba in the Caribbean is leading this not too honorable competition is clearly not good enough, according to the government, which proposes an increase in marginal tax rates, by stepping down the job tax deduction. The starting point is that those who have a decent income can also afford to pay the world's highest marginal tax. However, basic economic foundations are missing. H og earners have an alarming tendency to move and work abroad, where the tax is lower. You can also exchange your salary for a pension with significantly more favourable tax conditions or simply choose to work a little less, as you consider it not worthwhile. The research available in this area shows that a reduction in marginal tax, given the behavioural effects that arise, would in principle be self-financing. The reverse logic also applies, of course. Increased marginal taxes will not add to the government's expectations, simply because of the behavioural effects that arise. The corresponding mechanisms also apply, of course, to the first so-called stratum limit, where the government now proposes that more should pay government tax and that this should be done in the case of lower income. There is a worrying tendency to overestimate its revenue while underestimating its expenditure, not least in areas 8 and 13, migration and integration and gender equality respectively. All in all, and in the long run, this poses a threat to confidence in Swedish public finances. And other things were not to be expected when the extreme left has a disproportionate influence over the budgetary process. Let us note that Sweden suffers from chronically high equilibrium unemployment. So it is not good enough to blame us for going through a tough business cycle. The unemployment rate was high before the recession, it was high during the recession and it was high after the recession. Nevertheless, let us – despite a massively high level of equilibrium unemployment, despite a marked increase in labour market mismatches, despite the majority of reforms that have in common a significant negative impact on employment and despite the fact that the Ministry of Finance's own forecasts testify to the impossibility of the government's employment target – assume that, despite all this, the government is actually able to push down unemployment as promised. Let's make that hypothesis. Then there is still one question. During this budgetary period, i.e. until 2019, 330 000 non-European asylum and family migrants will come to Sweden – 330 000. A large majority of these have a level of education that does not meet the requirements of the Swedish labour market. Add to that that virtually no one has any language skills in Swedish. We will hear such things as faster validation of higher education to solve this. It is of course positive for the extremely small minority who have a higher education, but it does not help at all the large mass that at best has a rudimentary schooling. And from the second camp we talk loudly and happily about reduced thresholds to the labour market, which ultimately means one thing: lower wages. You want to back into the future. No, Mr President, the government has failed even before it has even started. And in a normal country and at a normal time, it had not had the chance at all. Of course, with the support of only one in three Swedes, one should not even try to establish a government. I would like once again to call on the Alliance to do what they should have done from the outset, if they are serious about the fact that it was a socially dangerous budget that was read out this morning: put the head of government with the minister at the disposal of the labour market, and let us hold a new election! But that would unfortunately be a naive hope on my part, because one cannot risk that the Swedish Democrats will be the biggest party in an election. Mr President, I would like to During the past parliamentary year, the Swedish Democrats have continued to broaden and deepen politics. We've been talking about the situation of the children and the parents of young children. We have talked about how we can reverse the negative trend in school and how the teaching profession can regain its former status. In fact, until the 1960s, a trained lecturer served as much as a Member of Parliament – as we did. We have presented a powerful package to strengthen the Swedish industry and its competitiveness, to turn the trend of outsourcing into reshoring, that is, to get returning industrial companies in Sweden, and to strengthen Swedish exports. We're gonna have real jobs, not fake jobs. This and many other things, Mr President, will be concrete in our forthcoming budget motion. As I said, we are laying the foundations for real jobs instead of subsidised fake jobs that have only one purpose: to hide unemployment statistics.
i-bdc0d92ac2b8b3fb-223	Mr President, I would like to Often it is only when the Center Party enters the debate that you start talking about Swedish countryside and its challenges. Now Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström first – I must congratulate him on that. There will be more of that product later in the debate. On this particular subject, however, I would like to question the credibility of the Swedish democrats. We know that, fortunately, the Center Party is the party that has skyrocketed confidence in precisely rural and agricultural issues. There are measurements of this – that's it. But we see people in the rural movement who actually put their hope in the Swedish Democrats, who listen to the beautiful words and believe that there is power behind them. That's the core of populism. You're for everything that's good and against everything that's bad. But the populist is also notoriously poor at delivering when it's time. As far as the milk crisis is concerned, we have had a thousand dairy farmers out in Mint Square today. There is a need for the right things in the forthcoming budgets. The right things are needed in the short and long term, but things are also needed here and now, reforms that produce results before the end of the year, things that can be implemented immediately. The Centre Party presented a number of such proposals, things that could be done and that will produce results tomorrow, if we wish. Some of those things were about things that we have to push at European level. We had proposals on this in the EU Council and tried to build a majority around it. The Moderates and Christian Democrats voted in favour. The government parties voted against. The Swedish Democrats have two seats. One representative was not there, and the other said nothing, did not make any counter-proposals, nothing, silence. Here we had the opportunity to put strength behind the words, to follow when we make good suggestions. But when you really had the chance, a representative wasn't even there and one sat quietly. There's the populists. They speak big but deliver nothing.
i-bdc0d92ac2b8b3fb-230	Mr President, I would like to Here's the thing. I was not at that meeting of the European Council, but it was probably the case that if the Swedish democrats had nothing to recall, perhaps they agreed with your proposal. I have not seen the proposals in person and cannot judge them. Please present the proposals in the Riksdag, and we will have to look at them again! I can promise you: If they are good and we make the assessment that they will have a positive impact on Swedish dairy farmers and other farmers, then we will support them. If you dare to put them forward, with a majority of the alliance parties behind you, and we make the assessment that it is good for Swedish dairy farmers, then I can promise you on the stand that we will support them. But we will make a fair assessment. If you make a proposal for an individual meeting and ask Members sitting at this meeting to make an immediate assessment of whether the proposal is good or not, it is not – you understand – as simple as that. But I can promise you: If it is positive for Swedish dairy farmers, we will support it. Dare to present the proposal as a whole in the Alliance, and you will get a yes in the Swedish parliament if it is good for Swedish dairy farmers.
i-bdc0d92ac2b8b3fb-233	Mr President, I would like to I'm a little confused about the answer. It is not that we are putting forward our proposals for a meeting, at the sitting table. It was in the light of a very severe and deep milk crisis – an effect of economic warfare between the European Union and Putin's Russia – that the Center Party presented a number of proposals that would make a difference here and now. Some things we can make decisions on at government level, some things require government decisions, and some things we need to push through in Europe. This was presented. There were press conferences and clippings. All those interested in the questions noted this. That was a big discussion. The proposals are presented in the Swedish Parliament's EU Board. That is where we shall build a majority and say: This is Sweden's vote in Brussels. The Center Party, the Moderates and the Christian Democrats voted in favour. Now that the Swedish Democrats had the chance – you had the chance – you did not take it. A Swedish democrat didn't even go to the meeting. The agenda will be sent out before. We know what to talk about. And a Swedish democrat sitting there says nothing, makes no proposals of his own, does nothing. When it was time to deliver, nothing came.
i-bdc0d92ac2b8b3fb-237	Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, I need to repeat myself. I was not at that EU Council meeting and cannot judge whether what Emil Källström says is true or not, although I must of course believe your word. But you can be completely convinced of our support, Emil Källström, if you put forward such a proposal here in the Swedish Parliament – because it is through what we decide here that we can influence from the Swedish Parliament, and otherwise, just as you say, decisions are made down in the EU. If you put forward sharp proposals in the Swedish Parliament that will be positive for Swedish dairy farmers, you will get the Swedish Democrats behind you. If you dare to do so as a common alliance, then do it! If there is not just air in your words, put it forward as a sharp proposal, you will have our support for Swedish dairy farmers and other farmers.
i-bdc0d92ac2b8b3fb-239	Mr President, I would like to You Swedish democrats chose to table proposals for a reduction in pensioner's tax, an increase in unemployment benefit and an increase in maintenance allowance a year ago. Then you put forward your own budget, which you did not vote for as such, in which you withdrew 34 billion from welfare, i.e. from health care, school and care. It was a saving that would hit old people, children, employees and us women very hard. For Gävle, it represents 340 million, almost a third of the budget for elderly and disabled care. That is equivalent to the salaries of 800 nurses. You didn't say anything about that before the election. Another issue on which you went to elections and where you have then changed are gains in welfare. Jimmie Åkesson himself has said: We went to elections that we want a limitation of profit withdrawals in welfare. Last week on your website it was possible to read that a transfer of tax money intended for school education to dividends is unacceptable. But when the venture capitalists, who make every effort to defend their profits, started courting you, then it became more important to run their errands and make sure they get their profits, rather than making sure that the money goes to grandma's care or the students' education. The venture capitalists were simply more important than the children and grandmother. You sold them for the venture capitalists. What's Grandma worth in comparison to a good dinner and some good drinks to drink to? Now your policy is being shaped directly by the big companies that profit billions from welfare. They themselves say that their main goal with the meetings with you in the Swedish Democrats is to continue to pick money from school, health care and care, and you have happily sat on their laps. You sold your grandmother. You sold the kids. The Swedish Democrats are for sale – it's sale every day. What's next day? Is it lower entry wages? Is that labour law? How many dinners will that take?
i-Uoxj9c54kqtLEJaT9ChvwF	Mr President, I would like to If it were the case that the Left Party and Ulla Andersson really protected the increase in unemployment, more money for welfare and reduced taxes for pensioners, Ulla Andersson and the Left Party would of course have voted for the Swedish Democrats' budget motion in the first place in the last autumn's vote, because it produced much better results in all these areas. The fact that we did not choose to support this government's policy was for the simple reason that, even then, we felt that the government's budget was a disaster for Sweden, just as we now think – that is, the whole. With regard to the famous articles in Dagens Industri, I would like to say once again: go back and look at what our representatives are saying! I don't know what it's like in the Left Party. But with us it is our representatives who are involved in shaping our policy, for example on our country days this autumn or at the election conference that we held in March 2014. Look at what was said there precisely when it comes to profits in welfare, private versus public direction and so on! There, the ombudsmen set out our policy, the policy on which we then went to elections and which we have then conducted after the elections. It is the opinion of our elected representatives, which is the basis for our positions, not any dinners together with some stakeholder organisations – it is not, it is wrong. It can each one control by going back. Those of you who are now watching this debate on television can go back and look at what we said at our election conference in March 2014 and what decisions we made there. Read that text and judge it against what Ulla Andersson has just said in this House! Politics is about trust. Then judge who you trust!
i-bdc0d92ac2b8b3fb-248	Mr President, I would like to Then I interpret it so that Jimmie Åkesson lies when he says: We went to elections that we want to have limits on profit withdrawals in welfare. Should I interpret it so that your school policy program – which was updated just before the elections and was still on your website last week – is lying? It says that you want to limit the transfer of money to dividends at school. You are therefore lying yourself, both your party leader and on your website. You had changed politics even before that – not at all as it has appeared in the media. So you sold yourselves to run the venture capitalists' errands. That's what you've done. You sat there, at fine, good dinners, and thought well that Grandma's care or schoolchildren's education was not worth anything, as long as you had to grease the clutter with the capital. So little was your constituents worth that you could directly deceive them. You could fool them. What are your words worth? Is it a cheap dinner? Maybe it's not that cheap because I'm sure you got an appetizer, a main course and dessert. But Grandma's not worth much more than that.
i-bdc0d92ac2b8b3fb-251	Mr President, I would like to Once again, I urge Ulla Andersson to read what was said in March. You can also counter what has been said later. One can of course, like Ulla Andersson, be totally opposed to private alternatives in welfare. It's not us. One can also be too private alternatives in welfare while at the same time wanting limitations in profit withdrawal. We have not backed away from that either. So it is important to look at what we have said. Even now, we are not in favour of these companies taking out the entire profit draw, but we are still in favour of restrictions. That is exactly what we said in March, and that is exactly the policy that we still have. We therefore believe that requirements should be made, better control and better follow-up. Profit should be made in profit-making companies, otherwise there is no point in having a company. Then there are no incentives. Once again, Ulla Andersson : J applies to what was said in March with what has been said by our party leaders, for example!
i-bdc0d92ac2b8b3fb-253	Mr President, I would like to When a three - year - old died in the Mediterranean, more people realized what the refugee disaster is now going on. Many Swedes and many people in other European countries stood up and showed solidarity. For once it was quiet a few days from the Swedish Democrats. They didn't say anything. Then it took a week. Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström's party partner Björn Söder appeared in Dagens Nyheter. His comment was that it is right for Hungary to build barbed wire fences and that it is right to shoot tear gas at Syrian war refugees. This is in Dagens Nyheter, Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström. You can claim that even that newspaper is lying. You always do that when you don't like quotes of what you've said. To begin with, I would like to ask Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström the following: Do you share the picture that Björn Söder brings forward? When you press the Swedish Democrats, you always get the answer: not everyone should be sent back. I'm gonna let some people stay. Can Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström at some point tell us what your idea of integration is? There are people in Sweden who are outside. There are refugees coming here now. Either your answer is that everyone should be sent back to war Syria, or you can at some point start to take responsibility and think about how to ensure that the fugitive comes to work and learn Swedish. Then the answer is not what you have repeatedly given in this Parliament, i.e. that you should not invest in integration policies and that you should make it more expensive to hire people from other countries. You question lowering the threshold into the Swedish labour market. Taking responsibility is actually about the people who currently live in Sweden. I have two specific questions. Do you share Björn Söder's assessment that it is right to build barbed wire fences and shoot tear gas at Syrian refugees? And can you say a few words if you have any idea how people fleeing to our country will learn Swedish and get jobs?
i-bdc0d92ac2b8b3fb-259	Mr President, I would like to According to Eurostat, about one in five refugees who come to Europe from Syria is one in five. Many of the others come from other countries. Many of these countries are fleeing, not for political reasons, because of wars and the like, but for other reasons. Within the framework of EU cooperation, we have the Schengen Agreement and the Dublin Regulation which regulate how we should look at people who come to Europe. So we have an external border, and we have internal borders. Some countries live up to these agreements, such as Hungary. Denmark has done so at times. Many other countries do, too. I can agree that, in my opinion, Hungary sometimes oversteps the line in a distasteful way. But they live up to the commitments that we have jointly agreed, while other countries like Germany, Austria, Sweden and sometimes Denmark do a little bit of what they want when it suits or doesn't fit. We can't have that. That is why we now see that the Finnish Minister for the Interior wants to reintroduce border controls against Sweden because we do not live up to the commitments we have within the framework of EU cooperation. Once again, on the question of integration, there is a problem with Erik Ullenhag and the People's Party. You cannot raise this issue without talking about volumes. If, as I stated earlier in my speech, we get about 330 000 more over the next four-year period to be integrated into Swedish society, it is a completely impossible equation. You can't do that. The whole system is falling apart. If you're going to get people into work and employment...
i-bdc0d92ac2b8b3fb-265	Mr President, I would like to Now you had the chance, Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström, to say something about how the one who comes here can get a job and learn Swedish. But you came back to the fact that there are too many coming every time, no matter how many coming. Then there is a doubleness in the Swedish Democrats which is a bit interesting. Now Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström says that only 20 percent are fleeing Syria and pretending that you want them to stay. It is understood that you are pretending that those who flee Syria will be allowed to stay. Then the budget burst immediately. When I last looked at it, it became clear that you are saying that refugee immigration should be reduced by 90%. If 20 percent is going to stay, you're gone, aren't you? I can tell you about some of the others coming here. It is about those who are homosexuals and come from Angola or Uganda, that is, people who come from countries in Africa where you can get the death penalty because you love someone of the same sex. Apparently, these people are going out. Is this what you're trying to say? You can have refugee reasons even if you do not come from Syria, Sven-Olof-Olof Sällström. It's good that you seem to distance yourself from Björn Söder. But the question remains: Do you have any idea how people should learn Swedish and get into work?
i-bdc0d92ac2b8b3fb-269	Mr President, I would like to I thank Erik Ullenhag for the unanswered question. In the budget last year – we have no reason to believe that it will look different this year – we added, with the volumes that they intended to receive in Sweden, more money per individual on, for example, Swedish education via SFI than the People's Party or the Government did. That is part of the answer to the question. The refugee situation that we have right now is largely due to the fact that the international community has not gone forward and supported the UNHCR, which is desperately screaming for EUR 4 billion, just under SEK 40 billion, right now. That is precisely why many people have now left refugee camps to go to Europe or elsewhere, that is because they do not receive healthcare, food, schooling and security. Because the EU system has no money left.
i-bdc0d92ac2b8b3fb-272	Mr President, I would like to What we have seen in the world this late summer gives rise to fear, but most of all it gives hope. We have heard so many outstanding stories from all over Europe. Someone has handed out water bottles, another has offered to sleep and a third has taken off his warm jacket to give it to a refugee who needed it better. It is human acts that inspire hope. Humanity, humanity and respect for human rights should be the basis for dealing with those who flee for their lives. It is a right that everyone has, to seek asylum and to be protected when they need it. That is the strongest reason and really the only reason why we should have a generous refugee policy and an open Europe. The Green Party has always defended this. Today, I would also like to mention another reason for saying: 'Refuges welcome'! Welcome, refugees! It is that Sweden is getting better by it. Our country is getting stronger with openness. There'll be more people working. Without those born abroad, employers would have a shortage of staff. One quarter of all health care providers and personal assistants were born abroad. Companies are getting stronger. Employees from other countries provide knowledge about foreign markets, contacts and networks. It benefits foreign trade, and businesses grow faster. The population is getting younger. Many of the persons born in Sweden will retire within 20 years. Yet employment will increase, thanks to those born abroad. Mr President, I would like to Although Sweden can count home what we invest in providing shelter for people on the run, we should not deny that this presents challenges. Most people who come here want nothing more than to contribute to society. But it's not easy, if you don't have a home or a job or if the school doesn't work– if you just don't get the chance. Many are concerned about all the new things. We'll show respect for that. But we have done it in the past, when the war in the Balkans raged, when the dictatorships in Latin America drove people on the run and when there was war on our own continent. We did it then, and we can do it again. Jobs and education are the most important things to be able to establish yourself in a new country. Therefore, the government is now investing for a faster establishment in the labour market. We are strengthening the validation of foreign education, for example for healthcare professions, where we know that we have a major shortage. The government creates a fast track into the labour market for those who have experience that is in demand in Sweden. The organisations will receive increased support in their important work as refugee guides and against discrimination. Over half of the country's municipalities have a housing shortage. For those who have recently arrived in Sweden and for the young, the situation is particularly difficult. Therefore, the government is also investing heavily in more rental apartments. This is suitable for many who have not yet got a foothold in the labour market: young people, students and new arrivals. Mr President, I would like to Europe now receives many refugees from war and terror. In Japan, however, more than 100,000 people were recently evacuated due to flooding. In southern and central China 65 000 people fled last spring. And in December, over 100,000 people fled in northern Malaysia. Humanitarian disasters in the wake of climate change give us a premonition of what we can expect in the future. Global warming must be stopped. In this work, Sweden is once again taking a leading role. In December, the UN Climate Change Meeting will be held in Paris. The government's goal is that it will lead to a fair and binding climate agreement that keeps global warming below two degrees. The autumn budget also includes a major investment in international climate action and aid. Here in Sweden we also notice the effects of climate change. Skyfall and heat waves are becoming more common. Therefore, the government also invests in municipalities' efforts to build e.g. dikes and runoff systems for elevated water levels. Sweden must take climate responsibility at home. We will steer away from fossil energy through increased energy tax and invest in renewables such as solar energy and electric vehicles. Sweden will become one of the world's first fossil-free welfare countries. The government is now investing for Sweden. Investment is what is needed after many years of tax cuts. Just as the Green Party promised in the run-up to the elections, the budget focuses on jobs, schools and the climate. It costs money but also gives money back when jobs grow. It creates a warmer society where we can of course say: Welcome, refugees!
i-bdc0d92ac2b8b3fb-286	Mr President, I would like to Two years ago, the state received 73 million in dividends from SJ. It doesn't matter what year you charge dividends from SJ. It always coincides with some kind of delay or equivalent. And so did it that time. If I am not mistaken, it was Gustav Fridolin who said that the 73 million was a punch in the stomach of all those who have stood and huddled on the platform- ish. I don't know if it was verbatim, but that's what he said. Now the government is charging 1.7 billion in dividends from SJ – ish. And we don't hear anything from the Green Party. I am not going to talk much about the subject matter, but I am going to reflect more on the fact that opposition is easy to be for everything that is good and against everything that is bad. This also applies to the party that Janine Alm Ericson represents. Now we hear nothing. It was just speeches in opposition. It was just talk. Once you come in and sit with responsibility, you silence, and the confidence figures follow. What I'm most upset about is not saying one thing in opposition and doing another in government. The most serious thing is that the Green Party has failed the principle that we agreed on, green tax exchange. The aim is to increase the tax on environmentally harmful activities in order to use that space to reduce the tax on jobs and entrepreneurship. The environmental party's small tax increases on environmental pollution are overshadowed several times by increased taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship. There was a red tax increase and no green tax change. Why does the Green Party agree to such a policy?
i-bdc0d92ac2b8b3fb-291	Mr President, I would like to I want to thank Emil Källström. In the coming years, this government spends a total of 61⁄2 billion on rail investments for better rail traffic. The dividend that comes now comes from the travellers and what they have paid for their travels. We will do great things to make traffic better, so that it will come back to those who have paid. This is also a clear example of SJ's need for another assignment. Instead, SJ needs a community mission, so that we can see how we get better traffic across the country that meets the needs of the population and can help in the climate change that is extremely important. Emil Källström talks about green tax exchange. It is absolutely true that we like green tax exchange. The Center Party also likes green tax exchange. We have now significantly increased energy taxes to meet the climate challenge. At the same time, we are spending a lot of money on renewables in this transition so that we can move forward. The Center Party did almost nothing to raise environmental taxes during its time in power in the alliance government. The share of environmental taxes in the budget fell throughout the Center Party's time in the government. I would like to say that the increase in energy taxes that the Green Party is now making is a continuation of the green tax exchange that the Center Party made during its time in the government.
i-bdc0d92ac2b8b3fb-296	Mr President, I would like to If I were Janine Alm Ericson, I would not have commented either that the 73 million who were a blow to the stomach before they came to power now is 1.7 billion and in full order. It was a heat of opposition, and now, for the first time in the history of his party, he must take responsibility for politics. It can be painful sometimes. If I understood Janine Alm Ericson correctly, the main criticism is that the Center Party did not succeed well enough with green tax exchange. Then you put your name on a budget where 80% of tax increases are spent on jobs and entrepreneurship. Under 10% is spent on environmental taxes. You make the problem worse that you think you see. In addition, the Green Party has found new taxes on renewable energy production. Small-scale solar and wind production will now be burdened for the first time with new taxes. How can the Green Party agree to this?
i-bdc0d92ac2b8b3fb-299	Mr President, I would like to The new taxes on renewables are really nothing that the government has invented. It is the EU's budgetary rules that we have inherited from the period of alliance, which was then chosen not to mention. We raise the ceiling for the size of the facilities before you need to estimate. We make the rules clear so that a producer of solar electricity, for example, is not in danger of having tax setbacks in the future. The government is therefore very clear when it comes to investing in renewable energy. The money we are now spending on solar cells, for example, is an extremely strong investment in aid, the reduction of methane aid. There are also several other measures.
i-bdc0d92ac2b8b3fb-301	Mr President, I would like to It has been noted that the Social Democrats have deleted electoral promises on a continuous basis. There is less talk of the Green Party's electoral vows, but they are becoming quite many. Emil Källström raised dividend from SJ. Let us recall what Åsa Romson said about the discharge from the apiculture. That would certainly not happen when you went into government – Diakonia was promised that. They wanted to close Bromma airport and stop Bypass Stockholm. Right there, I'm pretty glad you haven't got your election promises through. Worse than that, you'll get tea through what you promised for school. Gustav Fridolin said that it would certainly not introduce municipal veto when it comes to free schools because it would stop village schools. Before the election movement, Gustav Fridolin said very proudly that the teacher's salary lift should apply to everyone, not just some. It then reads in the state budget that not everyone got a teacher's salary boost, if the money that is now being invested becomes a reality with regard to the contract movement. Most interesting was the debate article that Gustav Fridolin published before the election day when he wanted to become Minister of Education. He wrote: In a hundred days we will present comprehensive reforms to reverse the results in Swedish school. These days have now gone by far. Where are the major decisions and reforms? Well, Gustav Fridolin has appointed a school commission to come up with sharp proposals in 2017. My simple question to Janine Alm Ericson is: Do you regret that you did not negotiate and prepare yourselves before you sat in a position of government?
i-bdc0d92ac2b8b3fb-305	Mr President, I would like to The investments we make at the school are extensive. We're proposing more time for the primary school students. We are opening new training places for preschool teachers, primary school teachers and special educators – this in order to fill the classrooms with qualified and motivated teachers. There is also a substantial investment in the budget at leisure homes, which for several years has had a tough time. According to the Swedish National Agency for Education, 105,000 students were expelled from the Swedish school during the alliance years. This is not a good result for the party that held the Ministry of Education. The faculty got it harder during the time of the Alliance. Instead of reducing the administrative burden on teachers, they increased. One in four teachers quit for reasons other than retirement. Teachers' salaries continued to lag behind, and any demand for general efforts to increase teacher salaries was rejected. Now there will be a change, perhaps not as great as was hoped, but we have some left on this term of office, so we will come back with several initiatives. The policy of the Alliance led to increased gaps and greater exclusion. The government's policy does not follow. Instead, we want to bet so that each student has an honest chance to learn and develop. We have for several years been pointing to the importance of equality in Swedish schools, and now we are investing in a policy for an equal and equal school. I do not see how it could be negative or bad for Swedish school development.
i-bdc0d92ac2b8b3fb-310	Mr President, I would like to Yes, it was carried out in Swedish schools. It was an extensive reform of the Swedish school that the alliance government carried out. You are now pursuing some things, and that is good. I welcome the total shift from the Green Party in the perception of ratings. That's great. D et is also good with completed lines, Janine Alm Ericson. But the question did not concern it, but it was: Do you regret that you did not prepare yourself before you took up a position of government? I listed six or seven promises that you broke, and it was Åsa Romson and Gustav Fridolin who made these promises. Gustav Fridolin said that within a hundred days all reforms in Swedish school would be in place. I asked a question about that, and it was answered that it is now being done a little bit. It was quite a long time ago 100 days after election day, Janine Alm Ericson. Then she says that the vote on the budget was lost. But there are other things you can do. In addition, 83 days have passed since the new budget took effect. So the 100-day promise doesn't hold. I ask the question one more time, Janine Alm Ericson: Do you regret that you did not sit down with the Social Democrats and prepare before you went into government? Then you wouldn't have failed to deliver on promises.
i-bdc0d92ac2b8b3fb-314	Mr President, I would like to The Green Party is fully behind its electoral promises. Then the political reality – as Erik Ullenhag well knows – shows that it is not always possible to live up to implementing everything that you want to implement. We have now negotiated a very good budget for the school. I find it difficult to see how it could have been improved by another pre-election negotiation.
i-bdc0d92ac2b8b3fb-316	Mr President, I would like to We see people fleeing in and around hot spots and with us. Many people are extremely committed, and we shall be very happy and proud of that. We see, for example, the Red Cross making fantastic efforts at home and in place for fleeing, poor and persecuted. For vulnerable people in our country, NGOs are doing great work. Since 2012, there has been a tax reduction for donations to non-profit organizations that make relief efforts, and this has led to a sharp increase in giving. Then what do the government and the Green Party do? Prior to the elections, the Green Party said that it should have this tax reduction for more purposes. More organisations should be eligible for tax reduction. But the budget completely deletes it. The NGOs have been appealing to the government for a long time: do not increase the tax on donations to those in need! Hasn't Janine Alm Ericson heard in the first place? Red Cross, Save the Children and City Mission sees what everyone who has eyes open sees, namely that more give more as a result of the tax reduction. They are very clear on this point. In this House, Janine Alm Ericson has called everyone who gives to these organisations for tax planners, while the NGOs' calculations show that they will lose 250 million because of the Green Party's proposal. For 250 million, the City Mission would be able to accommodate all homeless people. 1 million poor people could have the opportunity to learn to read and write. Red K orset could feed 3 million people in a refugee camp in Syria for a month. At the same time, the government is urging to give to relief organisations. And at the same time as the government invites Volunteers to meetings, it increases the tax on gifts to people in need. That you're not ashamed!
i-bdc0d92ac2b8b3fb-322	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I want to correct Jakob Forssmed. For there is no tax on gifts, nor is it proposed to introduce such a tax. What currently exists from the time of the alliance government is a deduction for gifts. If I had mentioned the word tax planner, it would be in a negative sense. I don't think people give to plan their taxes. We can see this clearly now, that people give because they see that there is a need. They want to help and support where it is needed. I mentioned in my speech that it is incredibly gratifying to see that people spend both their time and their money. Very much of what comes into the wake of the refugee crisis goes to organisations that are not subject to the right to deduct. It's private engagement that's started and that's evolved into pretty big things. What is it that says that one association should be entitled to gifts with tax deductions and not the other? It will be a very strange assessment that must be made. Then I am the first to think that it is a fantastic job that these organisations are doing. It should certainly not be underestimated. The government is also doing a lot. It was mentioned how much food the money would supply in a refugee camp. The government is now increasing emergency aid to the world's poorest countries. We are also investing heavily in non-profit, international and humanitarian organisations where there is also a clear mission for integration efforts. To say that we would be ashamed of our policy for helping vulnerable people, there Jakob Forssmed is completely wrong out there.
i-bdc0d92ac2b8b3fb-327	Mr President, I would like to You want to remove the tax reduction for gifts. In practice, there will be a tax increase on donations to relief organisations. You say it's strange that one particular organization gets while another gets nothing. But you're happy to suggest free admission yourself to some state museums. Regional and private museums do not have a free entrance and thus have a competitive disadvantage. Not even all government museums get it. The state's maritime museums consist of three museums. Two of them get free admission and the third is not allowed. The police museum won't get free admission while the Army Museum gets it. The really strange thing is, of course, the priority that is being made. That is a very clear budget statement. The government increases the tax on gifts to the needy to pay for the visit of the latte fathers to the Army Museum. It is one of the environmental party's clear impressions in this budget. I think it's pretty pitiful.
i-bdc0d92ac2b8b3fb-329	Mr President, I would like to There are various things you can say about this budget. I think it is good that we are now introducing free admission to state museums. We need to increase it. We do not have control of – and cannot control – the private museums, although many of them, certainly the vast majority, do extremely good exhibitions and other interesting things. If we are going to talk about deviantism, I would like to make another point. Jakob Forssmed stands here and says that the removal of gifts is a disaster. I would therefore like to ask how the Christian Democrats, who have a Christian foundation of values with strong solidarity with other people, put together this policy of wanting to introduce temporary residence permits, which makes it more difficult for the families they claim to protect to establish themselves in Swedish society.
i-bdc0d92ac2b8b3fb-331	Mr President, I would like to When we come together for this debate, it is in a Swedish and European time of unrest. We see a capricious, aggressive and outward-looking Russia, war in the absolute vicinity of the European Union and a refugee disaster that requires a common European responsibility and a common European effort. At the same time, we see worrying tendencies that confidence in us in this House and faith in a positive future in Sweden is failing. In parallel, I would argue that Sweden needs more reform than it does in decades. Central areas of society must be fundamentally reformed. The labour market is not adapted to modern working life and creates both lock-in and foreclosure effects. It is not good either for those on the inside or for those who knock on the door in vain to get in. The housing market is in many parts of the country a chimare, because there is neither housing nor market. We see that we need to take strong action to allow our small and growing companies – Sweden's job creators – to maximise their potential. We must open up new ways of investing in infrastructure and continue to reduce taxes and simplify or remove the rules that hinder employment and expansion. If Sweden is to maintain its position as one of the most successful, prosperous and happy countries in the world, it is now and in the coming years that new thinking, courageous reforms and sometimes difficult decisions must be made. This new Swedish reform agenda will not be easy, but some things you have to do precisely because they are difficult. We must not back away from that challenge. Mr President, I would like to The subject of today's debate is the budget proposal put on the table by the Minister for Finance today. Unfortunately, I can see that the text-packed pages and the many tables do not respond to Sweden's challenges. Instead of pointing the way to the future, the government chooses to be part of the problem. Magdalena Andersson's second state budget – the first to appear to be a reality – makes it more expensive, more difficult and less free to live, operate, run companies, hire or for that matter perform charity in Sweden. Young people in the labour market have to pay with a sharp increase in employers' contributions. Our farmers will have to pay with a world-unique tax on manure and a tax at a distance per se, even if we do not know exactly when these taxes are prepared and implemented. Carpenters throughout the country have to pay with a reduced ROT deduction, and the money goes to the very worst, or at least to the worst, of the 20th century's socialist policy, building subsidies in the big cities. The fantastic development we have seen with new, often female, entrepreneurs in domestic services and in health and long-term care has completely halted due to deteriorations and general uncertainty as to what will apply. The list can be made much longer. Magdalena Andersson's politics, the politics of the socialist parties, means a huge transfer of resources from the job-creating sector to the public sector. That is very unfortunate. On 6 October, the deadline is for the presentation of counter-proposals to the Government's budget. I can already say that, on key points, the motion for a budget for the Center Party will be the direct opposite of the government budget. Mr President, I would like to There are some central points of departure for the Centre Party's economic policy. Firstly, the Center Party will not increase taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship. Instead, when the economy allows, we want to continue to reduce the cost of hiring, not least when a small company is hiring its first person. We want to make it easier and cheaper to invest in small and growing companies, and we want Sweden's start-ups to have the same opportunities to use employee options to recruit key skills as their competitors in Silicon Valley. This means that more companies are expanding and hiring. A positive side effect is that the base for tax revenues is broadened and revenue itself increases. Secondly, the Center Party does not betray the idea of green tax exchange. If you increase the tax on environmentally harmful activities and use the space to reduce the tax on jobs and entrepreneurship, it is good both for the environment and for job creation. This summer we presented a package of 4 billion in which we increased the tax on environmental damage and reduced the tax on jobs and entrepreneurship. It's a good start, but there's more coming in this area. Thirdly, the Center Party is not afraid of the structural reforms that Sweden so badly needs. The most obvious areas are a more modern and flexible labour market and a less regulated and more well-functioning housing market. These are reforms which are often cheap in the state budget but which cost all the more politically. We must not be afraid of that price tag if we know that we are doing the right thing in the long term. Mr President, I would like to The foundation of a successful economic policy is to rake the manage so that jobs grow. However, it is at least as important to keep the money tight and not let the costs slip away. There is an obvious risk that the government represented by Magdalena Andersson will be another one in the ranks of Social Democratic governments who are unable to keep the costs of sick leave down. Here several of the Alliance's parties have made good suggestions on how we can meet and reverse this challenge. It is clear that the costs of migration and integration must also be made more efficient. Reception and integration can become, must become, both better and cheaper. In the coming budgets of the Center Party, we will focus the searchlight on Sweden's large and expensive public sector. Our hundreds of authorities must not be sheltered workshops. Some things we do today can be made cheaper. Some things we do today we can stop doing completely. Here there is the possibility of decentralisation of government. Of course, the tasks financed by taxpayers' money must be carried out where they cost at least per hour or per square metre. In addition, we can have stronger labour market regions around the country. Mr President, I would like to Today, an estimated 1 000 dairy farmers have demonstrated outside the Riksdag. 1 000 entrepreneurs have had to take time off and go to Stockholm instead of developing their businesses. The basic problem is that Sweden and Europe's farmers are forced into a subsidy and regulatory economy where it is unfortunately more important what Europe's politicians say and what decisions Europe's politicians make than Europe's consumers think. The clear link between producer and consumer, which characterises every well-functioning market, is completely out of place here. Unfortunately, we have heavy political representatives, including those of the government parties, who seem to see this as a good example to follow. In the area by area, taxes are being increased and the regulatory burden increased while subsidies are being promised. The moment you put a dead hand over Gotland's lime industry, you send 100 million in grants to create jobs on the island. While introducing completely new taxes on renewable electricity generation, subsidies are being increased to the same extent. At the same time, construction companies that pay billions in increased employers' contributions will receive subsidies to build. Together, this means that the power of politicians and officials increases at the expense of everyone else. Together, it creates a more sluggish economy that ultimately means fewer jobs and less development. Instead, I mean let the resources stay with people and businesses so that we build society from below. The Government dutts with small subsidies and duseurs; it perfectly fertilizes with strategies, collaboration groups and policy documents. Instead, we are going to give people, companies and associations the basic right conditions and long-termness in the process so that they dare to invest in the new. Mr President, I would like to Now is the time to build Sweden strong. Now is the time to make the tough but necessary decisions for a more modern labour market and housing market. It is time to take a step in the green transition by investing heavily in green tax shifting, where environmental pollution becomes more expensive and jobs and entrepreneurship become cheaper. It is time to rake the manage, so that Sweden's job creators in the small and growing companies can fix the jobs needed for young people to get jobs and for yesterday's refugees to become tomorrow's social citizens. In this context, the government budget is an obstacle to overcome. But by 2018, these ideas of the Center Party and the Alliance will be translated into reality.
i-bdc0d92ac2b8b3fb-355	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by taking this opportunity to say that it was the increase in the ceiling for electricity certificates that I missed before. Sweden now has a government that not only talks about climate as a matter of destiny, but also shows momentum and implements reforms, a government that invests both locally and globally to reduce emissions, while at the same time increasing energy tax to create transition pressures and reduce emissions. The then alliance government gave a different priority. In its last budget proposal, SEK 350 million was allocated to environmental and climate measures. In the budget now presented by the government, SEK 4 1⁄2 billion goes to efforts to reduce our energy consumption and climate emissions in Sweden and the world. To this we can add an increase in the energy tax which will also help to reduce climate emissions. At the same time, I realise that it is not possible to blame only the Center Party for the lack of climate action by the Alliance Government. But what surprises me is that now that they are free to pursue any policy they want, the Center Party is actively arguing against the government's efforts for the climate and the environment. The Center Party says no to increased tax on nuclear energy, no to protecting Ojnareskogen, no to increased funding for protection of valuable nature, no to investment support Climate change, no to increased energy tax and no to taxes on fertilizers. I am not the only one who is surprised at the way in which the Center Party has acted in a firm position. One of the country's great liberal leaders wrote at the beginning of the month that the Center Party as a green voice says one thing but does the exact opposite. My question to Emil Källström is therefore: Are you now prepared to act as a real green party, raise environmental taxes and invest in environmental and climate action, or will the Center Party continue with its line with a lot of talk and a little workshop?
i-bdc0d92ac2b8b3fb-360	Mr President, I would like to I do not think anyone is distrusting the Green Party's ability to raise taxes and fatten subsidies on everything and nothing, Janine Alm Ericson. That is not the difficult part of environmental policy. We need to see what responsibility we have as a good example. No one anywhere in the world doubts you and others' ability to make expensive investments in, among other things, the environment. What is our responsibility is to show that it is possible to do both and that it is possible to have positive economic development, where jobs are growing and more people are getting into work, while reducing emissions. That is exactly what happened during the time of the Center Party and the Alliance in power. The economy went up and 340 000 jobs were created, while emissions were reduced. That is what made us an example for many other governments. Evaluation after evaluation has concluded that there is no other country in the world that has had a more ambitious climate and environmental policy than Sweden in the last eight years. Come back when the Green Party has shown that you have the same ability to ensure that jobs grow and that the economy is strong while investing in environmental reform! We will continue to do exactly what we did in government: make sure that we put forward political proposals that will increase jobs and entrepreneurship while punishing the environmentally damaging activities. Green tax exchange is called that. In Almedalen we presented a package of 4 billion. There's more coming. But the environmental ambitions of the Green Party are obscured by the large stack of tax increases on jobs and entrepreneurship. You're a tax-raiser party. It's about everything. But above all, it is jobs and entrepreneurship that pay the bill.
i-bdc0d92ac2b8b3fb-363	Mr President, I would like to Just what Emil Källström is asking for, this government is now doing with its budget. We create jobs and we invest in the climate. It will prove to be a very good policy for Sweden's development. The fact that the Centre Party was able to increase growth and reduce emissions, as it pointed out, is to a large extent a consequence of emissions moving abroad. We hope that the many initiatives that the government is now making will lead us to continue development and reduce emissions both locally and globally. After all, I would like to believe that the Center Party has high ambitions, although I do not think that is the case. The worrying thing is that, in the end, the Center Party has so far only been concerned with criticising the Government's proposals. I would like to ask Emil Källström which of the government's proposals in the field of the environment and climate he would still like to support. Are there even any?
i-bdc0d92ac2b8b3fb-366	Mr President, I would like to I think we have some common ground in certain areas. I think that we could reach agreement on, for example, the Center Party's proposal of last summer for a chemical tax, that we should remove the CO2 tax exemptions that some industries have and so on. I really think we could agree on that. There's no reason for unnecessary polemics. But the important thing now, in a harsh economic situation that applies to the whole world, is that we continue to show that environmental work is not something that only costs money. This is something you can do while laying the foundations for new jobs and economic development. It is only if we continue to show that it is possible to do both and, that is, strengthen the economy and reduce emissions at the same time, as the Alliance did, that we are making a contribution to global emissions. If you show that the environment is something that only costs money and that jobs disappear, as is the case with your budget, then government after government will say: the policy of the Green Party we cannot afford!
i-bdc0d92ac2b8b3fb-368	Mr President, I would like to Of course, it is quite amazing that after eight years of government, the Center Party begins its speech by saying that Sweden has not been in great need of reform for several decades! Thank you very much, there are many of us who can say that! Not least, we need to expand welfare, invest in a more equal society and initiate a real environmental and climate transition. But I don't think that's really what the Center Party had in mind. Mr President, I would like to After a cold summer came the heat. People's solidarity and humanity came to be at the heart of the debate rather than the racism and discouragement that have so long marked it. After all, discouragement and hopelessness are also the breeding ground of the Swedish democrats. When people get or are given opportunities, when people succeed, when we help each other – then it is simply a failure for the Swedish Democrats. I am pleased that so many people are now showing solidarity. I am also pleased with the influence the Left Party has had on the government's budget. We have achieved important welfare reforms. We're adding new building blocks to the welfare building. That is how hope and opportunity are created. For the Left, it is crucial that welfare is expanded, so that new areas and more people are included and unemployment is pushed down. For us, it is obvious that women's living conditions are at the centre of our attention. When welfare is strengthened and when we do not simply repair the reefs created by the right, new steps are taken forward. We simply want to see a society where the yarn is woven more densely and stronger, where despair and discouragement are replaced with hope and where the belief that a better society can be built is strengthened. Now we are taking steps along this road, steps that are of great importance to those concerned. In our Sweden, no woman should risk missing a breast cancer bundle in time just because she could not afford the fee to the mammography when it was time for a visit. Free mammography is now being introduced throughout Sweden. In our Sweden, young women should have the right to their sexuality and avoid the risk of becoming involuntary pregnant. Free contraception is now a reality for all young people up to the age of 20. We invest in women's access to health on equal terms. Today, a middle-aged woman with only primary education is twice as likely to die prematurely as a person with tertiary education. It just doesn't make sense. Nor is it reasonable for the number of heart attacks or strokes to increase among women aged 35 - 64 who have only secondary education. It is equally unreasonable for women to receive cheaper medicines or treatments than men, precisely because they are women. Women's health should be valued as highly as men's. Therefore, primary care is now being provided with additional resources for special work on women's health. Class and gender clearly belong together. Children should of course have fun summer holidays. Resources are now being added to more free summer vacation activities for children. The financial situation of the parents should not be allowed to decide whether the children should be allowed to attend football school, camp or painting camp. In addition, we raise the social security standard for all children. For children between 0 and 6 years of age, it is 100 kroner a month, and for those over there, up to 20 years, 250 kroner a month. This will improve the living conditions of many children. Holiday homes will also be given a boost, and that is an important signal. In fact, I don't know when the last time the government put money into recreation centres. The staffing density can now be strengthened, because that is what the money should be going to – half a billion a year. To this we can add an investment in educational outdoor environments, i.e. the schoolyards should be renovated. It feels like this budget has become the children's budget! Mr President, I would like to Of course everyone should have a place to live. Rental houses should not fall apart, and no one should have to move because you cannot afford the rent after the renovation. This budget spends EUR 1 billion a year on renovating and energy efficiency, especially in the millions of programmes. One requirement for landlords to take part of the initiative is that the rent increases will be reasonable. We are also investing in investment aid to boost the construction of new rental apartments. These investments provide both housing and jobs. In addition, we improve public transport in rural areas. Those living in rural areas should also have environmentally friendly alternatives. In recent years, many of us have been able to access the alarm reports from the social services. We've heard their cry for help. They must be given the opportunity to do good work for the benefit of vulnerable children. The bourgeois government chose not to take those cries for help seriously enough. It wasn't quite quite as important to listen to the staff of social services – mostly women – as to listen to the owners of venture capital companies – usually rich men – when they were worried that they wouldn't get big profits in welfare. Now social services are added a quarter of a billion a year in order to be able to increase staff in the first place but also to ensure the quality of their work. In addition, municipalities are now given the opportunity to strengthen their own efforts, when the unemployment fund is raised, the backlog is removed and free medicines and children's glasses are introduced. People are given more dignity, and the finances of municipalities are strengthened. Young people's mental illness is a warning sign. Too many young, mostly young women, are mentally ill. Stress, low self-confidence, mental illness and self-harm are unfortunately too widespread, and efforts to support and help are too small. But now the youth clinics are being strengthened. Their skills can be broadened and opening hours as well. Money for psychiatry is added to be able to introduce new ways of working and to meet the needs that exist. Mr President, I would like to Last Friday the housing supplement for pensioners was increased, and the tax will be reduced for everyone with a pension of less than SEK 20,000 a month. Care for the elderly is strengthened with more employees, and an educational effort is being carried out. It also introduces free visits to outpatient care for anyone aged 85 or over. New steps are being taken to increase access to welfare. The personal wallet should simply not determine access to healthcare and health. Free dental care is also a reform that we are happy about. Young people up to the age of 23 are now given this opportunity. Class and dental health are closely linked, and when such reforms are carried out, the result is that young people who have the opportunity to continue going to dental care do so even then when they are no longer free of charge. We have been described as the worst enemy of welfare by Expressen in a leader a few weeks ago. I understand that the right is both concerned and angry when welfare embraces new areas and when differences in living conditions are not strengthened and are beginning to be evened out. When welfare is expanded, when the thickness of the wallet is not allowed to govern to the same extent and when tax cuts and privatisations are no longer the solution to social problems, then it simply becomes too difficult for the right. But even I'm a little concerned. There is a need for more welfare building, not less as the right wing thinks. So we are concerned for a few reasons. The gaps in society have become larger after eight years with a bourgeois government. We must reverse that trend. In fact, unequal societies have negative consequences. They are costly, both economically and socially. Expectations from red-green voters to push down unemployment, expand welfare and even out income and living differences are high. Therefore, we would have thought it reasonable to increase capital taxation so that more people could be embraced by welfare and more could get jobs by increasing investment. We can see that after eight years of bourgeois government, welfare has great needs. Welfare simply needs more resources, and jobs need to be increased. Women's conditions must be at the heart of economic policy, because we are creating a better future. This is also the worst enemy of Sweden's democrats, because with hope and faith in the future racism cannot grow. Now we are taking new steps for a better future, with investments in jobs, welfare, environment and climate. Hope will grow, and racism I hope to die.
i-bdc0d92ac2b8b3fb-396	Mr President, I would like to Ulla Andersson wondered when an investment was last made in the recreation centres. It was the Alliance's budget that won the approval of Parliament last year at this time, with an incentive grant, with a performance-based contribution to reduce child groups in Fritis. So it was not that long ago. The Left Party, together with the government, is pursuing a policy of job reduction but the public commitment is increasing. This, of course, does not make sense in the long term, but nothing concerns the Left Party. It never has, because it's always someone else who somehow pays. Now various things are to be free of charge, called There are theatre visits, some treatments, medicines, doctor visits for everyone over a certain age and so on. This is also a subsidy that goes very much to those who are able to pay the social security contributions that exist in welfare. The left wing simply lets it rain equally on low income earners and on rich people. You want the manna of the miracle from heaven to be a sort of normal state: all for everyone. But it is someone who pays, and unfortunately it is the jobs that pay. It is, for example, the unemployed who find it even more difficult to get a job when the tax on entrepreneurship and employment is increased. The question is also raised: why should an 85-year-old former director with a very high pension receive free health care when an 84-year-old with a guarantee pension does not receive it? In addition, why should this 84-year-old with a great need for home care pay SEK 2,532 more a year for his home service with your policy? It is more important for everyone, that Members of Parliament, directors and ministers should also receive free medicines for their children than to protect the oldest, the sickest and the poorest pensioners who receive this home service fee. Explain this to all the elderly with home help who listened to you and believed that now there will be an increase in income!
i-bdc0d92ac2b8b3fb-402	Mr President, I would like to I find it quite interesting when the Christian Democrats who have been part of the government for eight years are talking about someone else paying. After all, we took over a budget deficit of 67 billion because you removed wealth tax and property tax for those who simply earn the best. You chose tax cuts all the time. And yes, someone else had to pay, such as all of us who depend on a well-functioning welfare. The resources of prosperity per capita fell during your time, and that has consequences. But do you know, Jakob Forssmed, that the Nordic welfare model has been quite successful. The very fact that welfare is general and embraces everyone and that even those who actually have good incomes are covered by it has produced a very good result. In fact, I do not think it is a big problem if a well-paid director is allowed to go to outpatient care free of charge, because I think he can pay more in tax if he has a high income. I think it's a good idea to go there with that director. There will be a great many more women who can afford to visit the doctor, and then we will get medical care as needed and an equal health. I think that's central. I understand that the Christian Democrats are upset when welfare is expanded, become available to more people, need to control and it is not tax cuts and privatisations that are at the top of the political agenda anymore, but just welfare as needed, women's living conditions and more jobs.
i-bdc0d92ac2b8b3fb-405	Mr President, I would like to This is exactly the problem. Ulla Andersson has no problems at all to collect any amount of tax on the jobs and then distribute everything to everyone, to the Director as well as to those with low income. This illustrates the problem. The most important thing for people, the most important thing for keeping a society together and the most important thing for reducing gaps in the long term and meeting the welfare commitment of the future is that we have a job to go to and that people can feel the pride it means to support themselves and become part of a working community. That is how we will meet the challenges of the future, not by raising taxes on labour and then distributing everything to everyone. You're not answering the question. Why should an 84-year-old with home care and a low pension pay SEK 2,532 more in home care fees for you to reduce the fee for the director who visits the healthcare service? That question remained unanswered. It's not my numbers, it's your own numbers that show this.
i-bdc0d92ac2b8b3fb-407	Mr President, I would like to The most important thing to keep a society together is to finance the common welfare. That is exactly what you have chosen not to do. The resources for prosperity have shrunk during your time in power. Actually, that's what it looks like. Looking at research, both you and I can see that equal societies feel better and develop better, that is, the national economy is strengthened by a policy that allows, for example, people with higher incomes or capital to appreciate more. I do not know, Jakob Forssmed, if you have chosen to close your eyes to the fact that welfare needs to be added to about 100 billion within a few years to meet today's commitments with today's quality and to meet the surplus target. How do you plan on solving this? All I hear from you is that tax should continue to be reduced, that is, we should borrow for tax payments, and I suspect that it is the sick and the unemployed who will continue to pay it. That is what you stand for, and the view you have that if you are ill or unemployed, you should be punished financially. I find that reprehensible.
i-bdc0d92ac2b8b3fb-410	Mr President, I would like to In a budget debate, it is easy to describe things in black or white. If you sit in government, everything goes in the right direction, and if you are in opposition, everything goes in the wrong direction. Sometimes we can remind ourselves that Sweden is a pretty amazing country. It is a country to which people are currently fleeing because of the crisis and disaster in Syria and elsewhere in the world. It is a country with democracy, it is a rule of law and a country where many people had a job to go to this morning. It's a country where jobs grow. You can think about that a little bit. It took a few months, and then the new government began to tell us that jobs are growing. Yes, it was after eight years of alliance rule. It was when it was the Alliance's budget that ministers and government ministers began to tell us that jobs are now growing, because they found out that it was media smart to say: Now we are running, and now the jobs are coming. But their coming depends on the previous policy. When the alliance government resigned, together with Germany, we had the most well-managed economy in Europe. That's what the government is now trying to black out. It is said that there were huge problems with the economy, but those who follow in the political debate can recall what Magdalena Andersson and others said a couple of years ago. Then they said on the contrary: Do more, spend more, it's too little and it's too late – because of international economic cycles. It sometimes seems that when you listen to the Minister for Finance, Ulla Andersson and others that you have completely forgotten that we were going through a deep international recession but that Sweden was basically quite strong when the alliance government left power. But it's not the same as standing still in a society. Listen to me, Ulla Andersson! That I say that Sweden needs reforms is not because we have created the problems ourselves, but because society is changing gradually. Things happen in a community. Politics needs to see what kind of change is going on and what we can do to keep jobs there and the school working. I believe that it is in five areas that we need in the coming years quite comprehensive reforms. The first is about the jobs. What is strange about the labour market when there are a lot of job vacancies and at the same time a lot of people who are unemployed? The explanation is quite simple. Our labour market works too badly for those who need that first job. Compared to all other countries, we have far fewer simple jobs, first jobs, for those who flee to Sweden or for those who are young and have no education. We're at the bottom of a job that those people can take. We are still living with a social democratic image: No, we should not think, we should not open those jobs and we should not lower those thresholds. But what Sweden would seriously need is a liberalised labour law and a more flexible wage formation. We need to make sure there are apprenticeships that are real. You get a slightly lower salary when you learn a job, but it is much better to have that job to go to than not have a job at all. We need more older people to work. The whole demographic challenge shows this. Instead, we will have a budget at Parliament's table that says that we should make it more expensive to hire older people. We need more jobs for young people, but then we get a budget on Parliament's table that makes it more expensive to hire young people. We need more entrepreneurs in our country, but then we get a budget on Parliament's table that makes it more expensive, more difficult and more complicated to be an entrepreneur. We need more people in our country who take risks, who are educated, who take the opportunity to start a business and who are making an effort, but then we get a budget at Parliament's table that says that we should not only have the world's second highest marginal taxes, but we should have the world's highest marginal taxes – that is fair. But if justice is now a 62% marginal tax, why not 70% fair or 80% fair if it is always the rich who are going to pay? The problem with this policy is that it will make Sweden poorer. As regards jobs, we also have a situation with a fairly rapid transformation of the Swedish labour market. What we all think is very exciting, namely digitalisation – we use our mobile phone for everything we didn't do before – places new demands on the labour market in two ways for Sweden. One question we should ask ourselves is: Can we continue to ensure that Sweden is the world leader and attractive to the new companies? We have companies such as the music service Spotify, payment service Klarna and King who make mobile games. Sweden is a world leader. What do we do to make sure that those entrepreneurs stay? I do not believe that the answer to that question is the world's highest marginal taxes. I do not think that will allow the new, exciting companies to emerge. The second question that digitalisation poses to us is: how do we create security for those people who have jobs that are at risk of disappearing? The second area where we need reforms is on the housing side. We listened to the Minister of Finance earlier who said: we are making the biggest investment in housing in a very long time. That sounds good. But Boverket says about 430 000 new homes are needed. The government says: Let's make a huge effort, that's 250 000 new homes. That's 180,000 homes from the target. This means that fewer young people will be able to leave home, and it makes it even tougher to face integration challenges when new Swedes are going to get a place to live. This means that we will have a growth problem, because the Swedish housing market works so badly that it actually damages Swedish growth. We would need a freer lease in new production. We would have to liberalise the Swedish housing market. Then I know what the left is saying. It says: "You can't do that; it's nasty about market rents in new production – it knocks people out. But I can tell you what the situation is in Stockholm. There is another market, but it is a black market. There, people pay on market terms. You buy and you're forced into a black sector. It's working way too badly. The third challenge is the issue of climate and energy, where we will be in a situation in which Swedish nuclear power plants will close due to age in the coming years. Then we have a choice: Should we make sure that we get an energy production that is carbon-free and that can handle Swedish jobs, or should we end up in a dependence on what emits carbon dioxide? There Stefan Löfven was clear before the elections – he would really get to grips with the energy issue. Then he set up an Energy Commission that has barely had coffee. Nothing is happening, at the same time as we have a huge energy challenge. We have a fourth challenge in terms of migration and integration. I wish the government would show leadership. We know what is needed if people are not to be forced into boats across the Mediterranean, namely that the rich world is creating more legal routes to escape. We need all of us rich countries to say: we are receiving more quota refugees. So they are the ones who come from refugee camps, legally via the UN system. It is stated in the government budget that Europe should do so, but there is no leadership of its own. It's not that the Swedish government in this situation says: Okay, we take responsibility– we go ahead to get others to follow. Instead, we are waiting for someone else while the refugee disaster continues. It is good to ensure that all municipalities take responsibility for the reception of refugees. It's a good proposal, but it doesn't solve the whole challenge if you don't seriously try to lower the thresholds into the jobs and seriously make sure to have a clear job perspective from day one in Sweden – if you don't understand the extent of the situation in which there are now as many people fleeing to Sweden as during the Balkan war. This requires quite fundamental structural reforms. I also think that Danderyd and the other rich municipalities should accept refugees. They should have done that a long time ago. But don't think that's the answer to the whole integration challenge! We need much more action there. The fifth area – and this is important – concerns the situation of older people in our country. For me, the view of older people is about something quite important, and it is that in no other area in Sweden has the collectivist view gone as far as when it comes to older people. Those who have turned 65 should preferably do something other than engage in productive work, is the signal on the Swedish labour market – when we know that people need to work longer. Now we also have a government that makes it more expensive to hire those who are older, so that they really say: We do not want you on the Swedish labour market. That also glides into what the elderly care looks like. At a certain age, as an elderly person, I am no longer allowed to make the decisions that have been obvious in my entire life. What food should I eat? Is it going to be fixed where I live? Am I supposed to be able to decide who's coming over the threshold in the home service? The ageing challenge in the coming years is something the People's Party will put a great deal of our strength on. Finally, Mr President, I would like to say that Sweden is fantastic. Among other things, it is amazing that jobs grow. But I am concerned about the budget on the table. It is a budget of joy calculations, which devotes itself to thinking that it will not affect the labour market if you make it more expensive to hire. Instead, it is believed that all tax money will fall in anyway. It is not believed that it matters to have the world's highest marginal taxes. However, the risk is that the good man will move elsewhere, and then we will get no tax money at all from that person. In a situation in which sick leave is running out, it is decided to abolish the lower parentheses in health insurance and under-finance it. This is an alarming development with regard to Swedish public finances. I hope I am wrong, but it is unfortunately the case that we can already say today that the Swedish Government itself has given up on its job goal. Read the state budget! The potential employment rate is declining in the coming years. In 2019, one year before the lowest unemployment rate in Europe should be reached, according to the government, we have 6.2 per cent unemployment in Sweden while we have 5.0 in Germany. There will be some miracle in the last year between 2019 and 2020 for this to go together.
i-bdc0d92ac2b8b3fb-428	Mr President, I would like to This is a budget debate that has been characterised by ordinary discussions on taxes but also by some unusual discussions about the large flows of refugees we see towards Europe and the many people who are now seeking asylum in Sweden. I would like to mention the fact that the People's Party has recently shown political leadership in supporting the Government's proposal that not only all countries in Europe should accept their responsibilities and accept refugees, but that all municipalities in Sweden should also assume their responsibilities and accept refugees. As I said, this shows political leadership, but it also shows that the People's Party is a party in the Swedish parliament that is able to take responsibility when the country is in a difficult situation. I think the People's Party should have all the honor and honor of that. This will, of course, be unpopular with some municipal politicians and some municipalities that today do not accept new arrivals, but I also know that there are many bourgeois core voters who think it is absolutely right and proper that the whole country should stand up in this situation. I want to ask the People's Party a question. It is also about an area in which the government and the People's Party may have a common view, namely the emphasis on teachers. In this budget, the government is investing heavily in teachers; it is an effort of 3 billion on a full-year effect. This means that almost 40 per cent of the teaching staff – 60 000 teachers – will be able to get an average increase of SEK 3 000 per month. This is, of course, a very important initiative because we know that we have a great shortage of teachers in the future. We need to get more young people to join the teaching profession and also more teachers who choose to remain in the profession. I wonder, Erik Ullenhag, whether this is a proposal that the People's Party might consider supporting. I know that the People's Party is also interested in school issues and that there should be good conditions for teachers in school.
i-bdc0d92ac2b8b3fb-433	Mr President, I would like to Although the whole government budget threatens both the Swedish economy and Swedish jobs, it is clear that there are parts that are good. I think it is reasonable for all municipalities to accept. If we are in a situation where we say that all countries in Europe should receive it, it is quite important that all municipalities in Sweden also receive. What concerns me, however, about the government's integration policy is that it does not really tackle the main problem. I don't think we should have any faith in the fact that all the municipalities are accepting. There will be a number more that get somewhere to start in Sweden, but not so many. We should remind ourselves that we were in a situation where the former alliance government got the municipality after the municipality to sign a contract – there was a huge difference during the time of the alliance government. It is reasonable for everyone to receive. On the other hand, we need to do something for those who are coming and who have low levels of education. They are in a situation where the thresholds into the Swedish labour market are very high. While we make sure to say that they have the right to a sanctuary in this country, we are building huge walls when it comes to entering the Swedish labour market. In the spirit of consensus Magdalena Andersson is trying to create here, I would like to ask her: do you have any thoughts on that part? I am listening very carefully to Ylva Johansson, who has taken over parts of the area of responsibility I had when I was in the government. She points to things we started and that are good, such as validation and complementary training to take advantage of the skills of those who come and have skills with them. But she hardly ever talks about what is the problem, namely that people come to Sweden who have very low education. They must be able to get their first job. If the labour market is to be opened up seriously, the thresholds must be lowered into the Swedish labour market. We need to liberalise labour law. Is Magdalena Andersson prepared to do that? I would also like to ask Magdalena Andersson another question. As I read the budget, I am a little surprised by what Stefan Löfven has said about the fact that it would be good if more people in Europe accepted more quota refugees in the refugee disaster that is now taking place. Why are there no concrete such proposals in this budget, Magdalena Andersson?
i-bdc0d92ac2b8b3fb-438	Mr President, I would like to I fully agree with Erik Ullenhag that it is extremely important that the people who are now receiving asylum in Sweden also get a chance to enter the labour market and get their first job in Sweden. As Erik Ullenhag points out, the government is investing heavily in this budget, for example through a fast track for people with training or professional experience who are in demand in the country. We are investing more in validation and also in supplementary education. Erik Ullenhag is quite right, however, that we need to take measures for people who are quite far from the labour market. We have some different ideas about how to do it in the best way. Erik Ullenhag and the bourgeois parties often want to subsidise whole sectors, lower the minimum wages for all in the labour market and liberalise labour law. The more we believe in going in with individual support to support the individual who is far from the labour market – that one should be able to get a pay subsidy to that person. It is a more cost-effective way to resolve this issue. Here, of course, we are prepared to make further proposals to make it easy for people to get their first job.
i-bdc0d92ac2b8b3fb-440	Mr President, I would like to I apologize. I should also have answered the question about the teachers. Yes, we will work for more higher teachers' salaries. Then we believe that the first teacher system, which we found, which ensures that good teachers can actually develop wages during a professional period is a good and wise way to raise teachers' salaries. But I can already reveal that we will match the government in those parts of the People's Party budget. We have done some things that have made it possible for more people to go to the teacher's school. It's a start to a turn. I am very pleased that the government will continue to do so if it succeeds in practice. I am a little concerned when I look at municipalities where Magdalena Andersson's party colleagues run, such as the City of Stockholm. There we had a big raise when the People's Party sat on the school squad, while nothing extra is being given to the teachers. This is a concern in the Stockholm area. Magdalena Andersson was at the end of the basic difference between her and me. I think we need more simple jobs, we need a door in. I think we need to create a Sweden where you get the first job and then can make a class trip in Sweden and in that way have your own salary to live on. There, unfortunately, I interpret that there are quite little ideas on the part of the government.
i-bdc0d92ac2b8b3fb-444	Mr President, I would like to Neoliberalism has been tried. This may be news for Erik Ullenhag, but the liberalisation of the labour market and infrastructure, privatisations, a shrinking welfare and ever-increasing divides that some kind of natural law has actually been tried and most of them have also been found to have failed, at least for the vast majority of people. But the People's Party closes its eyes, sees nothing and hears nothing and just wants to continue that way forward. I get a little perplexed when I listen to you, Erik Ullenhag. You're talking about the need for major reforms. I also think that we need to do this, but above all for a very different reason than you think. The reforms you are talking about are, of course, reducing entry wages, destroying labour law and so on, while I am talking about the need for increased resources for welfare and greater equality. The Institute of Economics has stated that we need approximately SEK 100 billion for welfare by 2018 or if it is 2019 to meet today's commitments with today's quality and to meet the surplus target. The only thing I hear from you and your comrades on the bourgeois right is continued tax cuts. It will be a new job tax deduction, gift deduction, reduced social security contributions and reduced corporate taxes. And you want to lower the taxes for those who earn the best. How are you going to finance the welfare forward? I really wonder. I have not heard an answer, either from you or anyone from the other bourgeois parties, and actually think that you owe that question an answer. The Moderates do not want to touch the interest rebates, because they are so politically correct, according to the Moderates. I myself have not heard you say anything about how you are going to manage to finance welfare, but just talk about the deterioration of labour law and tax cuts.
i-bdc0d92ac2b8b3fb-448	Mr President, I would like to Well, then came the day the Left Party would review what has worked and didn't work in history. There are other ideologies that have been tested in history that went quite poorly. I won't call you a Communist. But do not say that it is neoliberalism to say that it is a bit bad to have the world's highest taxes for those who have trained! Reducing marginal taxes instead of making sure that we beat the island kingdom of Aruba is not neoliberalism. Don't tell me it's neoliberalism when I'm trying to find ways to make sure that those who don't have a job have a job to go to. You can look out at the Swedish housing market and say that it works well. If you stand here in Parliament's speaker's chair and say that it works well with rent regulation, so fine, but then we have completely different pictures of reality, Ulla Andersson. My picture and what I hear when I talk to people is not that the Swedish housing market works very well. My picture is a situation where anyone who moves to Stockholm or other major cities is either forced to pay very expensively for a right-of-occupancy apartment or enter a second, third or fourth-hand market, or buy a black deal or stand out for years into the housing queue. If you are going to make historical references, Ulla Andersson, the queue for a rental apartment in Stockholm is longer than it was for a car in former DDR. That's what some people say. The markets that are fully regulated work a little poorly. But be careful with the descriptions of what we're talking about. Do I think there is a financing challenge? Sure. We have proposed increased environmental taxes and believe that this is the way forward. We need to tax what is bad, not what is good. But what is the major financing challenge, Ulla Andersson? Well, that's how we make sure that jobs grow, that people have a job to go to at all. There's the basic difference between you and me that you think there'll be more work when you make it more expensive to hire, when people have to pay more taxes when they're working, when you make it more expensive to hire older people and more expensive to hire younger ones. I think environmental taxes work, that is to say that it will be a little less bad if there is higher tax on it. I'm afraid it works the same way when you make it much more expensive to hire people.
i-bdc0d92ac2b8b3fb-452	Mr President, I would like to Liberalisation of labour law, privatisations, the liberalisation of infrastructure, market rents and ever-growing gaps have enormous consequences in terms of societies that do not stick together, racism that is growing, a deterioration in the socio-economic performance and increased social insecurity. In Erik Ullenhag's future scenario, the worst thing that could happen is that marginal taxes are raised from 57 to 60 per cent for people who have very high incomes. And I don't think they will stop working because they get 3% higher marginal tax, but I think they will continue to do their best in their profession to develop their own work. During your time in power, Erik Ullenhag, the resources for prosperity decreased by SEK 5,000 per capita, and it was a historical trend break. Tax cuts, privatisations and deregulation have consequences, including reduced resources for welfare. And now you have a 100 billion gap to pass today's quality.
i-bdc0d92ac2b8b3fb-455	Mr President, I would like to Throughout this debate, there is a great deal of barking at the previous job tax deductions. That is what has created all of Sweden's problems. Then perhaps voters think that if it has created all of Sweden's problems, should they not be removed? Shouldn't you have brought a budget to Parliament's table where you had proposed substantial tax increases for bus drivers and nurses? Shouldn't you have made sure that you came back to Parliament's table with strong tax increases for teachers and preschool teachers if this was a problem? In my world, it's actually pretty good if you have the opportunity to make sure that people get a little more money in their wallet. In my world, we did something pretty big when we made sure that people who had a little less margin could afford to do what they couldn't afford to do in the past. That is why you do not dare to come to Parliament's table with these tax increases. But it is not possible to both have the cake and eat it, Ulla Andersson. It is not possible to yell at job tax deductions and then come to Parliament without proposing a substantial increase in taxes for these particular income groups. In fact, at some point you'll have to make up your mind!
i-bdc0d92ac2b8b3fb-457	Mr President, I would like to Sweden should be a safe country for everyone where everyone can grow and live good lives regardless of origin. It should be a country where the patient receives the best care regardless of income, where the elderly are seen as an invaluable part of the Community. It should be a country where anyone who wants and can have a job to go to or a company to run. The school should provide knowledge for life, and children should not be predestined to live as their parents. It should be a country where trust grows, where family relationships have time – and take time. Such a Sweden requires a strong economy, a strong well-being and a strong community, not something at the expense of something else, but all three. If any of it is missing, everything will soon be missing. I am proud of the wave of humanity that we see in Sweden, everyone who says: Welcome! You must leave everything. Our country is your country. I'm proud of everyone who not only opens their hearts but even their homes to fugitives. I am proud of all those who, in civil society, raise money to help. I think it is important how the policy responds to this commitment. And how is this done on the part of the government? Despite the appeals of 140 NGOs not to abolish the tax reduction on gifts, the government is doing just that. You raise the tax on gifts to the Red Cross, Doctors Without Borders and the City Mission. In the rhetoric, aid organizations are important and can come for coffee at the Prime Minister's, but in reality, where every crown plays a role, the government pulls in. It is one of the government's responses to the involvement of civil society, and it is a lousy response, I think. The fact that the government is thus turning its back on civil society and all the people who are helping and being helped is indeed bad enough. But there are, of course, more problems with government policy. How does the government respond to the big challenge that everyone who is now fleeing to Sweden should have the chance to enter society, not just be admitted to Sweden but get the chance to get into work? Greater compensation for municipalities for better reception is good. More money for the refugee guides introduced at the initiative of the Christian Democrats is also a good investment in the government's budget. But the government lacks a response to the most important integration challenge. It's about the jobs. Here the government is empty, tired and without credibility. There are also some proposals that are directly harmful. It's like the government doesn't see that we also need simpler jobs. The government's 'no' to certain jobs is also a 'no' to everyone's being given the chance to contribute. It is a 'no' to working together and to the pride of supporting oneself. That's a no to narrowing gaps in the long term. It is a very poor response to the integration challenge, a kind of non-reply. The Christian Democrats presented this spring, in addition to measures for education and validation, a proposal for new arrivals to work together equivalent to SEK 100 000 per year tax-free for the first five years. We have proposed measures to increase the drivers of jobs. We also want to see a double job tax deduction for the long-term unemployed in order to lower the thresholds to get back to work. We want to make some changes in labour law. We want to let ROT continue to provide jobs to more and include more services in RUT so that the tens of thousands who work with domestic services can become even more numerous. The government has chosen a different path. It has chosen to attack the ROT and to raise taxes to hire young people and, not least, older people. They have chosen to increase taxes on working. They have chosen to limit RUT, even though 50% of those who get jobs in RUT industries are born abroad. Magdalena Andersson says that the government's RUT deterioration will have no effect without this type of job continuing to grow. But even now it has created such uncertainty that there is hardly a single RUT company anymore. It has gone from 9% growth of RUT companies per year to almost zero this year. With 40 billion in increased taxes, where 80 percent are charged on jobs and entrepreneurship, there is only one thing to say: Bye-bye job! The fact that the government lacks answers in employment policy is very serious. But there is reason to highlight things that are good in the budget. It is good to make an effort on mental illness among children and young people. One of our greatest challenges for the future is to ensure that our children are as well as they materially have. It is a good and welcome investment in the budget, which we have called for. I would like the government to go in partnership with the parents and say: You parents are the most important people in the lives of the children. We want to do everything we can to support you. The government should therefore invest some of these and other resources in parental support programmes, which have a very good effect on tackling this problem. The problem with government policy is that people point fingers at families to a large extent and constantly tell parents what they are doing bad and wrong. Instead, parents and families should be seen as one of society's most important resources for our children to have a good childhood and grow up to be responsible and well-functioning people in our society. Mr President, I would like to Much can be said about the government's budget falling last autumn. However, it gave the government a chance to think another lap and, for example, to take in criticism of the job-destroying proposals and listen to all those who want to remain free of choice. You had the opportunity to take a thought break. Instead, the government seems to have taken a break from the thought, locked itself in a windowless room where no one seems to have pointed out that it is probably a bad idea with a policy that destroys jobs and does not let people decide over their lives. What has happened is that the 2016 budget aggravates several of the proposals from last autumn. It reinforces the aggravation for companies, deepens the job case and makes some of the vow breaches more breaking. Even more people than last autumn are now going to pay government taxes. It will be even more expensive than in last autumn's proposal to employ older people in the labour market, despite the fact that we really need a longer working life to cope with the welfare and pensions of the future. Freedom of choice for individuals and families is still to be attacked on a broad front. The small shard of freedom of choice that the custody allowance has meant for many should be removed, and parental insurance should be quotad. It is true that the Parliament stopped the proposal to abolish the right to choose a health centre. But there will be further attempts to restrict freedom of choice, be so sure. Care for the elderly, school, home care and care – no activity is safe in this regard. The government is trying to make it sound like freedom of choice is mostly about companies and profits. However, freedom of choice is linked to dignity that smiles and long straws. Freedom of choice is to be able to decide for yourself who should care in situations where you are most fragile and vulnerable and to decide for yourself who spends the days with your children when you are at work. It is not entrepreneurs who have to pay the highest price for the government's anti-election policy, but the parents of young children, the most vulnerable elderly and the sick. Mr President, I would like to Jobs are the key to well-being, community and reduction of gaps. This is why Sweden needs another economic policy – a policy that recognises that all jobs are needed and that knows that it is in companies that jobs are emerging above all. We need an economic policy for a Sweden where people feel it worthwhile to realize an idea and where everyone can work 100 per cent – not 100 per cent of full-time but 100 per cent of their ability. We need an economic policy for Sweden where we step by step develop our common welfare and where we create the conditions for community in strong families and in a strong civil society. In that society, we stand up for those who falter and raise our voice for those who do not stand up to the megaphones.
