i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-0	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Sweden is heading in the wrong direction. Let's see how sickness rates are increasing. We see an increasing number of people getting stuck in exclusion where young people without education and born abroad find it too difficult to get the first job. We see serious violent crimes and criminal settlements in the middle of our cities. We see Russia's aggression increasing tensions in our neighbourhood. At this serious moment, Sweden has a government that cannot meet Sweden's challenges, which deepens instead of addressing Sweden's problems and which pursues a policy for fewer jobs, less integration and lower growth. It makes Sweden weaker. Because Stefan Löfven has a responsibility, but he won't take it. Mr President, I would like to The other week, I met a man my age at a train station. He'd been on a trip for weeks. Now he had reached Sweden from Syria where his journey began. He needed a stroller for his son and somewhere to go. On that day he was one of 1,200 asylum seekers who came to Sweden. We see the greatest refugee disaster the world has seen since World War II. Stopping the carnage and restoring people's hope for the future in their own countries is the only long-term solution. But no one should be led to believe that such a solution is imminent. We have a responsibility to help, in the vicinity of conflicts and here in Sweden. No other country in Europe has received as many refugees per inhabitant as Sweden. That cannot continue to be the case. All countries must share responsibility. It is clear that the situation is not sustainable, and it is clear that the government is not in control. This is why, this weekend, the Alliance initiated talks with the government about order and order in the reception. I welcome the fact that these talks will soon be in place. Some points are particularly important. The first is to secure our borders. Control over the border is a fundamental prerequisite for regulated immigration. We need order and order in the receipt of temporary residence permits and faster redress against safe countries. We must adhere to the principle that anyone who needs protection should have it and that anyone who receives a 'no' should leave Sweden as soon as possible. When pressure is greater than ever, cost control must also be tougher than ever. That is why we propose that the level of compensation for asylum accommodation be reviewed. We need to help the neighbourhood with a more focused development policy. People should not have to starve in refugee camps. Sweden can and will help refugees in need. Recurrent crisis measures are not a long-term solution. What we need is order and an effective reception. That is why it is important for us to be able to reach a common understanding. Sweden needs responsible leadership.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-11	Mr President, I would like to An emergency situation requires immediate action, but it also requires long-term policies that equip Sweden, make us stronger in the future and enable more people to get to their right at work. For far too many people, the road to the labour market is still closed, and Stefan Löfven stands in the way. One in seven is in isolation. Many people lack the knowledge and experience required in today's labour market. Young people without upper secondary education and born abroad are most affected and find it difficult to get even the very first job. Here is the crucial conflict in Swedish politics. Unlike the government, we moderates in our budget have given priority to jobs so that more people can enter the labour market. It is about equipping people for the first job with expanded, effective vocational training and making it easier to hire someone on the first job through the first job, a new form of employment. It is a question of making demands that efforts must be made to get the first job through training obligations for those who have come here and clearer requirements for supply support. It is about having taxes that make it always pay to take the first job compared to going on benefits, especially for those who have the low income. Estimates show that this policy can give Sweden 37 000 new jobs. It sends a clear message: Everyone must make an effort to make themselves employable, and it should always pay to work.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-17	This is the conflict in Swedish politics. With our policy, it pays to work, and jobs increase. With Stefan Lövven's policy, grants are increased, and jobs are becoming fewer. Then Sweden is heading in the wrong direction. Mr President, I would like to As the economy grows, more people can share more. Every hour worked lays the foundation for more knowledge in school, better care and safety in streets and squares. Sweden is one of the world's strongest and richest societies, but that position does not come for free. Now the Swedish people pay the price because the two government parties prioritise power over jobs. Out of the one who gets out of bed in the morning and gets in the car and goes to work, the government wants to hug every drop. Six out of ten Swedes get less money left in their wallet with government policy. The same applies to eight out of ten households. Gas, diesel and electricity will be more expensive. Employment should be more expensive. The government operates a policy that drains both people's wallets and companies' order books. The pronounced criticism of growth is usually heard from one of the government parties, but it is not alone. Both growth-critical environmental parties, anti-integrity Swedish democrats and backward Social Democrats are, like the Left Party, damaging to Sweden's ability to stand strong in a troubled world. The government's left-wing policy makes Sweden poorer. Therefore, Sweden is now heading in the wrong direction. I say go to work! Stefan Löfven says, "Go on a grant! Jimmie Åkesson says: It is not my responsibility. Anyone who is unanswered about jobs, integration and growth is irresponsible in politics. Sweden deserves better. Sweden knows more.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-24	Mr President, I would like to Sweden needs a policy for more jobs, higher growth and better integration. I would like to lead such a policy on the basis of the moderate proposals of the Alliance in government. It would give a policy that leads forward and makes Sweden stronger. Sweden knows more, but then Sweden needs a better government.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-25	Mr President, I would like to It has been just over a year since the voters gave a gloomy message to the Moderates. In a harsh way, voters rejected Moderate politics. They did it because they had grown tired of the Moderates having a single idea of politics, and that is to lower the tax and cut down. It's cutbacks that pay for the party, because when the Moderates lower taxes, there'll always be cutbacks. With that in mind and with a new party leader in place, we were probably some who thought there would be something new, that reflection would apply and that there would be a political renewal. Oh, my God, we cheated on you. When we listen to Anna Kinberg Batra, it's like time has stood still. It is clear that there has been no significant development of ideas and that no new ideas have emerged from this situation. There is only one political idea, and that is to lower taxes and cut back. Now the Moderates are making a sixth job tax deduction. In the budget that the Moderates have put on Parliament's table, we see tax cuts of approximately SEK 26 billion. And the coming weekend, the Moderates will feast on a little more tax cuts, such as the tax for those who have the best – the defense tax – that they want to reduce by SEK 6 billion. It is more of the same old policy – the one that led to higher unemployment, higher long-term unemployment, falling school outcomes, a welfare that has very big problems in delivering what people expect and also reduced productivity development and competitiveness; Sweden has gone down from third to tenth place in the World Economic Forum's competitiveness index. What does it take, Anna Kinberg Batra, for you to realise that Sweden needs investments, not cuts?
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-31	Mr President, I would like to What is required for the Prime Minister to understand that the election movement has already been?
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-32	Here stands Stefan Löfven crying out for the treasure, just as Social Democrats usually do. It's a pretty tax-fixed party. But he's right on one point: if you've lost the election-- and we did the Moderates and the Alliance-- you need a review. That is precisely why we have proposed a new form of employment at Parliament's table, for example, so that more people can get the first job and learn the job at work. That is why we have gone through economic policy, and that is why the Alliance is presenting common guidelines that improve jobs and growth in Sweden. The person who remains in the election movement and is tax-fixed is Stefan Löfven. When Sweden needs to face new challenges, when we need to break a new alienation, he stands here and sounds like the election movement has not ended. I wonder: where is the Social Democratic review, and where is Stefan Lövven's new idea of breaking the new exclusion, instead of as he now does- deepening it?
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-36	Mr President, I would like to As usual, the Social Democrats have a pragmatic approach to taxation. We think, for example, that pensioners should have reduced taxes – that is quite reasonable. However, we do not think it is so dramatic if someone who earns 50 000 kroner a month receives 30 kroner of tax per month; it is not a tax shock. It's all up there where the dividing line goes. It can't be any clearer than this. It's the government's job agenda. We invest in investments in housing, infrastructure, the climate, industrial policy, knowledge raising and skills upgrading so that Sweden strengthens its competitiveness. It's investment. In all these areas, you want cuts – in the residential area, in the building of knowledge and so on. What is required for Anna Kinberg Batra to start prioritising investments, knowledge raising, a better care for the elderly and what is needed for Sweden to feel good?
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-39	Mr President, I would like to More than a million employees receive higher taxes with the Government's budget bill – those who are going to work and have not got their first job, those who continue to work in the middle of life and try to make everyday life go together and those who take the car to work. The family where both take the car and both use the ROT gets about SEK 10,000 less a month to live on with Stefan Lövven's politics. Anyone who wants to continue working will have more difficulty with government policy. I am proud to put forward proposals at the table of this House that make it more profitable to work, within the framework of responsible public finances. What Stefan Löfven really invests in and he forgot to talk about is over 150 billion in higher taxes on Swedish society in total. The tax increases that he places on Parliament's table risk strangling jobs and growth and making it more difficult for Sweden to break the new exclusion and meet our challenges. Even independent assessors note that this risks reducing employment. Sweden cannot afford that.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-44	Mr President, I would like to Does Anna Kinberg Batra want another government as soon as possible?
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-45	Mr President, I would like to By 2018, I want to lead the Alliance in government positions, and I want to do so based on a responsible economic policy, I want to do so with respect for Parliament's rules and I want to do so in a way that does not throw Sweden into chaos and crisis right now. There is one party in this House that wants to. We saw this last autumn, and we saw it in statements that have now been repeated again. What the Swedish Democrats seem to want with this is to get attention. What I want is to be able to build Sweden strong. Then one must build reforms that can then be implemented in a government position and be able to undertake to do so in a government position. This cannot be done with parties which are explicitly in favour of triggering crises, which are unstable in their views, which do not have proposals to break the new exclusion and which, for example, want to increase the contributions to those who do not work. That is why I am in favour of the moderate budget motion and intend to vote in favour of it. I intend to continue to lead the Alliance's work in order to come back stronger in government.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-49	Mr President, I would like to The question was very concrete and quite simple to answer. As an opposition politician, it should not be so difficult to say yes to it, although I did not hear such a thing from Anna Kinberg Batra. I am here as an opposition politician to represent my constituents. I am here as an opposition politician to implement it. I am doing what I can to carry out what I promised my constituents in the election campaign. If you do not have that starting point as an opposition politician, I find it difficult to understand what you are doing here at all. Mr President, I would like to As a consequence of the speech that we have just heard from Anna Kinberg Batra, I do not understand why she has so much difficulty in answering yes to the question, so I repeat it one more time: does Anna Kinberg Batra want another government as soon as possible?
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-52	Mr President, I would like to Jimmie Åkesson said in a debate quite recently that it was not his job to take responsibility. That's where we split up. It is one thing to try to play on people's concerns in the short term and another to lead the country so that Sweden can be built stronger in the long term. I'm going to take responsibility for that. That is why I have put a budget motion on Parliament's table that would make Sweden stronger. We have presented common guidelines with the alliance parties, which together could build Sweden considerably stronger. It is not our intention now to contribute to or take the initiative to throw Sweden into a political crisis in the midst of a number of urgent challenges that need to be met and to which I note that the Swedish Democrats do not have an answer. It's not enough to resist, Jimmie Åkesson. We must also be in favour of something that we can implement, such as facing a troubled world with NATO and breaking the new alienation that we now see emerging. The Swedish Democrats do not have an answer to that.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-56	Mr President, I would like to 2015 is the year when it is decided whether we are able to meet the climate challenge in time or whether our ability as a humanity to avoid a full-scale climate disaster runs out of our hands. It is not time for environmental policy arguments, it is time for responsibility. All parties should be environmental parties. That is why I would like to ask Anna Kinberg Batra a question about the climate. Mattias Svensson's excellent book Environmental Policy for Moderates, which can also be recommended to one or another environmental party, says: The top priority is to establish some sort of functioning pricing on the emissions that heat our planet. Only then can the many processes that are needed to reduce emissions be set in motion. Only then can the many processes that are needed to reduce emissions be set in motion – it is wise and a principle where environmental parties and moderates should be able to meet. But when I read the Moderate Budget Movement, I find none of this. Every one of the adjustments of economic instruments proposed by the government takes the Moderates away. Increased CO2 tax, truck tax, airline tax – everything the Moderates want to throw in the trash. And not only that: investments in the climate are also being taken away. With the Moderates there will be no new green districts, no local climate investments, no investments in public transport in sparsely populated areas, no investment in biogas from our farms and no solar cells on our roofs. With precision, you remove what can save the climate, to afford tax cuts. One might wonder what a moderate Minister for the Environment would have said in Paris: The climate is important – been sûr – but tax cuts are more important. I know that Anna Kinberg Batra has also read Mattias Svensson's book. So I would like to ask what conclusions did you draw?
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-63	Mr President, I would like to Now we will not stand here and talk about the individual book or the individual author – I have a signed copy at home of the nice book – but we will talk a little about what Sweden actually does for the environment and climate. For example, we can talk about the transport sector, which is actually the big villain when it comes to fossil emissions. For example, if you are serious about doing something about the climate, you should vote in favour of our higher environmental car premium. We're spending 41 million more than the government. We should help in the green transition in the transport sector. We propose that charging hybrids, i.e. cars that people are now buying to reset, should also be covered by the environmental car premium. There should also be serious talk about the supply of electricity. I know that Gustav Fridolin does not agree, but I would like to have a debate with the Swedish people on this with electricity at competitive prices and electricity that does not force us to import the electricity of fossil sources, which would be the alternative if, as the Green Party wants, nuclear power were to be rapidly phased out. Now Gustav Fridolin sees his dream come true. But we still have gas-drilling cars on our roads and a great demand to switch to electricity. I would like to ask a question back to Gustav Fridolin, because these two questions are linked: how can you switch to more electric cars if you produce less fossil-free electricity?
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-68	Mr President, I would like to At one time environmentalists were accused of wanting to go back to the earth's balls. Nowadays, the Moderates want to go back to the nuclear society. I'd say it's just as old-fashioned. We can get more electric cars if we invest in building fossil-free, renewable energy that is not dependent on picking up either uranium or fossil fuels from our soils. Do you know that if Sweden had had the same rate of renewable energy expansion that Germany already has today, that would mean 18 000 – 25 000 new jobs in Sweden. They are rejected if we stick to the nuclear and fossil society. In your budget motion, environmental investments are eliminated. There is no area where you cut as much as in the environment. You delete every bit tougher proposals, every single economic instrument that we propose because you do not dare to take the climate threat seriously, because you do not dare to say to people as it is: This will be tough, this is a real challenge, but we have to do this to have a good soil to hand over to our children.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-71	Mr President, I would like to It remains to be seen if Gustav Fridolin votes for our higher investment in the environmental car premium. He didn't really answer that. The renewable energy is growing so it creaks. We see how the prices of solar cells go down, which is very good. We have seen how wind power has been tenfolded during the time of the Alliance in government. We have also seen how growth in all cases in Sweden makes it possible that we have both industrial production with good electricity supply and reduced emissions – it is related as well. If you, like the Green Party, want to reduce working hours, if you want us to work less, if you have a congress decision to question an economy based on growth, then you can ask yourself how we can afford to continue investing in renewable energy – we need that, I look forward to, and I want to do that. Until then – whatever you think about it – about 40% of the electricity comes from nuclear power. That's why we need it. Otherwise, we are forced to import from fossil sources, which would impair the climate.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-75	Mr President, I would like to In the draft budget jointly presented by the Left Party and the Government, there is a wide range of welfare reforms. There are investments in young people's mental health – much needed. There are more employees at our holiday homes around Sweden. Renovation of worn-out rental properties is supported, as is new residential building. It's welfare reform that I'm proud of. After eight years of bourgeois politics, with growing divides and shrinking resources to welfare, there is much to repair. But we don't settle for repairs. Our draft budget also represents new steps in expanding welfare, such as free contraception for young people and free outpatient care for the very oldest. It is these proposals for an expanded welfare that Anna Kinberg Batra and the Moderates describe as contributing curling. Instead of having the ambition to improve and strengthen prosperity, you are presenting a budget where the ambition level is limited to continuing to receive RUT grants for pure luxury areas such as bartenders or pool cleaning. That's what I call contribution curling – that together we should pay with RUT support for the bartender if you arrange a cocktail party. Should we invest our common resources in hiring more in fritis or in subsidizing pool cleaning? Now the December Agreement has fallen. You threaten to break out parts of the budget to try to stop them. There are many around Sweden who wonder: What welfare reforms do you intend to try to stop in the Riksdag? Now is the time to answer.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-79	Mr President, I would like to We will deal with the budget within the rules that exist. I have ten budget captains behind me in this House, I think, half of them as chairman of the Finance Committee, and I am quite familiar with the process. I can be clear: as the Left Party and the Swedish Democrats did the other autumn, tearing up a decision taken by Parliament on the budget is not responsible, and I have given clear information that I do not intend to do so. However, I would like to ask Jonas Sjöstedt where the welfare comes from. In the RUT sector, for example, many people get their very first job. The real exclusion is in the groups that never enter the labour market, which we now see increasing. They want Jonas Sjöstedt to squeeze. Those who now live off, for example, support and wonder, Should I ever get my first job? Perhaps it would have been possible to get it within a RUT company, which Jonas Sjöstedt is now there squeezing, could have got a first job if it were reasonable taxes on hiring someone who is new and untested, whether the company has a collective agreement or not. But Jonas Sjöstedt says no to that. These are concrete proposals that we have put forward.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-83	Mr President, I would like to The budget that we are presenting together with the government increases employment and provides more people with training. These are housing and welfare initiatives. It also provides private investment. But, Anna Kinberg Batra, you carefully avoided answering the question. You're playing a political game. You're threatening to break important welfare reforms. But it's not for me that you should answer. You will answer, for the sick who wonder if the distant parentheses disappear. They're worried. You should answer, for those who have sat and rejoiced at the meeting when the Fritis staff have talked about being able to have a colleague and do more good things with the children. You will answer those who hope to get work to renovate the worn-out rental properties. You're playing a political game. But it's about people's lives and people's living conditions. You owe them an answer. What welfare reforms are you going to try to stop?
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-87	Mr President, I would like to It is part of this exercise that the Left Party leader should have this tone. However, we who are following the debate in this House or at a distance can consider whether you trust Jonas Sjöstedt's assessment of the employment effects of the government or, for example, of the Bank of Finland or other independent assessors, who clearly believe that employment is falling. Thus, raising taxes on labour greatly reduces employment and forces those who are already outside into prolonged and deeper exclusion. That is the great injustice, Jonas Sjöstedt. The resources of well-being – which enable us, for example, to increase funding for health care and social care by over 3 billion this year and for education by 2.6 billion this year – are resources that come from the fact that it pays to work. My big problem with the Left Party is that this is exactly what Jonas Sjöstedt is against.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-89	Mr President, I would like to On Monday, the EU adopted a common position on the conflict in Syria. The international community must now be able to enforce two tracks in parallel. The first is a security track, which focuses on the fight against ISIL and other terrorist groups. The Assad regime bears the main responsibility for the conflict in Syria and for the massive abuse of civilians. It also means that in the absence of commitment from this regime, they cannot be a partner in the fight against ISIL. The second is a political track with a UN-led process that will end the conflict and its fundamental causes based on the Geneva communiqué of June 2012. Russia's action contributes to the escalation of the conflict, and it also makes a political solution difficult. All attacks on other than ISIL and other than UN-designated terrorist groups must be stopped immediately. We take very seriously the information that civilians including children have been killed in Russian air strikes. At the same time, the EU and its Member States are now increasing support for humanitarian assistance in the immediate region. It currently amounts to around EUR 4 billion. It is, of course, the case that the main solution to the global refugee crisis is to bring peace. Here, the EU and all its Member States will push for their full common weight. But more is needed. All countries of the European Union must also assume their responsibility for the reception of refugees in the crisis that we see in the wake of the conflict in Syria, in Afghanistan and in Iraq. Sweden has won a partial victory in Brussels in this area, but there is still a lot and a lot of work to be done to achieve a fair distribution system in the EU. The fact that the majority of the reception takes place in Sweden, Germany and Austria is an untenable situation, and it must be resolved. But there's still more to it. All municipalities in Sweden must also contribute according to their conditions. It is not good enough for several municipalities to get on their knees while others are barely going in. There is a proposal for legislation on fair distribution in Sweden, and it will come to Parliament shortly.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-95	It's gonna take more anyway. Last week 9 363 people applied for asylum here in Sweden. We, our country, are now carrying out one of the largest humanitarian efforts in the history of the country. They will require both humanity and firmness. Standard state aid to municipalities is increased by 50 per cent. Equally, support for children's schooling for asylum seekers is increased. New accommodations will be simple and basic. They can also include tent camps. New solutions will be flexible and unorthodox and focus on roofing, schooling and the provision of unaccompanied children and young people. Internal foreigner control is sharpened. The process of rejecting those without asylum reasons will be intensified. The Government's crisis organisation also follows developments hour by hour and acts accordingly. At the same time, we have now begun to reform the e-establishment process for a faster Swedish education, stronger validation efforts, expanded vocational training and a fast track with the parties. So those who are granted asylum in Sweden – from higher academics to people who have short-term education – can quickly begin to contribute to the society that they now become part of. In the near future, the government will be talking with the opposition about developing new cross-block solutions in this acute situation. I'm ready to listen to any suggestions. Now no party prestige can come before the best in the country. United as a country, we face an extremely difficult task. Then we will also show the strength of a cohesive Sweden.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-98	Now it becomes even more important to strengthen Swedish society for everyone regardless of whether you have lived here for a long time or if you have just come here. The school calls for more teachers. Health care and care for the elderly call for more educated colleagues. Industry is calling for investment in rail, infrastructure, housing and the right skills. For almost a decade the answer has been: We lower the tax! Now the answer is different. Finally, the government can say: we hear you. Let's start investing!
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-99	Instead of pretending that poorer unemployed and insured people will create jobs, we are now investing in a new job agenda for Sweden with housing investments, continued regulatory simplifications and shorter construction processes so that people can move to where the jobs are and young people move to where the education is. We make investments in railway maintenance, climate change and export, both so that society can function and entrepreneurs can expand. With an end to the condemned operations phase 3 and start-ups and instead the start of a real knowledge boost with 60 000 more educational opportunities, we can honestly demand that everyone who can work should do the same. This is just the beginning, but it's the beginning of the turn.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-100	Now the big words about Swedish schools are followed up with big investments, increased teacher salaries, more teachers and greater support for the schools that need it most. It's also just the beginning, but it's the beginning of the turn. Now we are investing in 4,000 new nurses in care for the elderly. We're raising the quality of health care. We strengthen maternity care and the work against mental illness, and we do mammography and children's medicines free of charge. At the same time, we are taking the first step towards equal taxation of wages and pensions. That is how we begin to respond to ill health, inequality and inequality. This is just the beginning, too. But, Mr President, that is the beginning of the turnaround.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-102	It will not turn over overnight, but the turnaround must be done. It is not possible to reduce the tax burden to better infrastructure, to reduce it to believe it creates better school results or to employ more staff with less money. I can't. If the Moderates don't believe me, they may remember their own words in the election movement where they said: The time of tax cuts is over. Rather, we need tax increases to cope with welfare. That's what it sounded like. Now, if all four bourgeois parties were to get through the tax cuts they want, it would be equivalent to cuts against the government's budget of a total of SEK 64 billion. This corresponds to the funding of KTH, Chalmers, SLU, Uppsala, Lund, Stockholm and Gothenburg – all Swedish universities and colleges including the research programme and the entire student grant. This corresponds to the employment of 42 000 nurses and 45 000 primary school teachers. That is where the proposals for cuts and tax cuts lie. The Swedish Democrats do not want to be worse. They also intend to vote for the Moderates' budget, because it is the closest thing they can do. The Swedish Democrats want to remove a total of almost SEK 90 billion from the municipalities until 2019 simply because they pretend that huge money and resources are created by Swedish borders. Let me remind you that politics is real. Politics has real consequences in people's everyday lives. Mr President, I would like to Sweden is in a serious situation, and that is why I now welcome the cross-block cooperation that the opposition has shown over the last few days to want to initiate. It is also the government's choice. It is cooperation, not division, and it is social investment, not cuts. That is what Sweden needs, what the current situation requires and what the government stands up for at this time.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-106	Mr President, I would like to Let me first confirm that it honours the Prime Minister that we should at least talk about the refugee situation that needs to be addressed. Now I want to go back to the differences between the arties and the follow-up of the election movement, where Stefan Löfven is a bit stuck. In the run-up to the election, Stefan Löfven said that Bromma Airport would not be closed-- it would threaten the jobs. The Stockholm Chamber of Commerce had calculated a job effect of approximately 24 000, and Trollhättan is one of the locations that would be cut off from connections with many parts of the country that do not fly to Arlanda. Then came the election and the formation of the government. Then we saw, most recently this Sunday, Gustav Fridolin talking about the tracks after Bromma airport. It is an example of promise deviation from Stefan Löfven, and it is an example of parliamentary decision that has gone against Stefan Löfven. Twice, the Swedish Parliament has issued announcements to the government to comply with the call not to close Bromma airport. I would now like to ask the Prime Minister how this is going. How does the Prime Minister lead the government's work on this issue? And, above all, how does he respect decisions made in this House, to which he responds?
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-109	Mr President, I would like to As Anna Kinberg Batra usually points out, there are rules on how issues are dealt with. The government deals with announcements just like any other government. In this case, I think it is more important to discuss the policy itself – the content. You can enjoy Bromma airport and traffic and accommodation. However, we have heard one thing for many years in the Stockholm area, namely that far too little is being built. So little is being built that we are missing out on a growth equivalent to about SEK 20 billion. We are talking about the Stockholm region. The industry has been pointing this out for a long time. Business has also pointed out that we need better communications, and I agree with that. Then, as far as Bromma is concerned, the question is this: Would there be a point in thinking about having, instead of having a semi-small airport on one side of town and a half-large on the other side of town, having a large airport that actually becomes an internationally viable airport – and at the same time building housing. Is it possible to do both? I think it is worth considering the question, and that is why we have appointed a person to review it. We will have the issue properly highlighted so that we can both build housing and ensure that we have better communications. There are more apartments here, but it is also intended for better communication opportunities for the Stockholm region. We're gonna grow, not shrink. Now it is the end of the policy that meant that there were no apartments built. They're going to be built. However, you say no to housing investments, Anna Kinberg Batra. My question is therefore: why do you say no to housing investments when they are so desperately needed? They are needed for older people who are going to work and for young people who want to leave home. Why do you say no to housing investments?
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-114	Mr President, I would like to I think that many people around the country who follow the debate, both individuals and entrepreneurs, just got quite worried about Stefan Lövven's message. I didn't understand it. Clearly it wasn't. It was not clear leadership, and that is what one has the right to expect from the country's Prime Minister. To lead a government in a country like Sweden means to have a responsibility to implement regulatory simplifications so that we get many more housing. There hasn't been much of it from Stefan Löfven, and it would have to do that. It also means being able to give clear information about how Sweden manages the jobs and meets the challenges around us. That is what the Prime Minister title actually means, that is, a responsibility to lead and give clear answers. Otherwise, it's just a title – as the Deputy Prime Minister's title.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-116	Mr President, I would like to As I said earlier, the differences in policy are clear. You are once again standing there with tax cuts and cuts, Anna Kinberg Batra, and that is why you must cut back on housing investment. For you have no means to do so, for you would rather lower taxes. This government has really started a job agenda. We are calling for investment in housing, in railways and in roads. We are calling for investment in new products, goods and services so that companies actually sell. It requires innovation, venture capital, energy and exports. It also requires job skills so that people can actually get the jobs that exist. Unfortunately, you are also cutting down on skills efforts. While we invest in competence and education, the Moderates cut back on competence and education. It will keep people in unemployment. It's the facts-- read your own budget and compare with ours, and you'll see it. But you are welcome to change your mind, Anna Kinberg Batra!
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-119	Mr President, I would like to No party preacher – I look forward to seeing this realized. The chaos of immigration policy we are witnessing at the moment has consequences. There is nothing in what Stefan Löfven said in his speech or in what he has said in any other context lately that will somehow reduce the influx of people to Sweden. Nearly 10,000 people have arrived in the last seven days — nearly 10,000 people. It is likely to increase further. This means, as we have mentioned before, that there is a huge gap in the government's budget. We don't know how many billions it's underfunded with. Stefan Löfven may know, but I don't know. It is likely, however, that there are a great many billions. The government has already raised taxes by 30 billion. In practice, the surplus target has been abandoned. You raise the home service fee, and you degrade the ROT and the RUT. Generally, eight out of ten households in the country are doing worse. Then we can ask ourselves what more to do to finance the gigantic hole in irresponsible immigration policy. What is it that should stand back from all the fine Stefan Löfven has stood here and talked warm for? Who will pay for this irresponsible immigration policy, Stefan Löfven? Let me conclude by quoting Stefan Löfven:. Politics has real consequences in people's everyday lives. There are many people who will notice it now, Stefan Löfven.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-124	Mr President, I would like to Let's get one thing straight first. The Swedish Democrats have been against refugees ever since the party was formed, with its roots in the white power movement and the neo-Nazi movement. You've been from day one, Jimmie Åkesson. It doesn't matter what the situation is or how many are coming. You are not against a large number of refugees; you are against refugees at all – point.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-125	You express a concern, Jimmie Åkesson. I'm worried too. The difference between you and me is that I'm doing something about it. The difference is that we are acting very clearly in the European Union and, as I said, we have taken partial victories to get a redistribution between the countries of the European Union. All EU Member States must shoulder their responsibilities. I've been working on that consistently for a year. We're a long way from where we're supposed to be, but we've taken partials. We'll keep working on it. You're against it. The difference between you and me is that I say that we should have a shared responsibility also in Sweden. The municipalities must actually share the responsibility. This applies to all municipalities – even the more wealthy, who are doing too little today. You're against it, too. The difference between you and me is that I provide funds for the municipalities to be able to handle this in a sensible way, while you withdraw funds. You have a message for Sweden's municipalities, and that is that they should have less resources. In this situation, which is so difficult for authorities, for municipalities, for county councils and for civil organisations, we are all helping and trying to do our best. A few days ago we had a good collection under the title Sweden together. I do not deny that this is a difficult situation, but we are doing something about it. Like the Swedish Democrats, it is not possible to say: we can close our eyes. These don't exist. We deduct SEK 90 billion from the municipalities and we will see how it goes. It is irresponsible, but it is quite typical of the Swedish Democrats.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-130	Mr President, I would like to I don't think Stefan Löfven thinks refugees are good, because people are fleeing misery, war and other things. Of course, the fewer people can do it, the better. Refugees as a concept are at least not something you are in favour of. That seems reasonable to me. The difference between you and me, says Stefan Löfven. Yes, the difference between me and Stefan Löfven is that Stefan Löfven says: We can do this. Sure, it's an effort. It's gonna be hard for a while, but we can do it. I say that the situation is totally unsustainable. We can't do this. We haven't been anywhere near making it before. And with the current situation, we will not do so. The difference between me and Stefan Löfven is that Stefan Löfven takes money from the aid and from the welfare and spends it on grants and housing for immigrants in Sweden. I take money from the aid to put it in real aid in the immediate vicinity of the refugees. There's an essential difference between me and Stefan Löfven.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-133	Mr President, I would like to It is, of course, in order to have fewer refugees that we also have to work on the crises that cause people to flee. That is why we need to have a three-dimensional perspective on this: it is the international, to act in order to stop the crises. We need to stop the carnage. It is also to make sure to help more down there on site. It is the European Union that all the Member States of the European Union must shoulder their responsibilities. Otherwise, as I said in my speech, the situation will be unsustainable. But it is also a joint responsibility at home in Sweden. But what do the Swedish Democrats really do? Well, you're back to pulling resources away from the municipalities, who need the resources more than ever. The refugees don't disappear, Jimmie Åkesson. They're there. It is human tragedies that are taking place. Then we have a duty to take care of those who are here. It's called empathy. Look up that word!
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-135	Mr President, I would like to I greatly appreciate the commitment the Prime Minister shows in finding common ground to solve the very difficult situation that we are facing in Sweden. But there is also my concern, because it is crucial for us to be able to resolve the situation by ensuring that the people who are now coming can get to work. We often hear the Prime Minister talk about investments in jobs. He's an expert at inventing new words. It's about catapults and offensives, but it doesn't matter how resourceful he is in finding new words. His policy in this area will not be any better for that. While Stefan Löfven is doing a little bit here and there with what he calls business ventures of a few hundred million, he raises the tax on jobs and entrepreneurship by 28 billion. Or to be specific: It is more than SEK 16 billion more expensive to hire a young person, while he spends a few million on export offensives. The difference in size between the government's so-called investments and tax increases is devastating. In the past, the government has rightly been criticised for having difficulty keeping its promises. But if it is a promise that Stefan Löfven is good at keeping, it is to raise taxes more than they have promised and then raise additional taxes than those on which they went to elections. To the companies Stefan Löfven gives a few million but takes back billions. Stefan Löfven! Can you explain to me how 28 billion in increased taxes on jobs will be able to give more jobs to those who have come here as refugees from Syria?
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-140	Mr President, I would like to The people who come from Syria, as well as those who already exist here in Sweden, need some basic things. They need housing. Some of them need training. They need help into work and support. It could be internships. That's why the government has really started the start-up work. It is this government that has introduced a much earlier SFI training, already at the asylum accommodation. It is good to learn the Swedish language. It is this government that talks with the social partners about how business and employers can receive more trainees, so that they can both learn Swedish and get in touch with the world of work. It is this government that has introduced validation so that those who come here can have their knowledge tested and also know what further training they need. It is this government that ensures that these educational opportunities exist. That's why we're investing in the knowledge boost. The problem with Anders W Jonsson and the Center Party is that you lower taxes so that you have to cut back on education. What about more work when people do not get the right to education? Why are you in the Center so keen to reduce resources to regional colleges, for example? Why are you doing this? Is that good? Why does Anders W Jonsson want to cut back at Mälardalen University, Dalarna University and Gävle University? Does it provide people with better opportunities to face a situation in the labour market? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We must invest now, and then it is not in tax cuts. I stand up for the tax increases that we have made, which means, among other things, that a person who earns 50 000 kroner a month receives 30 kroner more in tax. I think that man is taking that tax increase because here it is a question of investing. We're investing for the future of the country. The tax cuts have been tried, and they were completely unsuccessful.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-147	Mr President, I would like to And Stefan Lövven's employment policy is tested by expert authorities and other government agencies and is condemned entirely. It leads to fewer jobs, not least for those who have just arrived in Sweden. The crucial thing in this discussion is, however, sole entrepreneurship, small cleaning firms, carpentry companies. Four out of five jobs are created in these companies, not by Stefan Löfven and the Government Office. When I travel around Sweden I do not meet anywhere a small business owner who comes up to me and says: Listen Anders, it is far too cheap to hire. We'd need higher taxes. And I'm pretty sure no one has said that to Stefan Löfven either. In a situation where we have many people fleeing for their lives here to Sweden and we know that the key to integration is that they get into work, the question remains: How can there be more jobs because the young guy from Syria will suddenly be 58 000 SEK more expensive to hire per year?
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-151	Mr President, I would like to I have to remind you again – it feels a little odd to have to do it almost once a week – that we had a situation where the taxes were reduced according to your model. The opportunities for people to get into education shrunk and shrunk. The youth worker's contribution cost SEK 110 billion during those years. What was the result of SEK 110 billion? Yes, there was higher youth unemployment. Was it worth the price? How much more are you going to pay for higher youth unemployment? Youth unemployment became higher, Anders W Jonsson, because the business community is demanding higher skills, not lower skills. And it is not possible to tax itself to higher skills, but well to lower ones. Even if you reduce the tax in any way, the young man or woman will not be employed if the entrepreneur sees that he or she does not have the right skills. We need to invest in education.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-154	Mr President, I would like to Prime Minister Stefan Löfven! Unfortunately, we have a long way to go to real equality between women and men in Sweden. The income gap over a lifetime is several million crowns. There are many reasons for this. One important reason is that women work part-time more often. Most people who work part-time in Sweden are women. Many would like to work full - time if they had the opportunity. We also see that part-time work provides lower incomes when working and lower pensions, sometimes really low pensions. We are now taking some steps to do something about this income gap. We have a deal to get more equal parental insurance. We would like to go further and further than that deal. But it is also absolutely necessary to do something on the issue of full time in order for us to succeed in this. The government realizes that. The 2014 Government Declaration states that full-time work should be the norm in the labour market. But you are not prepared to legislate. I'm sorry about that. It had reached the private employees as well. Instead, they want to do so through collective agreements in Sweden's Municipalities and County Councils. Then you reach all those who work in welfare. But now the Social Democrats seem a little unclear in Sweden's Municipalities and County Councils. Will this really be realized? It would be very unfortunate if you could not keep what you promise about the right to full time in municipalities and county councils. Prime Minister Löfven! You are not only Prime Minister; you are also Chairman of the Social Democratic Party. Is it not the case that we should keep this promise in Sweden's Municipalities and County Councils and that together we should ensure that all those who work in welfare and who want to work full-time should have the opportunity to do so? We're ready for it. I hope you stand by the promise.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-158	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mr Sjöstedt for reminding him that I am both Prime Minister and Chairman of the Party. I am pleased that we are presenting the first budget in which the policy has shifted from a situation where women consistently lost, as it was in the budgets of the previous government. Now we can see that women consistently benefit from the budget, and I am very proud of that. We do several very good things. In particular, we are increasing staffing in elderly care; within it there is one of the most fundamental causes of gender gaps and that, for example, women are getting sick leave to a much greater extent. Two thirds of those on sick leave are women. This is due to the reductions that have taken place in the common sector. Let's invest there. We're adding more staff. Then we will also make sure that more women can go healthy from work. We invest in maternity care and mammography. We do a lot of good things. We will also ensure a better distribution of parental insurance, so that another month is tied to each parent. This will result in a more equal take-up of parental insurance and thus better gender equality. It is obvious that full-time work should also be the norm for women. What is the difference between us, I think, is that I am happy to do this in conjunction with the social partners, because I believe more in the solutions where the parties sit down and think about how it will work. Work organisation discussions on how to organise your job will be required. We already have some good examples. Nynäshamn has done it its way. Other municipalities have done differently. I'd like to let them have that freedom. Yes, our word stands firm. Through negotiations in Sweden's Municipalities and County Councils, where we now have the majority, will of course be offered full time. However, I must also respect the fact that the issue will then be resolved practically in each municipality. That's how it's done.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-163	Mr President, I would like to I thank Prime Minister Löfven for his answer. I hope that it has straightened out all the question marks that have existed in Sweden's Municipalities and County Councils. We will do what we have promised. That's good, because it's all those who work in welfare worth. I am proud that we are finally presenting a budget that is feminist. It was a long time ago that Sweden saw such a budget; it was at least nine years ago. It is so much better, especially for those with low pensions and for single parents. For once, they are winners of a Swedish state budget, and I am proud of that. But we can move on. There's a difference between right and left. One more step is taken in Stockholm municipality. In this red-green municipality, we are going to remove the general fixed-term, say there, remove the insecurity that exists when you can go on a substitute route after the substitute. Stefan Löfven! Are you prepared to do the same in more red-green municipalities, to urge your party colleagues to remove the general fixed time and create secure jobs for those who work in welfare?
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-167	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that we have a consensus on gender equality. It's extremely important. Equality between women and men is not only morally right but also economically smart. Yes, we will work in every area to increase equality in society. I am proud to say, wherever I am in the world, that I am leading the world's first feminist government.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-168	This does not mean that everything will be perfect from day one. No, it's a patient job, but we're going to an equal society. Of course, the abuse of fixed-term contracts must cease. That is why we now have a proposal at national level that should also take account of the views of the parties on this issue. We're gonna figure it out. The abuse of fixed time must be removed.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-170	Mr President, I would like to Stefan Löfven raised a very important issue, namely housing policy and housing construction. It is important for all young people to be able to move from home and for those who come to Sweden to be able to get a place to live once they leave the tent camps. It is important for jobs, welfare and the economy. So the perspective is quite right. There's too little building. Fifty thousand apartments will be built this year. It is too little, but it is still more than the 30 000 that were built in 2006, when the Social Democrats last ruled. The 50 000 are an effect of the measures taken by the Alliance Government. A number of bodies have examined how more housing can be built: IFAU, OECD, European Commission, IMF, World Bank, Financial Policy Council and Government's own expert authority Boverket. And imagine that none of them point to housing subsidies as the solution! Everyone, including our own authorities, points out rental regulation and the over-regulated Swedish housing policy as the main problem. The planning economy is recognized. The school book says that government price regulation leads to shortages, queues and the black market. The Swedish rental market is currently characterised by shortages, queues and the black market. The price of a black apartment in Stockholm has never been higher. It is nine years in Stockholm's housing queue to get an apartment through the housing agency. It takes longer to get a dwelling through Stockholm's housing agency than it took to get a Trabant in the old DDR. We have to get up the housing building, Stefan Löfven! It is time to liberalise.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-174	Mr President, I would like to I appreciate the joke! But unfortunately, Jan Björklund, you yourself have been in the government for eight years. It is your policy that has led to us being where we are. Let's get a move on. It is absolutely right that the rules need to be simplified. That is why we are moving forward with the work of the previous government to simplify the rules, which we think was a good thing. We are now removing a part of the construction process. It's about the county boards. That's where we make four and a half months, maybe up to six months, what do I know? But we know that the support that existed for construction before you removed it worked. It has been investigated and evaluated by Boverket, and it produced results. What we are doing is not only simplifying the rules and short-term processes for managing building permit documents, but also stimulating the construction of, not least, rental rights, because it is rental rights that are needed. Small rental apartments are needed for young people who need to leave home and finally start their adult life, but also perhaps for older people who need a small dwelling. If we were to liberalise renting now, everyone would understand what it would lead to. If we have a shortage of housing in relation to how many people want a dwelling, where does Jan Björklund think the rents go then, up or down? It is so simple, and it is so tragic to hear that there is only one solution for Swedish young people, namely lower wages and higher rents. Is it leading Sweden forward? We need to invest more, not least in housing. That is what business, young people and older people are asking for. We will invest and build and not fear the future!
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-177	Mr President, I would like to That's so typical. I describe a social problem and propose a solution, and Stefan Löfven takes the line and repeats the social problem. I know it's not built enough. That's why I asked the question. The question now is what to do about it. All the expert authorities in Sweden involved in this and, above all, all international bodies say that it is not subsidies that are the solution. The government has now set a target for housing construction in the coming years. That objective shall be achieved by means of subsidies. Remember, 50 000 apartments are being built this year because of the Alliance's policy. Now the government is going to add a lot of billions. What's the target? The government says the target is 50,000 a year. It will therefore be built just as much in the future with subsidies as without subsidies. Then why should we have the subsidies? More housing is needed than what is being built now. That's the point. It is time to liberalise the Swedish housing market. It is time to leave the socialist solutions on which Sweden's housing policy has built – under various governments over the decades, to be recognised. We all have a partial responsibility in what has been. But now we have to look to the future. It is time to liberalise the Swedish housing market.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-180	Mr President, I would like to It is absolutely right that we should look to the future. That's what's being done now. It must mean that quite a lot of people feel confident with the government when we see the construction cranes. It can't be that people are now afraid. It's good that we see more construction cranes. We need more apartments. It's already been evaluated. In addition to the regulatory simplification and shorter construction processes, the support that we have now launched has been tried since before, and it has proved to be working. What we say, Jan Björklund, is that we need at least so many homes, that is what we have said, and preferably several. What we can imagine is that the aid that we are now providing provides plus 15 000. If 50 000 were to be built, 6 5 000 would still be built. If 60 000 is built, 75 000 will still be built. The question to Jan Björklund is: Is it better or worse? I think it's better. We need to invest in more housing.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-183	Mr President, I would like to People are fleeing war and persecution to an extent that we have not seen since World War II. The situation is acute, as the Prime Minister mentioned in his speech. According to the Swedish Agency for Civil Protection and Preparedness, the situation in the country's municipalities is very strained as a result of the refugee crisis. Many municipalities note that they will not be able to cope with the situation if current developments continue. School, social services and housing supply do not withstand the pressure. Many municipalities report that they will not be able to meet the requirements of the legislation. This means, in practice, that vulnerable children and families are at risk of harm. The Christian Democrats have stated that we need to take measures to reduce the search pressure against Sweden. If all refugees seeking help are to be given a humane reception, if the social climate does not harden yet more, if we are to be able to protect an open and human society, development cannot continue. We must move other countries to take greater responsibility. The Christian Democrats want to conduct a migration policy with both the heart and the brain. To this end, we have proposed, among other things, a system of safe countries to shorten the processing time of the Migration Agency and temporary residence permits. People fleeing war and persecution are not helped by a prime minister fleeing reality. That is why I ask the Prime Minister: what is the plan to reverse developments? Are you prepared to introduce a system of safe countries and to introduce temporary residence permits?
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-187	Mr President, I would like to The strategy is in three parts. There is a whole thing in this that we need to see. The best thing we do to ensure that people do not have to flee at all is to attack the cause of their escape. It's the war and the conflicts. That is why, not least, the European Union must be much more active and toe-toe-toe so that, above all, the United States and Russia assume their responsibilities, sit down and discuss and start a dialogue that can lead to negotiations so that we can stop the carnage. It's number one. Number two is to ensure that, in the immediate world, we strengthen support for those refugees. I have now met with the Heads of Government from Lebanon, Iraq, Jordan and also Iran to discuss: what is it like now in the outside world? Everybody knows. It is the same when we meet the UNHCR and hear from the World Food Programme. There's not enough resources right now. It must be done so that fewer people are forced to flee. Then there is the European Union and Europe as number three. That's where I've been working purposefully for a year. We have had a success in that we have been able to reallocate first 40 000 and then 120 000. But I'm not happy with that. We must do more so that all Member States assume their responsibilities. Then there is the question at home that all municipalities have to shoulder their responsibilities. I assume that the Christian Democrats will also vote on our proposal that all municipalities should be allowed to assume their responsibilities. More concrete here at home is the question: What do the municipalities need now? They need resources. Then we cannot reduce the resources of the municipalities. It is too high a price, dear Christian Democrats, to lower the tax on people who are decently well off and then to say to the municipalities: now you are going to have to manage on your own best you have the energy and the lattice. It won't hold.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-191	Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats share the view that we need to do more to hit the roots of an acute refugee crisis. We want to make more resources available for peace and security operations. We also want to reallocate aid in order to spend half a billion extra on UNHCR's work in the immediate region, which is extremely important. I also share the view that more municipalities in Sweden need to take responsibility. Therefore, given the situation we are in, we think it is reasonable for us to impose a three-year requirement on the municipalities. However, among the proposals listed by the Prime Minister, there are no concrete proposals for how more countries within Europe should take greater responsibility. Our proposals in the Christian Democrats are to introduce temporary residence permits and to move towards a system of safe countries. The Prime Minister does not answer that question. A prime minister who escapes reality does not help people who flee wars and conflicts.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-194	Mr President, I would like to I stand up in real life every day, Andreas Carlson. I do so with precisely the three perspectives that I have just outlined. At home I have said that we must have a list of so-called safe countries. It is clear that the people who come from the Western Balkans are granted asylum in perhaps 2 – 3% of cases. In this strained situation, we cannot say that there is no difference here. I'll put you on a list of safe countries. We have also run it in Europe. Now that discussion is under way, as Andreas Carlson knows. I look forward to us being able to establish such a list. When it comes to temporary residence permits, the Finnish Immigration Service has made the decision on the basis of the legal framework that the previous government was involved in developing. The Migration Agency says that the best establishment for people who come here where we know the conflict is not solved is a permanent residence permit. That's the Migration Agency's assessment.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-197	Mr President, I would like to It has never been so easy for me to choose the focus of a speech in this House. Never before have I been so sad about that. In the last seven days, nearly 10 000 new asylum seekers have been registered in Sweden. It's 10,000 people in just one week. We have never experienced anything like this before in Sweden. Today, there is no sign whatsoever that the influx will slow down in the near future. On the contrary, much indicates that this is something persistent that has happened as a result of the collapse of the EU's external border. We are now also seeing the consequences of non-existent internal border protection. The government is talking about this as a challenge. It is said that it will involve some effort. I think it is a much more appropriate description to talk about crisis and disaster. The limit of what we can do in this regard was passed a long, long time ago. The ultimate proof of this is the complete and total failure of both this government and previous governments in terms of integration policies. The crisis situation that we are currently seeing is in danger of causing our country to collapse. It is a welfare collapse where basic and vital functions in society no longer work in school, care, social services and the like. In several quarters, there is now a warning that municipal activities in several municipalities as a result of this crisis will not be able to meet the requirements of the law. We will also see a collapse in the cohesion of Swedish society, that is, what gives us social control and trust, as a result of increased fragmentation and increased segregation. Mr President, I would like to I have to say that in my a little over 20 years of politics this is the first time that I actually feel hopeless. It has completely lost control, and it has no plans whatsoever to take control. You talk a lot. It's the same flossle and the same nonsense we've been hearing for years. When we had the television debate last Sunday, it sounded exactly the same as it has been doing all these years, despite the fact that the situation is now so radically changed and that every thinking person must reasonably realise that this is not going to last any longer. Mr President, I would like to If we are now to see something positive in this, it is in some sense positive that a few parties have now begun to move, albeit with very small steps, in the right direction. Suggestions for temporary residence permits are good. Suggestions on border controls are good. Proposals for increased supply requirements are good. But this is nowhere near what is enough. And it is definitely not enough just to talk and then, as for example the Moderates in a number of cases, back away from their proposals when the situation is sharp and sharp proposals are put forward at Parliament's table. It is cowardly, it is false and it is irresponsible to act like that. We need to redirect refugee policy so that we can focus resources on the immediate area where the vast majority of refugees are. We need to combine this with a stop to continued asylum migration to Sweden. We need to safeguard the principle of the first country of asylum. It is not reasonable for Sweden to accept refugees from countries such as Germany and Denmark. It's not countries you're running from. Sweden can and Sweden will help refugees. But it does not have to, and it should not, happen with the result that our own society is collapsing. On the contrary, with a responsible and effective refugee policy, we can help refugees while maintaining and developing the welfare of our own country. I am absolutely convinced that sooner or later the other parties in this House will also be aware of this. I'm convinced of that. But the question is how much you have to destroy before you're there. Mr President, I would like to In this crisis situation we have a bourgeois opposition that does not want to rule. They do not want to act in opposition either. It criticises the government's policies and the government's budget in very sharp terms. It is claimed to be harmful to Sweden, that the government has derailed and so on. But so far there has been little interest in doing anything about this harmful policy in practice. We even heard the so-called opposition leader say here just now that if she were to have the government power, chaos would arise. You might think that's a strange starting point. On the contrary, it has been very clear here, not least in recent days, that the case of the so-called December agreement applies only on paper. In practice, Stefan Löfven, Gustav Fridolin, Åsa Romson, Jonas Sjöstedt and the others will carry out major tax increases and general deteriorations for eight out of ten households in our country. We have given the bourgeoisie several opportunities to act, to do something and to bring down this socialist government. We said a year ago that we intend to do what we can to bring down every government that does not take responsibility in immigration policy. This is of course still the case, Mr President. We are here to represent the interests of our constituents, and we are here to do what we can to implement the policies that we have promised our constituents. If you do not have that starting point as an opposition party, you are not an opposition party. Then you're a support party for the government. Mr President, I would like to As a consequence, when the time comes for budget voting in this House, when our own draft budget is likely to fall, we will vote on the Moderates' budget options in the main vote. This means that it will be up to the proof of the other bourgeois small parties, of the Center Party, of the People's Party and of the Christian Democrats. They can choose to follow – at least as bourgeois voters one might think it is natural – or they have to explain to their voters why they prefer Stefan Lövven's socialist budget to a moderate. I imagine they'll have a pretty hard time explaining that. Mr President, I would like to In addition, I would like to give Anna Kinberg Batra and her bourgeois colleagues another opportunity to make a change, even though it may seem a little hopeless. In an interview with Dagens Nyheter in August 2014, the current Finance Minister expressed a great indignation over a seven-year-old vow breach by an individual moderate Member of Parliament. The Minister of Finance felt that it was difficult to understand that a person seized with lies could be allowed to hold heavier positions of trust, and she stated that people had to be trusted. Unfortunately, the Minister of Finance has not lived as she taught. Prior to the election, Magdalena Andersson promised the voters that the ROT deduction would remain. However, in the budget that has been presented, we see a sharp deterioration in the ROT deduction. In a television hearing in April 2014, the current Minister of Finance said that she is obviously behind the surplus target and that she has been chasing Anders Borg for two years because he broke it. The budget proposal now submitted by the Government to the Riksdag effectively abandons the surplus target. In August 2014, the current Minister of Finance in Sweden's Television said: It is very expensive to refuel petrol as it is, and we see no need to increase the petrol tax. The budget proposal now before us includes a substantial increase in the tax on petrol. I could stand here and list a long line of this kind of vow breach. In addition, the government has completely lost control of the costs of migration policy and has presented a heavily underfunded budget. Mr President, I would like to In view of this, I would like to urge the Swedish Democratic Parliamentary Group in accordance with Chapter 13. Section 4 of the Government form that the Riksdag shall declare that Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson and the Social Democrats no longer enjoy the confidence of the Riksdag.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-217	Mr President, I would like to It was not so long ago that we in the government invited to a press conference to explain that the country is facing a crisis situation. We have not had such a refugee situation since World War II. It is an uncertain security policy situation in Europe, and then the Swedish Democrats do as usual. They take the opportunity to say that they will lower all governments that do not do what the Swedish Democrats want. And not only that, but they're going to put a motion of censure on the country's finance minister because she has said that the ROT deduction should remain and then leave it behind. That is exactly what Jimmie Åkesson said, namely that Magdalena Andersson had said that the ROT deduction should remain. The ROT deduction remains, and then the Swedish Democrats will be calling for a motion of censure. You are turning this Parliament into something far below its dignity. You remind me very much of New Democracy when they were here and ravaged. You are talking about the refugee crisis and the difficult situation in the municipalities. Yeah, it's a strained situation. I said in my last speech that many municipalities are on their knees. What do the Swedish Democrats do? Well, then they want to cut back on resources to the municipalities. Tell the municipalities, Jimmie Åkesson, how it will be better if they get less resources when we want to add more resources. Take the opportunity to tell us why you changed so badly in terms of profits in welfare after a few three-course dinners with lobbyists. All of a sudden, you thought it was okay with profits in welfare instead of the money going to the children, to the elderly and to the sick. Why are welfare gains good?
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-219	Mr President, I would like to It started out rather factually, but then one must say that the last thing the Prime Minister said is more reminiscent of New Democracy than I have ever done. It is far below the dignity of this Parliament to argue this way here, but there is, of course, a statesman free to argue as he pleases. Either you do it like a statesman or you do it like something else, and that's not something I'm really concerned about. If Stefan Löfven seriously believes that we are distrusting the Minister for Finance only because of the deterioration in the ROT deduction, the Prime Minister has understood nothing. Yet he says that he understands that we are in a crisis situation. He tells us that he understands that this is going to be a lot of effort in the future and so on. That's exactly what it's all about. Stefan Löfven has lost control. The Minister of Finance has lost control of the economy. On two occasions in this House, I have now asked Stefan Löfven who is going to pay for the underfunded budget that has been presented – all these billions that need to be put forward because it continues to mismanage immigration policy – and he has not answered. All he's saying is that it's supposed to be order. Sure, who doesn't? But what will be the order of things? Yes, it will be by ensuring that all countries in Europe assume their responsibilities. But it doesn't matter, because there are still 10 000 new people here every week and will have part of the Swedish welfare, of the school, of the care, of the care, of social services, of social assistance, of housing and so on. Now we have tent camp in Sweden. That is the reason, Stefan Löfven, for the sharp criticism that we are making of Stefan Löfven, his government and his finance minister. You've completely lost control.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-223	Mr President, I would like to It is strange that the Swedish Democrats do not see what is happening in the outside world. People are running for their lives now. They're running away from death. I visited a refugee camp in Gambela, Ethiopia, in July. I spoke to a woman who told me that she had had eight children. Now she's got three left. In South Sudan she had been forced by armed groups to eat human flesh because they would remove all human dignity from this woman. That's what people are experiencing now. You come here to Sweden and apply for asylum, and you get your application examined. Those who are right can stay, and those who are not right can go back. The question to Jimmie Åkesson remains. Does it get better when municipalities get less resources? That's what you're describing as a problem. How does it get better for municipalities when they get less money? Explain it to Sweden's municipalities!
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-225	Mr President, I would like to What Stefan Löfven doesn't seem to understand is that we save on immigration and invest in welfare. Read the budget one more time and you will understand it. Stefan Löfven talked about empathy earlier today when we met in a different line. I've looked up that word now on Wikipedia– I didn't have any better access, but I hope that's good enough in this context. I'll just read you the first sentence. 中 Empathy (seeking for love) denotes the ability to experience and understand the feelings of other people. Then there is a long article that develops the concept and describes different types of empathy and so on. So the significance has not changed in any way from what I already knew. I thought, since Stefan Löfven brought this up, maybe the meaning had changed somehow. Stefan Löfven seems only capable of empathizing with the people who come to Sweden to seek asylum. That's why he takes money from the millions of people in the neighborhood and spends it on the few who come here. Is that empathy?
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-228	Mr President, I would like to I can begin by giving answers on some issues that have been raised. No, I am not prepared to support the motion of censure tabled by Jimmie Åkesson on behalf of the Moderates. No, I am also not prepared, as Swedish democrats and social democrats did together the other year, to tear up Parliament's decision on the budget as a whole. And no, I am not prepared to rule or be dependent on the Swedish Democrats. The reason for this is political. Let me give you an example. We do indeed have a troubled world. Russia's aggressive policy has in a short time increased tensions in our neighbourhood. It is not just about the annexation of Crimea, i.e. the war in Ukraine, but also about the influence of, for example, various parties through propaganda and using contacts that spread disinformation to act as co-sponsors to Russian interests. In their defence-political motion, the Swedish Democrats say that we cannot do anything to ignore how Russia has rebuilt its military capability. Against this background, I have to ask Jimmie Åkesson why the Swedish Democrats in this troubled time in our absolute neighbourhood say no to building security with others, with N ato.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-231	Mr President, I would like to If Anna Kinberg Batra is not prepared to do any of the things she told us about at the beginning of her speech, and probably none of the other things I have wondered about can be asked what Anna Kinberg Batra is doing here at all. I would have wondered if I had been moderate voters. Is she here to talk about NATO? Yeah, maybe she is, so let's do it for a while. I think that Swedish military alliance freedom has been something very good. Not only the former bourgeois government but also former red-green or red governments have spent a total of 25 years dismantling the Swedish defence. It was believed that when the wall fell there was no longer any military threat against Sweden, and then it was thought that you could milk the defense and spend that money on things that are more important, such as grants and housing for people who move to our country or on other things. Now that the defense has been dismantled to such an extent that we basically have no defence, although there are some JAS planes flying around – we have a goal of a one-week defence in eight or ten years, but the probability that we will achieve this goal is not very high – then you come from the bourgeoisie and say: Now we have to join NATO. I'm not very conspiratory, but you could almost imagine that this was some sort of plan. We completely ignore the Swedish defence so that we can achieve the higher objective of joining the NATO Nuclear Treaty. I'm not prepared to do that. I am not prepared to send young Swedish men and women to fight for Turkey's interests in the Middle East. That is not what the Swedish defence should be doing. It should be devoted to defending Sweden. Instead, let us build a strong Swedish national defence capability.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-236	Mr President, I would like to Thanks to the fact that we Moderates took part in the defence agreement concluded last spring, we produced twice as high increases in defence appropriations as the Finance Minister had proposed. This is an important first step in strengthening Sweden's preparedness for incident and defence of our coast. Throughout the year we have had constructive debates in the alliance parties on NATO, which is the instrument available to build security with others. Jimmie Åkesson does not really answer with anything but to play on people's concerns, now again. NATO takes decisions by consensus, and we in this House decide whether we want to call on Swedish men and women to participate in international efforts. That wouldn't change. On the other hand, we would have a tool to build security with others. If you take the concerns of the outside world seriously, you must be prepared to act responsibly. Playing on people's concerns in the short term makes Sweden weaker in a troubled world. The long-term pursuit of the concerns around us strengthens Sweden, Jimmie Åkesson.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-240	Mr President, I would like to Is it to play on people's fears to note that there are disturbances in our vicinity that may require us to think about upgrading our defence capabilities? For me, it's pretty natural. And the responsibility for a person in a leading political position is to do just that, act on the basis of what it looks like in our world. Both former socialist governments and a bourgeois government – for eight years – have failed to do so. The defence has been milked on resources because it has not yet been needed. Now suddenly, because some Russian aircraft came and broke our airspace, they came up with: Oh then, there is a threat in our vicinity, possibly. Then I think we'll have to arm the defense. It's not serious. It takes a very long time to rebuild the defense. Instead of going as far as doing something so etcetera as joining a military defence alliance, let us upgrade Swedish defence and Swedish defence capabilities. I'd love to talk to Anna Kinberg Batra about that.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-243	Mr President, I would like to 2015 is the year when it will be decided whether we will be able to face the climate threat in time or whether mankind's ability to prevent a full-scale climate disaster is running out of our hands. This is not a time for environmental policy arguments. This is a time of responsibility. All parties must be environmental parties. That is why I would like to ask Jimmie Åkesson a question about the climate, which is not easy. If you go into your website and try to find out what you think about the climate, you have to look for quite a long time, Jimmie Åkesson. During A to Z you will find answers to questions about defence, free trade, Ipred, referendums and part-time unemployment, but not a word about the climate. I had to go back to parliamentary debates and look at what the Swedish Democrats had said there. I found a climate policy that can be summarised in three parts: There are others who have noticed the rise in temperature. People have had to leave their homes because of drought. They are affected by floods, forest fires and dead lands. The climate threat is real. If we do not get to grips with it, any other debate we have in this House does not matter at all at the end of the day. Therefore, I would like to ask Jimmie Åkesson: Is that really what the Swedish Democrats want Sweden to present at the climate summit in Paris?
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-248	Mr President, I would like to The Green Party and Gustav Fridolin not only promised to fix the Swedish school in 100 days if they got the power; in the election movement they also promised better weather. I don't know if we've seen much better weather yet. This summer wasn't great. The last one was much better. But maybe it takes a little more than 100 days to fix better weather- I don't know. I do not know what Gustav Fridolin has read, what debates he refers to. Of course, there is a global situation with a changing climate. It's quite obvious. Then you can ralli over whether you see it at home in your own garden or not, but it is not interesting in this context. It is much more interesting to discuss how we save people who may have to move from their homes, from the countries where they live because they will be flooded and so on. I think it is more important to focus on it than to tax people who live in the Swedish countryside because they need to drive a car to get to work, buy their food, drive their children to and from school or football practice or whatever it is. All regardless of the climate threat, whose wrong climate impact is and so on, it is unfortunately this debate is about in the Swedish parliament and other contexts. It's about better weather, petrol taxes and the like. The only way to change this is through technological development. I think we should focus on research and development. We will focus on improved, enhanced and more efficient climate aid so that those who will be affected by climate change can really get help now with resources to do something about it and prepare for what is ahead. We will also focus on other things in Sweden, other important environmental problems such as the marine environment in the Baltic Sea.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-254	Mr President, I would like to News flash: The Swedish Democrats acknowledge the climate threat. But they have no idea what to do about it. I did not hear a single concrete proposal on how to reduce emissions in Sweden. You're talking about promises, Jimmie Åkesson. If I have understood correctly, you have one promise to your voters: fewer refugees will come to Sweden. It's the only promise you have. But if we look at what causes people to flee, we can see that the Swedish Democrats are completely unanswered. People leave their homes because of droughts, natural disasters and wars that are growing in the wake of resource shortages. But the Swedish Democrats do not want to do anything about the climate threat. You speak well of aid. But you are the only party that wants to give up the 1% target in aid. How are we going to get fewer people fleeing with less support to the world? When the rest of the parties decide on tougher rules for arms exports, the Swedish Democrats stand outside and say: More Swedish weapons out into the world! How will that make the world safer? With your politics, Jimmie Åkesson, there would have been more refugees in the world, not less.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-259	Mr President, I would like to I am not sure that I am able to influence the number of refugees in the world. Of course, it would have been amazing if I had. But I'm afraid I haven't. It is others who have that possibility, those who start wars and the like. We have to understand that. We must understand that we are currently living with a global refugee situation. More than 60 million people are on the run. The vast majority of them do not come to Sweden and knock on our gate. That is why aid is important. If we want to help as many refugees as possible, aid is crucial for them to be able to get help. Because of the situation we are seeing at the moment, although we do not basically want the 1% target, we have put in our budget a framework of aid that is above the 1% target. As on most occasions when me and Gustav Fridolin have stood here and debated with each other, my policy still helps more refugees than Gustav Fridolin's policy does. That's it. It's very simple.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-263	Mr President, I would like to Popularist parties in most countries have some common features. They're putting groups against each other. And no matter what question you ask, you always get the same answer. Moreover, they consistently lack the capacity to take responsibility. So it is with Jimmie Åkesson and his party. He repeatedly mixes the cards away when someone demands him to tell him what his party wants to do to improve integration and make sure that the people who already exist in Sweden will get into work faster. This is always the case when you debate with Jimmie Åkesson. If you ask him about apples, he answers pears. In a debate between Annie Lööf and Jimmie Åkesson on TV some time ago, there were probably many of us who put the evening tea in their throats. After repeated attempts on the part of Annie Lööf, we heard Jimmie Åkesson twisting to avoid having to answer the question: What should we do to make these people get into Swedish society faster? Finally, he said: I do not have to take responsibility for the policies that you have created. In October 2012, he got the same question here in Parliament, and then he replied: I don't need a toolbox, because I haven't broken anything. It is an amazing answer from a party leader of a parliamentary party, as if politicians who claim to see problems would not have to be called for responsibility. Now you can't wiggle anymore, Jimmie Åkesson. What are the other problems that the Swedish Democrats have not caused and that are therefore not going to take responsibility for and come up with proposals for solutions to? What about climate change? What about unemployment? What about the growing sickness rates, children's and young people's mental illness? Or is it only when it comes to refugees who have come to Sweden that you are not prepared to cross two strands in order for them to become more quickly involved in Swedish society and get jobs, housing and education?
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-268	Mr President, I would like to It is an interesting fact that Anders W Jonsson now admits that they have created problems that we then need to solve. Of course, I have no plans whatsoever of not taking responsibility for it. On the other hand, I was not going to do it the way you did. You have completely failed with so-called integration. We have had an integration policy in this country for almost 20 years, and it has only become worse. How many billions have been rolling in that policy I do not even want to think about, but nothing has worked. Then we can either continue to make even more of the same thing, even more subsidised fake jobs and even more – as I believe the Center Party wanted – tax-free zones especially for people with immigrant backgrounds. Ma n even wanted to bring in another 40 million immigrants, I heard the leaders of the Center Party say in some context. You can continue to make even more of what has not worked but has created the problems. Or it can be said that something is fundamentally wrong. Could it be that the problems of integration have not arisen by themselves or out of thin air? Could it be that they have been caused by a wrong policy? I'm convinced of that. I am convinced that today's integration problems are caused by an irresponsible immigration policy. What do you do? The first measure is that it is precisely that, in other words, it takes responsibility for immigration policy. If Anders W Jonsson reads our draft budget, he will see that we spend relatively more money than other parties on Swedish education for immigrants. We invest more in social orientation for people who come here. We invest a lot of money to create jobs, both for Swedes and for immigrants. But the policy of integration that the bourgeoisie and socialists in this country have been pursuing for almost 20 years has not worked. Why should we have more of it? It's irresponsible.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-273	Mr President, I would like to Now we are once again standing here and hearing how the Swedish Democrats completely lack measures to ensure that the people who already exist here – it's them that I'm talking about – will get into society, get jobs and work. But the next time you, Jimmie Åkesson, go out in the media and boast that the Swedish Democrats are going to be a larger party, also report that there are a number of social problems for which you are not prepared to take responsibility at all! We from the Center Party see a wide range of challenges that require political responses. We have concrete proposals in terms of jobs, climate and the environment. Not least, we present on a point-by-point how we will ensure that the people who have come to Sweden enter our society. Unlike Jimmie Åkesson, we will never turn a blind eye to human rights. People on the run have the right to a sanctuary. It's never naive, Jimmie Åkesson, to be human. What is naive is to think that, as a parliamentary party, you can sit and roll your thumbs without making concrete proposals.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-275	Mr President, I would like to It is quite clear that we have different views. I don't know how to interpret this. You admit that you have created problems and that you intend to continue to create problems. It is also a message to the voters. I listed a number of measures that I think are important for people who come to this country to become part of Swedish society. One key is the Swedish language, and another key is understanding of Swedish society. A third key is, of course, work. At the same time, I think that the problem itself somewhere is about the view of integration. We have had large rounds of immigration to Sweden before, but we have had no integration policy. In fact, integration worked much better in Sweden long before we had any integration policy. Could it be, Anders W Jonsson, that integration policy is the problem? It could be.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-279	Mr President, I would like to I'd like to start with a quote: The resources of the school system should be used to improve the quality of schools and not be distributed as a profit. Swedish school is turning into a billion-dollar industry where companies invest money and take home profits that in any other company, including through lower teacher density and higher percentage of unauthorized teachers, gains that can also be moved abroad. But is school really like any other company? We don't think so. ..................................................... Does that ring a bell, Jimmie? It should. That is a quote from your party's school policy programme. It was an example of the opposition to profits in welfare that you went to elections on. This school policy programme remains on your website, so I guess it still applies. Nevertheless, I note that, since the elections, you have completely changed policies. No to profits in school and welfare has become a yes to profits in school and welfare. I think I know what this is all about. It coincides with the fact that after the elections you have had a series of meetings with representatives of exactly those who will be rich in our common welfare. You have met the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, you have met Almega and you have had direct meetings with the venture capitalists. And now you're going to save the profits of those who enrich themselves on preschool children, refugees and the elderly. You owe the voters an explanation. They have a right to know why you've changed your mind. How did you become best friends with the venture capitalists? How you doing, Jimmie? Why did you fool the voters? And another thing: Can you guarantee that you have not received any money from those who benefit from changing politics, either locally or centrally, or through other detours? It is up to you to answer those questions.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-285	Mr President, I would like to We have had this discussion about how welfare should be conducted and who should carry it out on many occasions. It is well common ground that the Left Party is precisely the most critical of anyone other than the municipality, the landpath or the state performing activities in the welfare of this country. And you might think so. That is a perfectly legitimate view. This has been the case in Sweden and in many other countries where freedom of choice and people's freedom are quite limited. I do not share that view. I think it's very good that we have a coherent school – to take that example. I think it is very good that the number of free schools can be limited, especially in smaller municipalities where a large number of free schools risk undermining the resources of the municipal school. Then you can have a bad school and a very good school. I even think it might be good to have a municipal veto that we have discussed in different contexts. I think it might be a good idea to limit profits in some form, so that there are no excess profits that can even be transferred to tax havens in other parts of the world. I have not changed my mind, Jona Sjöstedt. When you say it, you're lying, or you've misunderstood something very radical. What we have done, on the other hand, is that we have saved hundreds of thousands of people in this country from left-wing, socialist policies aimed at basically abolishing all private welfare that hundreds of thousands of people in this country today depend on, appreciate and want to retain. That's what we've done. We haven't changed our mind.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-289	Mr President, I would like to You can see that this is a sensitive issue for the Swedish Democrats, as sensitive as when we discussed your youth union or something else that you, Jimmie Åkesson, do not want to talk about. That's because you've said two different things. You went before the election around Sweden and said that profits in welfare are bad. Then the companies will stand in line with you and persuade you, and now you will save their profits by laying down the limits that would allow us to get things right in the welfare system. That is what I call lying to the voters. That's what I call pretending one thing before the election because it's popular and then showing something else afterwards. You refuse to answer the question of whether or not you have received money. I think the voters have a right to know if they paid to get your votes. It also says something about you as a party. You are prepared to sell out the pensioner and preschool child in a hurry to become part of the political elite and be close to big business. It's the Swedish Democrats.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-291	Mr President, I would like to This is so out of date that it becomes almost comical. I don't know how to answer that. No, we haven't got any money from big business. No, we haven't changed our minds. And no, I haven't seen any queues outside our office where big money is waiting to persuade me or anyone else to run their errands. Because that's not true. It hasn't happened. On the other hand, meeting interest groups, meeting representatives of different types of interests in society, is my job and that of other politicians. Of course, we meet people who have links to business, but also those who have links to trade unions, agriculture, rural issues, European policy and whatever it may be. But it is of course our members who decide what policy we should conduct in the Swedish Parliament. That's exactly what I just said. I clearly described how we view profits and private performers in welfare. It is not at all unclear, and I do not think anyone but Jonas Sjöstedt believes and thinks so.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-294	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask you a few questions about immigration. We know what the Swedish Democrats think. It is pointless to just stand and bark at each other, but I would like to hear how they reason on a couple of points. Your entire budget, Jimmie Åkesson, is based on a very sharp reduction in immigration, and that is to happen extremely quickly. You say that immigration should be reduced by 95%. Now the forecast is 150,000, which is more than ever. This means that more than 140 000 of them should be rejected. Sweden has signed the UN Convention on Refugees, and we have signed the EU's directive on protection. A very large part of those who are now coming meet the criteria of these directives. We in Sweden have some rules that could be removed if you wanted to, and then the number would decrease slightly, but the majority most likely meets the protection criteria. We should remember that the United Nations Convention on Refugees was established after the Second World War because European countries had refused to accept Jews fleeing the Holocaust. An obligation was introduced for countries in Europe to accept refugees under certain criteria. A country cannot refuse it. The EU's basic directive on protection has its origins in ethnic cleansing in Bosnia and so on. An obligation or commitment was introduced for countries in Europe. The majority comply with these directives. What, Jimmie Åkesson, are you going to do to stop all the people who meet the criteria in these directives?
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-298	Mr President, I would like to It is quite right that all the international rules and agreements governing refugee policy and how we deal with the refugee situation have come about from the perspective of the respective situation. Jan Björklund himself mentions the Geneva Convention and some other examples. That's a little bit of the point here. That's adapted to a completely different situation. That is not adapted to the collapse of our external border with the rest of the world and the fact that we now have 10 000 people a week asking for asylum in Sweden. The whole of the international regulatory framework must then be reviewed and adapted to the new situation. I'm willing to, because this won't last any longer. Anyone understands it can't go on like this. One might think that this is a temporary peak as a result of the war in Syria. A lot of people think so. I hear it all the time in the debate; right now there is war in Syria, and that is why there are so many coming. Of the 10,000 arriving in Sweden in the last week, not even a third is from Syria. They come from other parts of the world. Of course it has to do with Syria, but above all what we are seeing right now is that the EU's external border has collapsed and we no longer have internal border protection. That's why it looks like it does. People want to go to Sweden. People want to go to Germany. That is why we have what we have today. I believe that we must make use of all the legal bases and seize all the opportunities available to put an end to asylum immigration. We want a referendum on the continuation of asylum immigration so that the Swedish people can have their say on this issue. But until then, we need a stop. If Jan Björklund does not think it is possible or if Jan Björklund does not want it, I have full respect for it, but my analysis is that we have long since passed the limit of what we can do. Now we have to do something. That's the responsible part.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-303	Mr President, I would like to Jimmie Åkesson gave the same speech as he always did but did not answer the question. I know you're against refugees, Jimmie Åkesson, but as you said, a third, give or take, comes from Syria. They have grounds for protection under the Conventions. Then there are a number from elsewhere in the world who also have protection reasons and a number who certainly do not have protection reasons, and they will eventually be allowed to leave Sweden. One third of the 150,000 is 50,000, the ones that come from Syria, but you should say no to them too. On what basis? Your budget, which will be valid from 1 January, in a few weeks' time, assumes that the whole world will renegotiate the Geneva Convention, otherwise Sweden will withdraw from it. That's the meaning of your message. It's incredibly dramatic. Even Viktor Orbán's Hungary has not done so. We will make all international commitments to meet your budget. It won't happen, and you know it. Your budget is one big air castle.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-305	Mr President, I would like to It's not as simple as Jan Björklund trying to make it sound. In all the international rules, there is a fundamental principle of the first country of asylum. Sweden is very rarely the first country of asylum. For example, people make their way through Turkey, and then through country after country, to Sweden. You don't run from Germany to Sweden. You don't run from Denmark to Sweden. Sweden is to a very small extent the first safe country for refugees from Syria or from other countries in that part of the world. That's what's so important now. But now, unfortunately, Germany, Sweden and a number of other countries have thrown these important and decisive international rules at the landfill and are pursuing irresponsible policies. Unfortunately, that is the case. That's the foundation. We need to refocus refugee policy in order to help refugees. It is crucial for us to be able to help as many people as possible in the global situation we are currently seeing.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-308	Mr President, I would like to You usually talk about the importance of protecting Swedish culture and our common cultural heritage, Jimmie Åkesson. But I wonder what your word really is worth. When we Christian Democrats in Parliament had brought with us a united alliance to preserve one of our fine cultural traditions, the right to celebrate school leaving in the church, the Swedish Democrats voted against. You stopped the suggestion that certain confessional elements could be accepted at graduation or celebration in the church. The issue had been addressed in the Education Committee. There was a majority in favour of the Alliance proposal. But at the final adjustment, you backed down and stopped the proposal. As a result of the actions of the Swedish Democrats, we are still in the same uncertain position as we have been in recent years regarding school leaving in the church. As we approach Advent and Christmas soon, we will have new completely unnecessary debates about which verses in hymns one should be able to sing, if one is to mention why we celebrate Christmas– yes, the question marks are several. Jimmie Åkesson, what happened at the meeting when you decided to stop the proposal? Why do you not want to support a proposal that would ensure that school leaving can be celebrated in the church?
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-312	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that other parties than the Swedish Democrats also seem to be burning for this issue. Already ten years ago we launched a campaign that we called the Flower Call, or something like that. We went country and country around and talked about how important it was to preserve that tradition, which was already strongly threatened because of the forces that think that Swedish culture, Swedish traditions and such things are not important. Then I heard nothing from either the Christian Democrats or any other bourgeois p artiers. But it is good that attention has been paid to this problem. What happened in that context, I can't answer. I have read about it, just as Andreas Carl on has done, but I cannot answer what happened in detail. When dealing with individual parliamentary matters, things often arise that make it impossible for some reason to support a proposal that may be good in essence but where some detail is bad. But put the proposal forward again, and we'll make sure to fix it!
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-315	Mr President, I would like to It is remarkable that a party leader of a party such as the Swedish Democrats, who claim to have burned for a matter for many years, does not vote in favour of the proposal once the matter is on the table of the Riksdag and is up for final adjustments in the committee. One would once and for all decide to sort this out and end the debate about which verses one can sing, so that one can be in the church and have hooligans and so on. But at the meeting itself, the decision is to be made, the Swedish Democrats back up and stop the proposal. You roll the tape back. Therefore, the uncertain situation will continue now in Advent and Christmas. One will discuss which verses in the psalms one should be able to sing. What do you say to the children and parents who will now not be able to have collections in the church, have lucia trains, sing a hymn or get a few words from the priest because of how you have acted in the Swedish Parliament? What do you say to them, Jimmie Åkesson?
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-317	Mr. Talmman! I say that Andreas Carl on and his bourgeois friends had government power for eight years, and they did nothing about this issue, even though we pointed out the problem on several occasions. That's what I'm saying. I'm sorry about that. Now, after eight years of government power, one comes and wants to do something, and for some reason it does not go through the Riksdag. Then I say, and it's a promise, come on, let's do it!
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-318	Mr President, I would like to In 2007, Syria suffered the worst drought the region had experienced. It lasted three years, and when the war broke out there are already 11⁄2 million people on the run. In the seemingly forgotten conflict in Sudan, 2 million people are on the run. 300,000 have been killed. In its report on the situation in Darfur, the UN states that environmental problems, resource shortages and droughts provide some explanations here too. In East Africa, Sida previously counted on a serious famine every decade. Today the drought occurs every two years. It is the same in Palestine, Lebanon and the entire Horn of Africa. The drought is not the sole cause of war, but where nothing else can germinate has extremism, contradictions and war the easier to take root. Climate change is not a distant threat in the future. It's not just about our children. It's about us. But mankind is not paralysed. We know what can be done. In those parts of Somalia where, among other things, Swedish aid has arrived, drought no longer has to mean starvation. The Swedish Government's contribution to the UN's Green Climate Fund gives strength to the international climate work. And these are important signals for the Paris climate summit. Sweden builds bridges between rich and poor countries. When we are able to live up to the promises made, confidence grows, which gives hope that a workable and accepted climate agreement can come into place. Because we can reduce global emissions, but it can only be done if each individual country does its part. The consequences of emissions are global, but each emission is local. We are now making the necessary investments in order for Sweden to meet its climate and environmental objectives. We will connect Sweden with fast rail. We invest in trains that can go on time, in better public transport and in smart infrastructure. Cars that go on biogas or electricity should not be high-tech for the environmental stakeholders but should be accessible to everyone. Climate-smart small, cheap rentals will be built, and the million-dollar program's residential areas and schools will be renovated. A 100% renewable energy system will become a reality through investments in solar energy, wind power, energy efficiency and smart grids. Farmers will receive support to produce biogas for our cars, and the demand for organic food will meet. Tax shifting should be carried out, so that what is good for the environment becomes cheaper and what is bad for the environment becomes more expensive. This is a policy that provides jobs, technology development and entrepreneurship here and now. It is also a policy that takes climate responsibility for the future. Mr President, I would like to I think I see the outline of a Renaissance. The world's mood is changing. Solving the global environmental and climate crisis is no longer a matter of sacrifice. Sustainability is the path to more attractive, cooler, technologically more advanced, healthy and democratic future when we finally understand that our success depends on our ability to manage our home – the earth. The planet rests on an edge. Where should we look – towards a dead end or towards a sustainable future? This is how environmental professor Johan Rockström put it in this year's most popular summer programme. He describes how what we are doing today and what we are not doing has effects far into the future. It is an insight to have with you when you work with politics, and it is not just a matter of environmental policy. In the area of which I am responsible in the government, school policy, it becomes particularly clear. A cut now has its biggest consequences when today's children leave school and are unable to build their future, get a job and have no power over their lives. It's the same with an in vestment at school. Today it may seem to be a cost in the budget table, but when our children get the time they need with their teachers, get met and listened to, have respect and learn to respect others, learn things, start believing in themselves and can grow to become the adults they want to be, it pays itself over and over again, human and socio-economic. When we say "colan" we like to think about building it, the place where we went. But when the idea moves us on, we remember what we felt when we went there – the friends, a teacher who believed in us – and basically this is what the school is. The student must have confidence in the teacher and meet high expectations that are perceived as honest. The student must dare to take up space in the classroom, try it, do it wrong to do it again and try it again, and only the teacher can build such an environment. This is what makes the teaching job so challenging, amazing and unique. One thing is true regardless of which children we talk about – small or large, children who can spell already in the preschool class or children who have never read a book before their first school day, children who are boys and children who are girls, children who are new arrivals and children who are old arrivals – it is in the relationship between teacher and student that learning arises. That's why the government's investment is so much about how that relationship can be strengthened. Teachers should have good opportunities to do their job, and students should have good opportunities to do their job. Think of yourself! When you are stressed, are you at your best at seeing others, putting yourself in another person's position and understanding how another person thinks? No. Teachers today are one of our most stressed professions, and the very characteristics that are most important to the teaching profession are among the first we lose when we get stressed. That's why the government is investing in the faculty. More are to be employed in the early years, so that teachers have more time for their work. A read-write-count guarantee is developed, so that teachers get more power to deposit special support when they see that a student needs it. Two national tests have been removed, and the remaining ones digitised, so that teachers have more time for learning. Teacher's wages are raised. The Vice-Chancellor is strengthened in his educational leadership. If students are to be able to perform well, they must feel good, but mental illness is increasing among young people. One in five girls often suffers from anxiety, anxiety, or anxiety. It's not something that just happens, it's the result of how society changes. One of the most common reasons why young people are concerned is that they are worried about school outcomes and whether they will be able to get a job in the future. The high youth unemployment rate is a source of concern in primary schools. Others worry about their family's financial situation. When children grow up in poverty, their anxiety is evident, and this is evident in school. As a teacher, it is not easy to reach a student who is concerned about his parents. For this reason, investment in equality – to strengthen the toughest families, to stop caring for sick parents, to also give unemployed or single parents the opportunity to stand up as they want for their children – is also investment to improve the school's chances of succeeding with each student. A majority of students in Sweden find it fun to go to school. They have faith in their teachers. Nine out of ten teachers and students meet each other with respect. But that most people feel that way is not enough. A child who is subjected to bullying is not a figure in the statistics, but a young person who is deprived of his right to grow, develop and feel trust. Learning and the school environment go hand in hand. If self-esteem breaks down, there'll be no good school results. Students have the right to concentrate on their education. You shouldn't have to be afraid of what happens at break. There are probably no more people who experience bullying today than before, but for those who are vulnerable there is no longer an end. In apparently protecting the anonymity of the network, violations continue in the evenings and weekends. At the same time, bullying takes on new forms. So-called execution, a form of blackmail, spreads in secondary schools. Many victims do not tell anyone of shame or fear of further violations. We adults need to take part in the world in which our young people find themselves. It is the long-term, systematic and present work that determines the success of a school. Therefore, the government's investment in more teachers and more time for teachers to do their job is also an investment in a better working environment at school. In schools that succeed in the work against violations and for students, student health is often an engine. From next year, the government will invest 200 million in student health. It is money that should lead to increased accessibility and improved quality. This is particularly important for those who experience the most vulnerability at school today – young girls, young LGBT people and young people with disabilities. Teachers need time to see violations but also tools to act when they see. One of the national school development programmes now being set up is to provide teachers and principals with tools to build security and studyo. It's not a sparkle, it's a temporary bet, until we turn our eyes in another direction. It's about seeing the students. It is a long-term and systematic investment so that teachers and principals receive continuous development and can learn from each other about things like norm-critical pedagogy and how we work effectively against discrimination and violations. Mr President, I would like to It may sound highly qualified, but it's not my intention. That is a statement. Our future is determined by two things: how we manage to face the climate threat and what school we give our children. Then it's not about anyone else anywhere else at any other time. It's about us. It is we who must act on the basis of our knowledge. We have the tools and the methods. We determine how the future is shaped by the decisions we make or choose not to make today.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-339	Mr President, I would like to In January 2014, Gustav Fridolin explained that the reason the trains did not go on time was that the owner of the state had milked SJ on money. This was after SJ in recent years had distributed more than SEK 200 million to the owner. Gustav Fridolin described this policy as a kick in the stomach of all of us who have stood and frozen on a platform. Now the Environmental Party has gained government power and immediately decided that SJ will distribute 1.7 billion in an extra dividend. So that's more than seven times as much. Without going into the climate issue, I note that I do not know that it has become warmer on any platform since the last time. Gustav Fridolin then described it as a kick in the stomach on all train travelers. Now I wonder if Gustav Fridolin can tell us: What is an appropriate description of the Environmental Party's actions in government?
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-342	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Anna Kinberg Batra, for the question! I am particularly grateful for it because I assume that it will open up a discussion with the Moderates from the government on how we give SJ an expanded community mission. Now we have to govern SJ on the basis of the principles laid down and followed by the alliance government. We want – and we have it in our government platform – to expand SJ's community mission and give SJ a new community mission. This could involve directing SJ in a different way than according to the principles that applied previously, which, among other things, regulates what capital should exist in the company. When the issue came up on the table, it was crucial for us to ensure that SJ can manage its investment plan and that capital changes in the company in no way alter SJ's ongoing investments. But it is also important to state clearly that this does not change the possibilities for the government to act later in order for SJ to have the capital needed to operate on the high-speed roads. In these parts we have received assurances both from SJ's management and from the government, which we are part of.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-344	Mr President, I would like to So taking 200 million was kicking in the stomach. To take seven times as much is to take responsibility in Gustav Fridolin's world. I wonder if it is the same in the case of Akademiska Hus. The Green Party expressed prior to the election that the owner's directives would be changed to show that the state real estate company would provide student housing or would be obliged to lease its land for it. However, in government positions, the Environmental Party instead collects 6 1⁄2 billion from Akademiska Hus and gives to other priorities in government positions. Four proposals have been made so far by the Minister for the Environment, including more modern surveying meetings. But when it comes to simplifying detailed plans and actually enabling student housing, the Green Party says no. How will there be more housing by taking 6 1⁄2 billion out of Akademiska Hus and with the Environmental Party in government position?
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-347	Mr President, I would like to I think that one should be able to demand a leader of the biggest opposition party, who aspires to being an opposition leader, some logic in the reasoning. You're talking about the ownership directives for several of the state-owned companies. The government has to act on the ownership directives that in the vast majority of cases are locked down by the Riksdag. In that Parliament, the government does not own a majority. For this reason, we want broad talks. I understand your question that the Moderates are now open to the kind of conversation about various owner directives, for example for SJ, that we have talked about and that they have not previously been open to. Then there was the logic of this. It is you who remove the investment in new climate-smart, small and cheap rentals that ordinary people can afford. You want to remove it. You want to continue to have a housing market where only those who have the right contacts or enough fat wallet can find an apartment. You are removing this in order to afford tax cuts. If you really care about the housing shortage, go back and present another draft budget to Parliament.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-350	Mr President, I would like to I asked the Prime Minister a question earlier on with regard to the under-funded budget submitted by the government. I guess I didn't get an answer-- maybe it wasn't so unexpected-- from the Prime Minister. But now we have another government representative here who may be able to respond. In the future, perhaps 10 000 people each week or more will share in welfare and the like. It is not something that has actually been taken up in the budget. Therefore, it is to be regarded as underfunded. Now the Green Party is in government. This is something new for the Green Party. They have previously performed fluff-fluff and an all-to-all-retorial. It no longer works, because now we must also take responsibility for what we think. Then I simply wonder, Mr President: who is going to pay for the under-financing that is in the budget? What's going to stand back? Is it supposed to happen to motorists in the countryside? Who's gonna pay?
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-352	Mr President, I would like to We have been clear about this: When the Migration Board's forecasts come, we will come back with what funding is possible and necessary to meet the people who are now fleeing Asad's oil bombings, swelling and burning refugee camps and IS terror. We think that Sweden should take responsibility and offer a sanctuary. We will also offer an opportunity for the people who will make our country their own. Therefore, the replicas that Jimmie Åkesson has had with several representatives are interesting about Sweden's non-existent policy of establishment and that people who will have an opportunity to work, contribute and build the country that we have. Sweden has taken responsibility for severe refugee disasters in the past. During the Balkan crisis, we received many people who fled the war in Yugoslavia, in the midst of our most difficult economic crisis, right after the municipalisation of school. It was hard. It was a big challenge. But, you know, as we look at the people who came, we see that they have to a large extent work and higher education. They work, contribute and build the country that Jimmie Åkesson will also represent as an elected member of the Swedish Parliament. I would therefore like to put a counter-question to Jimmie Åkesson. Several times this morning we have heard that too many people are coming. When did the Swedish Democrats say that the reception of refugees is now appropriate? At what time was that the Swedish-democratic line? Was it when you were formed and ran around and heiled at your meetings? Was it when your candidate for justice ran around with iron pipes on the streets of Stockholm? Was it a few months ago before the refugee crisis in Syria entered Europe as well? When did the Swedish Democrats say that on this occasion it is a moderate refugee reception?
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-356	Mr President, I would like to You can ask counter-questions, but perhaps you can do so when you answer the question you were asked. Gustav Fridolin did not do that, and this is something that is common in these contexts, that you do not answer questions. However, we got so much response that Gustav Fridolin says that when the Migration Board's forecast comes, you will, if necessary, find funding for this. My question was not really whether it will be needed and if so, whether you should find funding – it is well understood that you have to – but my question was how and where to find this funding. This does not answer Gustav Fridolin, but he claims that you do not even have an idea of that. But I guess you have to. This prognosis is basically coming at any time. Then you have to take responsibility for it. Stefan Löfven has been out talking about the estimated 150 000 instead of half as many. Surely you must have an idea of what it costs, and you must surely have an idea of where that money should be taken from. Now answer this, Gustav Fridolin: Where are you going to take the money? Who's gonna pay?
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-360	Mr President, I would like to We will also in a difficult situation, with a major challenge and the greatest humanitarian effort in a very long time in Swedish history, be sure to follow sound state financial principles. That goes without saying to our government. We have done this with difficult issues in the past, and we will do so this time too. These are people who need shelter and shelter and who can come in and help build our country strong. I note that the question I put to the Swedish Democrats, after hearing the Swedish Democrats say for a few hours that there are too many at the moment, was not answered. The truth is that the Swedish Democrats have never thought that there have been enough refugees. They think that a person who is fleeing is one too many and now has a close-zero principle: No human being should we help in Sweden's Democrats. The truth is that regardless of whether it costs or is an investment for Sweden, the Swedish Democrats say the same thing on this issue as they did when they heiled at their meetings.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-363	Mr President, I would like to In recent weeks we have seen the real power of civil society. Individuals and NGOs have come together in a way that has really made me feel moved and proud to be Swedish. When millions of people flee war, terror and oppression, civil society has stood up for openness, humanism and humanity. People have given to charity like never before. We have seen how humanity lives deep in the Swedish people's soul. But precisely in this situation, the Green Party in government is choosing to abolish the right to deduct donations to relief organisations. This is a betrayal of people's will to help, a betrayal of the organizations that are currently making heroic efforts to feed hungry stomachs and heat cold bodies. The organisations concerned themselves have said that the government's decision will turn the backs of the smaller players in particular. Together, the Red Cross, Doctors Without G, and others, will lose at least as much money as the government claims to get into the Treasury by abolishing the right to deduct, i.e. SEK 250 million. 250 million! So it is twice as much as the government spends on climbing stands and other renovations on the country's school farms in this year's budget. My question to Gustav Fridolin is therefore: Is it really more important for the Green Party to build some climbing positions in individual schools than to help fellow people in need?
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-368	Mr President, I would like to Let me first say that I really share the pride of the humanitarian effort that Sweden and the Swedish people are now making, as Anders W Jonsson expresses. I can also note that the Center Party, the Green Party and the government in many parts see the same challenges and see that we have to face them together and together. I'm glad to be able to have continued conversations about it. With regard to the issue raised by Anders W Jonsson, I can honestly admit that I have not really seen the reality described by Anders W Jonsson. When, as a child, I shuddered a gun for Save the Children, or when I have volunteered in congregations that offer sanctuary for the people who flee, I have never met a single volunteer force or a single person who has put a penny in the gun that has said: Wait a minute! Do I get tax deductions for this? After all, it is not the tax deduction that makes people willing to stand up for their fellows with money if you have it or with time if you have it, but it is because you actually believe in solidarity, empathy, humanity and a country that holds together. The money that we are saving through the reform that Anders W Jonsson is raising will be double compensated via at least as much as planned in support of the refugee camps that UNHCR is responsible for directly in the crisis in Syria and via at least as much in direct support to the Swedish civil society that is now closing up and facing the refugee crisis. So money will go out into the system because those who do the job, those who roll up the sleeves and really stand up now need the resources available.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-373	Mr President, I would like to What is completely incomprehensible is that in a situation where we really need NGOs and civil society to stand up, then the government and the Green Party go in with the announcement that they are withdrawing 250 million, which according to the organisations is more than 250 million in their activities. $250 million means a lot. The Red Cross has what they call food packages for people fleeing Syria. It costs 75 cents and contains rice, beans, oil and salt so that it is enough for one person this month. The policy of the Green Party is thus a reduced opportunity for the Red Cross equivalent food for 3.2 million people for a month. For us in the Center Party, it is so obvious to support and promote the commitment of individual people. Then it is also obvious that you should do what you can to support these organisations. But for Gustav Fridolin climbing positions take precedence over humanity.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-376	Mr President, I would like to No, Anders W Jonsson, now we are actually going to keep track of the numbers. It is de facto the case that in the budget that the government has put on the table of the Riksdag, support for UNHCR's work on refugees fleeing directly from the crisis in Syria is increased. Support is also greatly increasing for civil society, for the NGOs, sports associations and others who are standing up in the crisis that we are now seeing and making the humanitarian effort. It cannot therefore be said that this decision reduces aid or resources, because it is twice as much in the budget submitted by the government. I have full respect for the fact that the Center Party thinks this tax credit is good, but I must admit once again that I have not met the generous, compassionate and empathetic people who give of their money and their time but first ask the question: may I deduct this from the tax? I do not think that is the driving force behind the solidarity we see in Sweden today.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-380	Mr President, I would like to Today, you, Gustav Fridolin, are interviewed in Dagens Nyheter about your desire to collaborate with bourgeois parties on introducing new tax deductions, for example by extending the RUT system. The article also suggests that the Green Party is concerned about appearing as a party on the left. I do not think you should be so concerned; the risk is not so great. If Gustav Fridolin wants to, I can write a certificate that you are not. I see the focus on tax deductions as worrying. That is what we have been trying for eight years, and we both know that unemployment has increased. It has been a rather expensive policy but not very successful. I believe that the long-term concern for reducing unemployment is that we have too low levels of investment in Sweden, both private and public. That must also be said. However, sound public investment also leads to more private investment. Does Gustav Fridolin not see the problem of extending tax deductions even more, that they undermine the tax system and the tax bases, that they often become unfair? We can see how today's RUT deductions mainly go to well-paid people who live in the richest municipalities, but they are used a little by low-income people. It increases the economic injustice in society. RUT deductions are also not very economically effective if you think of a productive economy that invests in what actually develops the national economy. I would like to hear whether Gustav Fridolin thinks it is wrong that we agree in the budget to actually limit – even if there is too little – the RUT deduction, that is to say, to remove pool cleaning and bartenders. Is it not reasonable to pay for such things yourself?
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-386	Mr President, I would like to I think it is important to see that when people come to Sweden and we, in accordance with our international obligations, give people a refuge from persecution and the solidarity that the Swedish people and NGOs show for this to be possible, that we also have to see how we can ensure that the people who come here have the same opportunities as those who previously fled the crisis in the Balkans or Pinochets's dictatorship. It is not only a matter of getting a sanctuary but also of getting a way into work, housing, school and the opportunity to make our country its own. When you take that discussion, it makes sense with a dose of political prestigelessness. You have to look at all the proposals that are on the tables and see what consequences they can have. Let me answer Jonas Sjöstedt's specific question. I think that the limit on RUT that we are doing, which affects 1% of RUT deductions and which means that you cannot get RUT deductions for bartenders at home or pool cleaning, is reasonable. But there are a lot of other proposals concerning industries that can lead us to use resources for longer, that we repair rather than buy new ones, that we have economic development that is based more on services than constant consumption of goods. They also open up new first jobs into the labour market. I see those proposals, and I think they are worth taking advantage of. The Green Party made some such proposals a few years ago. We just proposed a deduction for the repair of bicycles and other gadgets instead of constantly ending up in situations where we buy new ones as soon as something breaks. It is unreasonable that when something breaks, it is almost always cheaper to buy new than to repair. It makes sense if we can reduce these costs while opening up the labour market because more people with low education or who do not yet have Swedish skills enter the labour market.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-390	Mr President, I would like to I can sympathise with the view that we should repair things and have a growing service sector. It is important for climate reasons. But there is experience of these issues. There are countries that have reduced taxes on hairdressers and repairers. But people go and cut their hair when they get long. That's the thing, isn't it? Not that they're supposed to get support to do it. The arguments remain that these solutions have been tried, and it has cost the public purse a lot of money. But unemployment has risen. It is economically ineffective to do these things. It's also unfair. All experience with the RUT deduction shows that there is a redistribution from those who have the least to those who have the most. It also creates many precarious jobs. We know that spending on welfare and construction can create at least as many jobs, increase productivity in society and create secure and secure jobs in a completely different way. I simply do not understand the priority.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-393	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I should admit that I think the comparison with cutting was a little strange. I guess it's one thing to talk about hairdressing and another thing to talk about a thing that's broken. Then you'll be faced with the choice if you need the thing to either repair it or buy a new one. I think it is a completely unreasonable economic logic that it is always cheaper to pick up natural resources from the ground and make a whole new thing instead of repairing it and using it. There our tax system has gone completely bananas wrong. There are many differences between left-wing parties and environmentalists. Jonas Sjöstedt clearly illustrates a difference. When left-wing parties see that a focus on economic policy is not appreciated, they saw every little detail and every single proposal and say that it is wrong. When we environmentalists see that a direction has not led us to where we want to go, we say that it is time to reconsider, that more investment is needed, that taxes need to be adjusted so that more investment can be made, but we do not overturn every proposal made by the bourgeois parties.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-397	Mr President, I would like to Gustav Fridolin should not believe Jonas Sjöstedt. He's wrong. The Green Party appears to be a left-wing party. Now I would like to discuss another matter. Politics is to want, but when you fall into government position, politics is also to be chosen. You can't do everything you want at the same time. The Green Party was founded in the early 80s after the Harrisburg accident. The party is founded in a nuclear resistance. Then we have become more and more aware of the climate effect, which does not cause nuclear power but is caused by other energy sources. Sometimes we have to choose what is most important, namely to combat nuclear power or to combat CO2 emissions. I can congratulate Gustav Fridolin because some reactors are now to be shut down. It's what you've wanted. But now I've read the memo on power reserves that the Department of Environment has sent out. As a result of the closure of nuclear power plants, Åsa Romson's department writes that the following results: In Sweden, a growing share of electricity generation comes from renewable energy sources such as wind and solar energy. This means an increase in electricity generation that is uneven over time. At the same time, nuclear power plants may be shut down. This will increase uncertainty about the supply of electricity. The conclusion is that we must preserve the power reserve. The power reserve is two large oil power plants from old times in Sweden located in Stenungsund and Karlshamn. They are the ones that must now be preserved because nuclear power is being shut down. Is it a good climate policy to keep oil power plants in order to shut down nuclear power plants?
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-403	Mr President, I would like to Let me first say that I have not been an environmental party ever since the Harrisburg accident, but as long as I have been an environmental party, I have been involved in left-wing parties accusing me of being bourgeois and liberals of being left-wing. It shows somewhere that we have the course ready – neither right nor left, but forward. Having said that, Mr President, it is not ever sensible climate policy to dig oil, coal or fossil gas out of the ground and burn it. Most of the known oil, coal and gas that mankind has found must remain in the ground for us to cope with the climate threat. But it is also not sensible to think that just because we are digging up uranium, we are solving the climate problem. As noted in country after country, the solution is to build a fully renewable energy system. Sweden may have the best conditions in the world to build a 100% renewable energy system. Now that we can see the conditions for building more renewable, I am a little surprised by the People's Party for two reasons. One reason is that, as you leave the Alliance so quickly, you want large subsidies to build nuclear power in Sweden. If we count together the subsidies contained in the People's Party budget, you want to use 10 billion tax crowns to build new nuclear power. If we look at this market economy – people's parties and libera tend to like it; there we usually meet in a sensible discussion – we see that the nuclear adventures of a few countries in Europe have shown that it would have been cheaper to use the money to build renewables. There had been more electricity from renewable electricity generation than from nuclear power. The second reason is that the reason why Swedish nuclear power plants now find it difficult to carry themselves is that there have been new international safety regulations following the Fukushima accident. If some of the Swedish nuclear power plants are to continue to operate, major investments must be made to meet safety requirements. Does Jan Björklund think that we should operate nuclear power plants in Sweden that do not live up to the international safety requirements?
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-409	Mr President, I would like to Everyone who listened to Gustav Fridolin heard that he exceeded time but carefully avoided answering the question. So I'll put it one more time. Is it a wise climate policy to keep old oil plants because they want to shut down nuclear power plants?
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-411	Mr President, I would like to It depends on whether the oil plants are running or not. What is interesting is that we can expand renewable energy production in such a way that we thereby build a fully renewable energy system that does not depend on picking up oil, coal, fossil gas or, for that matter, uranium from our soils. I think that is a sensible alternative for us, just as many other countries have done. Jan Björklund had a lot of time left in his speech. He had almost a minute to answer the question I asked, but he rejected it. Does the People's Party really think that Sweden should have nuclear power plants that do not comply with international safety regulations? The Fukushima accident has made new demands on international nuclear power. They would involve major investments in the reactors that the owner now chooses to set up under market economy principles. Does the People's Party think that they should be pushed forward with lower safety standards? That question has to hang unanswered.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-415	Mr President, I would like to Gustav Fridolin talks about the environment. He's talking about taking responsibility for the climate. Sweden will do that; Sweden will take that responsibility. We have almost completely carbon-free electricity production, and there is broad support in this House to move towards a carbon-free vehicle fleet. But I want to talk about a part of our environment that Gustav Fridolin did not mention very much: our open landscape and our countryside, which is currently undergoing a crisis. Every week, five dairy farmers lay down in Sweden. The Swedish dairy farmers cannot be disposed of for their products. Their animal husbandry is better and their costs are higher than in Denmark and Germany. In order to provide a level playing field and save milk production and our open landscapes, farmers must be compensated. That is why we Christian Democrats are putting a strong milk package in our budget – 1 billion in our budget will go to saving production in Sweden and restoring justice in the coming years. In comparison, the government does almost nothing. Is it Gustav Fridolin's view that it is good if the proportion of German milk and Dutch cheese increases in Sweden? Is it really Fridolin's view that it would be right for the environment if Swedish agriculture were to be worn down and removed? I don't think that's right. We Christian Democrats do not think that is right. We need safe, good food produced with care on Swedish farms. In this way, we take responsibility for ourselves and our needs and for our environment, which we are set to manage here. Why, Gustav Fridolin, do you not want to do more to help save the Swedish dairy farmers?
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-422	Mr President, I would like to I am happy to do much more to ensure that the Swedish agricultural industry, milk production and agriculture are saved. We know, to look at this in a global perspective, that in order for us to cope with climate change, global meat consumption cannot continue to increase as it has done. We need to increase the proportion of vegetarians in a global perspective. But we also know, and it is at least as important, that Sweden, with its good soils, cannot be able to be a net importer of meat and milk and other agricultural products. With our good soils, we should rather, for the sake of the climate, export. Rather, we should be one of those who provide the soil with more animal and agricultural products – although global meat production should be reduced. This is the climate context and climate relations. Yes, I would like to support Swedish agriculture. I would like to support Swedish dairy farmers. That is why the budget on Parliament's table includes a reduction in diesel tax, a compensation of diesel tax, for Swedish farmers. I think everyone who listens to this discussion knows that when you go to the position that an environmental party chooses to relax the financial instruments for whoever it is, then you are in the very crisis described by Andreas Carlson and the Christian Democrats. Then you have to make a move. This, of course, is not the long-term solution. There is something we can do here and now, urgently, to ensure that the economic margins of our dairy farmers are improved. Long-term we need to do more. The Prime Minister made it clear in his government declaration that Sweden, for example, must satisfy the need for and demand for organic food. It is rather strange that we have such a great demand for organic food in Sweden that cannot be met by the Swedish agricultural sector. With the right rural programmes and with the right policies, we will be able to meet this and thus get better profitability on Swedish soils.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-427	Mr President, I would like to We are quite far from the situation that Gustav Fridolin wishes – that we should export yogurt and cheese. Today, we are importing more than half. The continuation that we are now seeing is devastating if the government does not do more than compensate for the diesel tax, which is also greatly increased during its term of office. We also want to compensate farmers for their costs of diesel and fuel, but it is not enough to go forward with it as an individual measure. Therefore, we also want to invest a powerful milk billion in the coming years that better meets the challenges described by Fridolin but for which he does not have sufficient tools in the government budget that we have been presented at Parliament's table. Should I therefore interpret your answer, Gustav Fridolin, as that in the future you would rather see Swedish children drinking German milk in schools because your policy does not stop the development that five farmers a week stop?
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-430	Mr President, I would like to I think that Andreas Carlson should interpret less and listen more. I was quite clear that we are prepared to do more to support Swedish agricultural production, prepared to do more to prevent Swedish dairy farmers from going down, prepared to do more to ensure that we actually have a living countryside and produce food in this country. I don't think anyone who actually listened, unlike Andreas Carlson, could miss it. No, I do not think you should drink German or Dutch or any other imported milk in Swedish schools. I think it was a very bad decision made by the previous government when it was decided to move municipal procurement support, to which municipalities could turn for support in terms of procurement rules, to the authority that has advised the municipalities not to make demands. The municipalities were advised: Do not make any demands! Just take the cheapest, no matter what it means! For this reason, we have changed this structure. We have started a new procurement authority, and we will ensure that there is stronger support for the municipalities so that they can actually buy food that is produced according to the animal welfare and environmental requirements that we set in Sweden.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-433	Mr President, I would like to When I travel around Sweden to meet people I get to see a lot of our beautiful country. I see the wind turbines, which have become more and more. I see forests and farms that produce food and biofuels. I order lunch from the young people at the restaurant at the square of the city that I visit. I pass supermarkets and hospitals where the bricks are now crowded with solar cells. I'll meet the carpenter at home in the village who's about to put in a window. And I cannot help but think, Mr President, that it is too strange that these are all things that the government wants to raise taxes on. Nothing is so important for Sweden to be able to handle the challenges of the future as jobs. If we want to pursue an effective environmental and climate policy, we want to ensure that people who flee to Sweden can enter Swedish society, we want to ensure that there is vitality throughout the country, we want good welfare and school, yes, then we need people who work and contribute. In order for more people to have the opportunity to have a job to go to, a policy is needed for small businesses. This is where four out of five new jobs are created. It's not at Stefan Löfven's in the Government Office. Last week, in the Center Party, we presented our first own budget in a decade. We call it Sweden's job creation budget precisely because it is a budget that from the first to the last page is about how more jobs can be created in Sweden. Since four out of five new jobs are created in small businesses, it actually matters if it becomes more expensive to hire. It matters if the regulatory burden increases. It matters whether there are higher thresholds and closed doors to the labour market. That is why we in the Center Party are proposing to do exactly the opposite. Mr President, I would like to With a responsible alliance policy that has given better conditions for job-creating companies, we can say that Sweden has passed the crisis years well. Swedish competitiveness is good, and it is not difficult in the crisis-torn Europe to find countries that can only dream of the public finances that we have in Sweden. At the same time, we are in a situation where competition from the economies of the world is increasing, where Swedish jobs and companies are challenged and where we need to conduct policies that do not destroy the foundations of our good economy. That's why more people need to be able to afford to hire. That is why we need to open up more ways into the labour market, and that is why the government's policy of raising taxes by 28 billion is not the right policy. While the government is presenting a budget that increases the tax on everything that moves, the Center Party is presenting a forward-looking budget that increases the tax on environmental pollution and lowers the tax on jobs and entrepreneurship. Mr President, I would like to What is moving and which the government therefore wants to tax is also the spinning wind turbines. Today, they produce more than ten times as much energy as when the Center Party took place in the government in 2006. What is to be taxed also includes solar cells and biofuels. To introduce taxes on wind and solar electricity and increase taxes on renewable fuels thus wants a government to do where the Green Party is involved. There have been many excuses for this. Gustav Fridolin blames the EU. You blame Norway. But the fact remains. The government has failed in its negotiations, and it has become clear that the Green Party's green vision for the elections has turned into a red tax increase policy. The Green Party has failed the environment, the climate and the voters. The solar and wind taxes are not the first time that Stefan Lövven's government has failed at the negotiating table. The same happened in the negotiations on the EU's 2030 climate target, where emissions reduction requirements were far too low. Another important negotiation is about to take place in Paris. A global climate agreement must then be concluded and the countries of the world must unite. Responsibility rests heavily with the government. Loss of land must be recovered. A result that can be defended in this House is not enough. It takes a result that allows us to look our children and grandchildren in the eye. Mr President, I would like to In September this year, a normal family of three children arrived in Malmö. It was mom, dad and three daughters between four and seven years old. The arrival in Malmö was not very dramatic. They got off a train from Copenhagen. But the gratitude for being safe could not be mistaken, for the road from war Syria had been paved with dangers: a broken foot in Turkey, two hours in a boat over the sea of death to Greece, five days at the railway station in Budapest, car, train and a hike through Denmark. They wanted to go to Sweden. A lot of people want to go to Germany. Millions dream of Europe. Already at the end of 2014, more than 202 000 people were estimated to have lost their lives during the conflict in Syria. More than 12 million people, more than half the country's population, are on the run. We have a responsibility to help the people who come here. All the countries of Europe are facing these challenges. No one should be able to duck to take responsibility in this difficult situation. Sweden cannot do less, but other countries must do more. We in the European Union must pursue a policy of defending human rights and the right to asylum. We also have a responsibility to ensure that integration in Sweden can be better. How are we going to manage a good refugee reception? How are we gonna get enough housing? How will new people in our country be able to get jobs quickly? The Center Party takes responsibility. That is why we are putting forward down-to-earth concrete proposals for better integration. We propose to move funds from the Employment Service to organisations and associations that help and support new arrivals. We are proposing that municipalities should be given tools for a good reception. We are putting forward proposals for rapid validation so that doctors and nurses can contribute to welfare rather than sit idle in asylum homes. Mr President, I would like to We see that today's labour law creates walls around the Swedish labour market. This mainly affects young and newcomers who have not yet got their first job. It is not the young people's fault, and it is not the new arrivals' fault. It is the labour market's fault, and it must be reformed. We see that the housing market is shaped for a completely different time and contributes to young and new arrivals suffering from overcrowding and housing queues. It is not the young people's fault, and it is not the new arrivals' fault. It is the housing market's fault, and it must be reformed. Mr President, I would like to I will finish my speech where I started, because nothing is as important as jobs if we are to cope with integration or any of the major societal challenges that we face. Therefore, alongside reduced costs for jobs and entrepreneurship, reforms are needed in both labour market and housing policies. All of this, and quite a bit more, is the Center Party's budget exercise, Sweden's job creator's budget. It is our draft budget that, from the first to the last page, creates more jobs in more and growing companies.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-453	Mr President, I would like to It was a strange experience to hear about the Centre Party's achievements in the area of fiscal policy. What we took over last year was a heavy budget deficit, and that is what we are working on now. While increasing investment, we must ensure that the budget deficit to which the Center Party contributed is removed. Let's talk taxes for a little while. It is quite clear that Sweden needs more investment. I cannot interpret it as a tax shock that a person who earns 50 000 kroner a month receives 30 kroner more in tax. I don't call that a tax shock. During the eight years that you pursued your tax-merger policy, there were corresponding cuts, but Sweden needs investment. It is investments that make Sweden strong. Housing, infrastructure, roads, research and climate require investment. Then it takes tax revenue. The Center Party even beats the Moderates when it comes to continuing to lower taxes. At the same time, you are saying that you should invest and do one and the other. That doesn't make any sense. Then we will again land in a huge budget deficit. You must choose the path, and you have. You continue to lower taxes more than any other party. At the same time, you show what you want when you reduce school contributions by SEK 3 1⁄2 billion, lower health care and lower environmental spending. This becomes the case when taxes continue to be reduced and the country does not realise that it needs investment. Think again!
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-458	Mr President, I would like to Stefan Lövven's questions clearly show the difference in the key issue in Swedish politics: How do we ensure that we have more resources for the common welfare? Stefan Löfven believes that if you just raise taxes enough, we get money for health care, school and care. Nothing could be more wrong. Above all, the results of eight years of alliance governance show that this is not the way to go. During our eight years we managed to make major tax cuts while 300 000 more people had a job to go to 2014 compared to 2006. 300,000 more people came to work. As a result, the public debt was lower in 2014 than in 2006. Not least, it led to 99 billion, almost 100 billion, more for the local government sector. The fact that the local government sector had more resources, more than 100 billion more, in 2014 than in 2006 was partly about the fact that we could increase state subsidies to municipalities. But above all, it was about making sure that more people were in work. To now, as the government does, propose huge tax increases of 28 billion on jobs and entrepreneurship will have a single effect, and that is that it will be more difficult for not least Swedish small businesses. If we are to continue to have strong finances in the public sector and be able to fund health, education and long-term care, more people need to get to work. With the realization that four out of five jobs are being created in small businesses, that is where we have to make the effort.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-463	Mr President, I would like to Yes, that is right; it is in small and medium-sized enterprises. It is for this reason that, for example, they, entrepreneurs and single entrepreneurs, need more venture capital. This is the strategic issue that the government is now highlighting. If they cannot develop the new ideas, goods and services, there will be no jobs. You have to do that in order to harvest. The Center Party should understand that. More people need to get to work. That's the whole key. I have therefore set a tough target to bring down unemployment. It's absolutely crucial. The country has a growing population. Then it doesn't work to think you don't have to do more to get people into work. It is not possible to say to the local government sector: we are getting a growing population, but you are not getting more resources. There will be fewer people, for example in elderly care. It's not working.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-466	Mr President, I would like to The crucial question is how we can get more resources for the common welfare. History gives us the right thing to do. It is not through increased taxes that the local government sector has got almost 100 billion more to move around over the past eight years, but because 300 000 more people came into work during our eight years. The reason why the 300 000 people could get into work and get a job to go to was a smart business policy and also tax cuts that made it more profitable to start a business and go to work. The effect of that policy is obvious; it leads to a much greater level of public sector resources. Increased employment provides more money for health care, school and care. That's what the equation looks like. That is why it is so serious with the policy that Stefan Löfven stands for, because greatly increased taxes will lead to fewer people in employment and thus less money for health care, school and care.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-471	Mr President, I would like to I initially asked the so-called opposition leader a rather simple and concrete question, that is, the moderate leader of this House: Do you want another government as soon as possible? We have three more bourgeois small parties in the Swedish Parliament today, and the Center Party is one of them. We have given the bourgeois so-called opposition a number of opportunities to do something about the socialist government and the policy which even the bourgeois Alliance thinks is harmful to Sweden. So far, we have not wanted to do anything, but on the contrary, we have heard here today that we ourselves think it would cause chaos if we were given power, which is very strange. Now we are giving further opportunities. Today, we have raised a motion of censure on the Swedish Minister for Finance. We have also announced that we will vote in favour of the moderate budget in this House when the opportunity is given at the main vote when the budget is managed. My question to Anders W Jonsson is: Do you want another government as soon as possible? Will the Center Party support initiatives to change government?
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-476	Mr President, I would like to Ingemar Stenmark once said: It's hard to understand for anyone who int I'll still try to explain it to Jimmie Åkesson. He is wondering that the Center Party does not want to enter into cooperation with the Swedish Democrats on a common budget to convict the current government. But the Center Party and the Swedish Democrats are the two parties that are absolutely the furthest apart. The Swedish Democrats want to double the restaurant VAT. The Center Party wants the opposite. We need more jobs, not less. The Swedish Democrats vote in the European Parliament time and again in the way that Putin wants. The Center Party does the opposite. We want to make sure it's cheap to hire young people. On the contrary, the Swedish democrats think that it should be made more expensive to hire young people by raising the youth worker's contribution. We think it is extremely important to ensure that the people who are here today and who have fled their home countries quickly get to work. The Swedish democrats think exactly the opposite. On the substance of the matter, the Center Party thinks exactly the opposite of the Swedish Democrats. That, Jimmie Åkesson, is the answer to why the Center Party will not initiate any form of cooperation and let alone make itself dependent on you in some budget discussions. The question is almost as bizarre as if Jonas Sjöstedt were to say: Why does the Center Party not want to cooperate with the Left Party? That is because we have completely different policies. On the contrary, we think that there are no preconditions for creating a government base. It's not harder than that. That is why, Jimmie Åkesson, the Center Party will not support your motion of censure on the Minister for Finance, and that is why we will by no means contribute to your gaining influence in Swedish politics.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-484	Mr President, I would like to It was also a way of not answering the concrete question, which was whether you want another government as soon as possible. Anders W Jonsson did not answer that. I still take it that you don't want to. I have not stood here and proposed a common budget at this stage. That is something to be negotiated on. However, I have said that we will vote for the moderate budget. It is Anders W Jonsson not prepared to do, I think he says here now. The question is: Why do people prefer a socialist budget that has been developed by Jonas Sjöstedt, Åsa Romson, Gustav Fridolin and Stefan Löfven over the budget presented by Anna Kinberg Batra? Explain it to me, explain it to the Centre Party voters, Anders W Jonsson!
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-487	Mr President, I would like to The answer from the Center Party has been clear all along: by 2018, we want to see a new government in this country, an alliance government with strong support in this House and a strong center party as our alternative. That is also why we are choosing to pursue a tough centre policy, and that is why we are presenting a common budget that we will also be voting for. But we are not prepared to do as the Swedish Democrats are proposing, namely find common points, a new government base and a new parliamentary position in order to put Sweden in a political crisis. This is not a social game, Jimmie Åkesson. This is about substance politics, and in most areas of substance policy, the Center Party and the Swedish Democrats think exactly the opposite. That is why we will do everything in our power to minimise the influence of Sweden's democrats here in Parliament.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-490	Mr President, I would like to In 2015, it will be decided whether we will be able to meet the climate challenge in time or whether our ability as a humanity to prevent a full-scale climate disaster will slip out of our hands. This is not the time for environmental policy arguments, but this is the time for responsibility. All parties must be environmental parties. I would therefore like to ask Anders W Jonsson a question about the climate. From the centre-party budget, I note that we are pulling in the same direction when it comes to rail maintenance, wind power and the possibility of building a renewable energy system. There is a good basis for continued cooperation. What I cannot understand is why the Center Party is cutting environmental protection and climate policy in its draft budget. I've read the center-party budget bill. It includes cuts in the construction of climate-smart rentals and new green neighbourhoods, cuts in the climate resilience of the millions of programme's homes and schools, cuts in local climate investments, cuts in environmental protection and, in a few years' time, even cuts in the support for solar cells and cuts in the clean-up of contaminated areas. Several of the investments the Center Party wants to abolish completely. Unfortunately, what the money is going to do is obvious. The Center Party is one of the bourgeois parties that have proposed the greatest tax reductions. The aim is to reduce the tax by a total of SEK 128 billion. I have nothing in principle against tax reductions. There are a lot of taxes you can lower, but first you have to cope with the challenges we face. There, the climate threat is the most serious.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-497	Mr President, I would like to As Gustav Fridolin has discovered, the climate issue is extremely important for the Center Party. It has been so for a very long time. During the government years, it was one of the issues that we gave absolute priority to. For us, however, climate policy is not just about talk but very much about results. When we look back at what we could achieve in our years in the government, we are actually quite proud. We have ten times as much wind power today as we had in 2006. We have four times as much non-fossil fuels that drive our vehicles forward as we had then. We have a strong emergence of biofuels, which today have even passed fossil fuels. Today, when the EU Commissioner comes here, he commends Sweden. Sweden is a leading country in terms of coping with the changeover. International assessors say that if all countries were as far ahead as Sweden, that would not be a problem. It is much thanks to the efforts made by the Center Party in government over the eight years that we were in charge. Then it's like this: If you're going to be successful in environmental and climate work, itGustav not about the size of the Ministry of Environment's budget, it's about the results that you can actually achieve. What makes me very worried is the following fact. One of the first issues the government had to address for negotiations with Norway. It failed badly, and the result is that we in Sweden now get a tax on renewable energy, a tax on solar and wind power. Yes, you heard correctly: Under the leadership of the Green Party in the government, Sweden accepts a tax on renewable energy. That makes me very concerned, Mr President, about how the government will succeed in the negotiations in Paris.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-502	Mr President, I would like to The support for solar cells is eightfold. The tax referred to by Anders W Jonsson is relevant only for facilities larger than a 50 meter swimming pool. All smaller facilities, housing associations and homeowners will have better conditions today, for example, to sell their surplus to the net. During the alliance years, the environmental impact of taxes decreased sharply. But with that said: I do not want to in any way deprive Anders W Jonsson of his pride in Sweden's results – Sweden does a lot – and I am as result-focused as Anders W Jonsson. But the question remains: how will it be more of climate-smart rentals if you cut off support for climate-smart rentals? How will it be better for the million-dollar program's climate armament if you cut off the climate armament of the million-dollar program? How will local climate investments improve if you abolish support for local climate investments? How will it be more effective in the area of environmental protection if you cut off support for environmental protection? Then the results will be worse! Tax cuts are good, but they can't save the environment, can they, Anders W Jonsson?
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-505	Mr President, I would like to I am surprised by the Green Party, which previously had great visions for both environmental and climate policy. But now that you've ended up in the Government Office, it's all about how much expenditure the Ministry of Environment has in place. That is the crucial question. For us in the Center Party, it is about what major changes we can make. During our years in the government, we have shown extremely clear results, and we want to move forward. We have put forward a proposal for green tax exchange, which makes it more expensive to shit down but also cheaper to hire. The answer to what the Green Party, which was previously also a party that defended and pushed the issue of green tax exchange, is that we should now start taxing renewable energy as well. It is completely incomprehensible how, after a year in the Government Office, the Green Party has completely lost its vision in this area. That disappoints me.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-508	Mr President, I would like to Under your lines, Anders W Jonsson, you have managed to say both that it is impossible to work with the Left Party and that it is so good that you have expanded the renewable energy so much. I would just like to remind you in silence that it was a settlement between the Left Party, the Center Party and the Social Democrats that laid the foundations for this extension. But that's not what I was going to ask you. The Center Party has long wanted to lower a nurse's salary. You've demanded lower entry wages. Now you also want to restrict her right to strike, her right to renounce and take a conflict for wages and working conditions that are good. If the Centre Party's proposal to restrict the right to sympathy becomes a reality, it is precisely the nurses and others in the public sector who can be most affected. They are the ones who will find it most difficult to defend themselves and their working conditions. They are the ones who will see their wages and working conditions deteriorate. The Centre Party's proposal to restrict the right to strike will not lead to more jobs, but only to worse conditions for all those who work. In Finland, the Center Party rules and you can see how center politics can work in practice. There, your sister's party has taken away from the nurses part of their vacation and some salary supplements. There has been an intervention into the free right of negotiation. A month ago, Finland stood still on strike in protest of the Centre Party's interference with the free right of negotiation. It is a premonition of what we could experience if you take seriously your decision to restrict workers' rights to conflict. At the same time, you are not very clear on how you wish to restrict the right to strike. But, Anders W Jonsson, now you have two full minutes to tell Sweden's nurses how you want to cut them off on the right to conflict for their working conditions.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-513	Mr President, I would like to I'll start with a renunciation: the Center Party doesn't think we should reduce the salary of nurses. What the Center Party has said with regard to the right to strike is that we must have a proportionality towards the measures taken, above all, against the individual self-employed – where we want to see changes. I understand that Jonas Sjöstedt does not see that. The basic problem we have in Sweden is that we have built up very large walls around the Swedish labour market for a long number of years. Of course, it has to some extent felt good for those inside. But those who have paid the price for this, Jonas Sjöstedt, are all hundreds of thousands who live in alienation and have never had the chance to come in. Very many of them are young people. Sweden has a high youth unemployment rate. Not least, very many of them are newly arrived in Sweden. We are prepared to take measures to ensure that the walls around the Swedish labour market are reduced, in order to increase the chance for these people to enter. Paying is obviously a matter for the social partners. However, you can find other ways in. This is one of the really big challenges that Sweden faces, not least given the refugee situation that we have now. We are prepared to turn every page to ensure that more people get a job. But it is clear that it is more important for the Left Party to safeguard the rights that one has if one is inside the walls.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-518	Mr President, I would like to There is no contradiction between good working conditions and many jobs. It is a cherished bourgeois myth that it is that way. Nor is it the case that we have more conflicts with good conditions for taking conflicts on the labour market. We have quite few conflicts in Sweden. This is based on employees having a right and a position of strength. You are unique in that you want to restrict the right to conflict for their working conditions. But you're not clear. How, Anders W Jonsson, do you wish to restrict the right to strike? I think you're extremely unclear. What laws are to be changed? Who should be covered? How will the nurse be affected? Will she have the same right to resort to conflict in the labour market when it is actually necessary to defend working conditions?
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-521	Mr President, I would like to This is one of the really big challenges facing Swedish society. How are we to ensure that those people who lack education and are far from the Swedish labour market can enter? A number of measures are needed here. One way is, of course, to ensure that you have low taxes for people who are outside. But something else absolutely crucial is how we view labour law and the walls that we have built up around the labour market. The Centre Council recently took a position to look at this with proportionality. There we will come back with suggestions as to how it might look in detail. But we will never deviate from our goal, namely to ensure that more people – not fewer – enter the labour market. It has been a long time since it has been so urgent to achieve what is precisely in the situation that we are now facing.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-524	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. We are in a serious and uncertain political situation. It is a situation that demands us as political leaders. Perhaps we need to remind ourselves that when we make decisions and when we block decisions, we affect people's living conditions. We have a responsibility not to create political unrest and economic uncertainty by sudden moves and irresponsible words and actions. At the same time as we have this debate, the Alliance's party leader is out in the foyer and offers various offers on what it will look like for Sweden's state budget next year. This cannot be the case if you are to be a serious government option. What does it mean to take responsibility? This means not trying to sabotage their political opponents, but instead being constructive and seeking political solutions, not creating uncertainty by being unclear about what we want or how we intend to act, but giving direct answers and not putting vulnerable groups against each other by describing refugees as gökungar. But above all, it means not ducking for the real challenges we face. One of these challenges is the housing bubble that a number of institutions are now warning about. A broad agreement on a reduction in interest rebates would cool down a overheated housing market. We know it's serious. A crash could have disastrous consequences both for the Swedish economy and for many Swedes. Fortunately, there are now more parties joining our proposal for a step-by-step and clear reduction in interest rebates. But there are still parties saying no, not because they doubt that this is the right measure – I think they do not – but because they are worried about what it would mean for their opinion figures. In this serious situation, we cannot afford that kind of populism. That is why we propose – and we call on the government to call for this – talks between the parties in order to achieve a broad and long-term agreement on a degression of interest rebates. To conclude such a deal would be to take responsibility for the Swedish economy. Another challenge is that so many fellow humans are now seeking refuge in our country from war and persecution. It is a challenge; we all see that. But we have managed so far thanks to a well-functioning public administration and fantastic contributions from voluntary Swedes. Receiving 1 000 or 2 000 refugees a day is also a challenge for a well-functioning society such as the Swedish one. We know that major challenges can as well lead to sharpened contradictions as to bringing people together. So far we have seen many examples of this later. If we want it to continue, we need to show the people who are now opening their hearts that we do not accept that others take the opportunity to fill their wallets. We're going to have order in the reception of refugees. For me, it means harder hands on those who skim on the misfortune of others, not on those who seek refuge from war and persecution. It is not okay for companies to request SEK 3 500 per day to take care of unaccompanied refugee children or to charge more than every two crowns of their turnover in profit. The Left Party and the Government agree that welfare should not be driven by profit. But we must do what we can now to reduce the scope for profiteers. One reason prices are being pushed up is the lack of accommodation. One reason for this shortcoming is that some 10 000 refugees who have been granted a residence permit are stuck in refugee housing. They need to be allowed to come to a municipality to start their life in Sweden, and the new asylum seekers who are now coming need their places in the camps. The fact that all municipalities take their share of responsibility and accept refugees is the solution for those people who are now denied the opportunity to start learning Swedish and get a job. Therefore, it was so gratifying to hear about how several hundred Vellingebor took each other's hands on Sunday and formed a chain around the town hall to demand that their municipality take its share of the responsibility for the people seeking protection. I think you too, Anna Kinberg Batra, deep down realize that the richest moderate-led municipalities in our country must begin to receive refugees. To meet the challenges that we face and that await us in the future, we need to make our society stronger and more resilient, and we need to build away the housing shortage. We want to do this by reducing gaps and expanding welfare. On the contrary, others want to reduce taxes for those who earn the most. It's a choice. In the draft budget that we have negotiated with the government, we have achieved important welfare reforms that have strengthened primary care for women with low incomes and an increase in skills in the care of the elderly and disabled. We also agree on reforms that reduce the gaps, such as an increase in the basic level of parental insurance and the abolition of a longer time limit in health insurance. It is a budget that means that we are expanding people's welfare. We also add new building blocks to the welfare building as free mammography for all women, free dental care for young people and free primary care for the oldest. It is a budget that addresses the challenges we face. One such challenge is the growing mental illness among young people. Young girls are particularly vulnerable. Every third girl in high school feels anxiety or anxiety in her everyday life. That's why we're strengthening psychiatry and youth clinics. I am pleased both with the budget as a whole and with our contribution to this budget. I look forward to the Riksdag adopting it later this autumn and making a reality of our efforts in everything from educational outdoor environments in recreation centres and schools to public transport in rural areas. At the same time, I am impatient and want to move on. There is so much we need to do further, not least in terms of climate, housing and investment. After the bourgeois parties demolished the December Agreement, political tactics are now at stake. Who settles with who, and how? But for me it is about which direction Sweden should take as a country. If the government continues to cooperate with the Left Party, we know what we're getting. The left side is to be trusted. We're not running around out there in the lobby talking about how we can do things differently in next year's budget. We stand by our word. We are clear about what we want, and we do not put vulnerable groups against each other. There will be a reduction in gaps and increased prosperity when we cooperate. If the government chooses to cooperate with bourgeois parties, the result is, instead, reduced taxes for those who earn the most and cuts in welfare. Modern Sweden, the country in which we have grown up, has been characterised by smaller class divisions than other countries and a relatively well-functioning welfare that has helped people when they need help. These are important assets for our country. They are an important part of the explanation of the trust that we know about each other. It is a trust that, in itself, may be our most precious asset because it makes us dare to assume that even the one we do not know actually wants us well. I am convinced that it would be a mistake to jeopardise this trust by allowing the divides to grow and prosperity to decay, especially at a time of great challenges that require a strong and resilient society. Mr President, I would like to With these words, I would like to thank you for the floor.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-539	Mr President, I would like to I can agree with Jonas Sjöstedt on one thing, namely that we have a troubled environment and that it is important that we safeguard welfare and trust here in Sweden. But then our opinions differ as to what is being done about this. I would like to ask Jonas Sjöstedt a question. The government budget, which Jonas Sjöstedt has been involved in negotiating and supporting, abandons the target of at least 20 000 police officers. Furthermore, the Left Party has made itself known for wanting to alleviate the penalties and release convicted criminals earlier than today – and this in a society where, unfortunately, we have seen heavy criminal settlements. In Gothenburg, for example, a policeman describes how they cannot be present in the way they would need. This means that criminals may be more or less undisturbed. In our budget motion, we Moderates have proposed 1 000 more police officers and increased penalties.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-542	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Anna Kinberg Batra for this very important issue. One can iblan d get the impression of the debate that the serious violent crimes in Sweden are increasing. They do not do so better. They're going down. This applies, for example, to the number of murders. But that is never an excuse for not doing everything possible to combat the heavy organised crime. I think it is important to see that the solutions are complex. We're gonna have enough cops, but they're gonna have to work the right way. They must work closely with social services and with the people living in an area. They have to work close to the Tax Agency. That's when you're really successful. There are good examples. Take Södertälje, who has been plagued by very heavy crime – just the kind of crime that Anna Kinberg Batra talks about. It was when the police became even more present, when the tax authorities went after those who made money from the heavy crime and who never got caught and when the social services went in and actively marked young people who were at risk of being recruited to the criminal gangs that the development actually turned around in Södertälje. I think that is the kind of solution we need to look at. There are a number of international experiences that show that it rarely affects crime simply to raise the penalties. Sometimes it may be necessary to tighten the penalties, and we have been open to it, for example, with regard to arms legislation and the provisions on serious weapons offences. This may give the police additional powers to intervene when it is suspected that serious weapons offences may be committed. Otherwise, however, it is something that fits well in the talk of harder hold but often does not help the people who are actually victims of crime. Unlike what happened in the bourgeois years, we will not leave Sweden's suburbs in the lurch. We will not allow the services to be impoverished and the young people to go unemployed. It is also important in order to create the faith in the future and the opportunities that young people deserve and which prevent them from being drawn into criminal acts.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-547	Mr President, I would like to Jonas Sjöstedt talks about the transparency of more stringent penalties, in comparison with, for example, the series of announcements made by the Parliamentary Committee on Justice and this House in favour of more severe penalties for serious organised crime. Here there are a number of occasions when we have had a parliamentary majority for harsher penalties but where the government for some reason has chosen not to return. According to studies, there are 55 areas in Sweden where criminal networks have taken over. Then it is good to cooperate with authorities, but that is not enough, Jonas Sjöstedt. Co-operation between authorities is not enough against serious organised crime. I do not get an answer to the question why the 20 000 police should be abandoned or why it would be to secure security and trust in society to say no 1 000 more police officers in these particular areas. It is Jonas Sjöstedt who leaves the suburbs in the lurch.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-549	Mr President, I would like to I think populism is dangerous, Anna Kinberg Batra, and I believe that populism in such complex and difficult challenges is particularly dangerous. It's so simple to say that a few more police officers and a little harder punishment solves everything. Then you can look at research and experience and see that reality is much more complicated than that. Sometimes you have to take the fact that reality is more complicated. How do we keep criminals from becoming even more criminals when they go to prison? Instead, how do we give them a way out of crime? How do we cut the roads for recruitment to the criminal gangs while allowing our police to have the tools they need to fight heavy crime? Police work is a difficult and important job. The police have my full respect for the important work they do in Sweden. But if they do not have the support of a social development that makes it possible for the people at risk of being recruited to the criminal gangs to believe in the future, we make their work so much more difficult. That's where we differ, Anna Kinberg Batra.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-552	Mr President, I would like to 2015 is the year when it is decided whether we are able to face the climate threat in time or whether our ability as a humanity to avoid a full-scale climate disaster slips out of our hands. This is not the time for environmental policy arguments, it is the time for responsibility. All parties must be environmental parties, which is why I would also like to ask Jonas Sjöstedt about the climate. The question is about the commitment of companies to the environment. The new solutions needed to meet the climate threat are emerging in companies that take the climate threat seriously. The solutions we already know must be produced, put on the market and compete with yesterday's fossil products. The power of economic transformation must be used to address climate and resource problems. Better solutions, smarter production methods and less energy and raw material consumption are needed instead of being more, more, more. That is why economic instruments are needed, and there are two types of companies that are particularly important. One type is innovation companies, which at the forefront of development can find solutions. The second type is – in fact – some of the most traditional businesses we have, namely agriculture and forestry. This is where the fuels, energy and building materials of the future are produced. The Government and the Left Party have agreed on a good budget that is on Parliament's table, but Jonas Sjöstedt has made it clear that he would like to introduce some new taxes. When I study what taxes the Left Party wants to introduce, it becomes clear to me that it is taxes that risk hitting the very innovations of green industries that we need. A wealth tax would effectively hamper the supply of capital to small, fast-growing innovation companies. Inheritance tax prevents generational shifts in agriculture, forestry and other family businesses. In these parts, I am afraid that tax policy you represent would be harmful to the environment, Jonas Sjöstedt. We are happy to demand from others that there be an environmental impact assessment of all decisions, and I would therefore like to ask whether the Left Party has carried out an analysis of what inheritance tax, wealth tax and your other tax policy would do for companies' opportunities to contribute to climate change.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-557	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the question, Gustav Fridolin. I said in a previous replica shift that we could issue a certificate that the Green Party is not a left-wing party, and you can get a gold star and a blue ribbon on that certificate as well. In Sweden today, 40% – it is uncertain statistics – of the wealth is at the richest percentage of the population. 85 people in the world own more than half of mankind does. Anyone who thinks it is reasonable to vote against a wealth tax, and anyone who thinks it is unreasonable to realise that there is room here to contribute more to the development of society. The same is true of inheritance taxation; in most countries around the world there is some form of inheritance taxation. However, I realise that we must ensure that this does not prevent generational shifts in agriculture or small businesses. You can have different models for that, and we are completely open to discussion. Not wanting to fight this bizarre accumulation of wealth in fewer and fewer people, however, seems to me to be bad. We can do much more, and I will give examples of things where we are fully open to further developing our policies together. We would like a higher climate target in Sweden and our own climate target when we go to Paris, instead of ducking behind the EU's rather weak climate targets. We would like to remove CDM measures as part of the Swedish climate action. We're gonna do our homework at home. We can get a lot greener. We would like to remember the coal bit from last year and realise that one of the most important things we can do is not sell Vattenfall's coal mines but actually phase them out. I know you think like me in that case, Gustav Fridolin. By investing in solar electricity, which we have partly started with, we can create a completely new industry in Sweden – we can see how it is in Germany but not in Sweden. We should also remove subsidies for environmentally damaging activities, such as reductions in CO2 taxation, while helping Swedish agriculture and Swedish fishing to switch to environmentally friendly fuels. That is to take the climate issue seriously. We're ready. Are you?
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-563	Mr President, I would like to I think many of the proposals made by Jonas Sjöstedt are good. A lot is, as Jonas Sjöstedt says, what we are now working for together. I also believe that equality is important in order to achieve climate and environmental objectives, but one of the reasons why I will never be a socialist is that I do not believe anywhere that a policy can be pursued on the basis of a principle that leads to absolute truth on every issue. That is somehow the way the Left Party often argues, for example now that we are raising inheritance tax and wealth tax. We have tried these things in Sweden, and part of it has been part of the Green Party and the Left Party having abolished together – precisely because we saw that they effectively excluded the possibility of capital supply and innovation companies. The wealth tax became a tax only for those who did not plan away their taxes but wanted to use them to get companies to grow in Sweden. The inheritance tax was harmful to generational shifts in agricultural and forestry enterprises, that is, precisely those we need to cope with the climate threat.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-566	Mr President, I would like to I am convinced that equal societies are better in so many more ways than the unequal societies. Our societies are going the wrong way. It is a small, small group – the richest percentage – that controls the wealth, and it is an obstacle to climate change. If we all live like Carl Bildt and fly more often than we are on the ground, we will destroy this planet's climate in no time. But as someone said to me, oh, what a week it would be the week we were doing! It is not reasonable to demand that ordinary people change their lives by buying environmental cars and setting up solar panels while the richest part of society can continue to destroy so infinitely more. It's not gonna work. The climate issue is essentially about the equal distribution of too scarce ecological resources. Then you cannot give all of the world's Carl Bildt a free letter, Gustav Fridolin, but then you need a wealth tax and an inheritance tax.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-568	Mr President, I would like to With more than 60 million on the run in the world, we in Sweden and the EU have a special responsibility to take. It is about giving those seeking refuge here, and also a way into society. The job is the key to effective integration. That is why we in the Center Party have always given priority to shortening the path from war and flight to work and housing. There is no doubt that the Left Party in the discussion is clear that Sweden will offer refugees a sanctuary. But the problem, as I see it, is how to look at integration and the opportunity for those who will actually get a job. In the budget presented by the Left Party together with the Government, the priority is clear: Increase taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship. This alone, of course, reduces quite drastically the possibility for newcomers to enter the labour market. But as if it were not enough, the Left Party wants it to be impossible to find a part-time job, because it punishes the asylum seeker by immediately removing the establishment allowance. Those who are new in Sweden can therefore no longer be sure that it would pay off to work. Besides, the Left Party wants to go even further than that. When you read about the Left Party's labour market policy, which we have discussed in the past, it becomes clear that you want to make the possibility of temporary employment very difficult. The Left Party therefore wants, firstly, to make it more expensive to employ through increased taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship; secondly, to make it less profitable for newcomers to work by taking their remuneration from the first day; and thirdly, to raise the thresholds into the labour market by stopping temporary employment. My question to Jonas Sjöstedt is therefore: how can such a policy lead to those who have just come to Sweden getting into work more quickly?
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-575	Mr President, I would like to I shall first express my agreement with the Center Party on the fundamental issue. I am convinced that the Center Party, Annie Lööf and Anders W Jonsson will stand up for a humane refugee policy and that you will not begin to waver on the issue, as unfortunately some other bourgeois parties do. I think it feels good at this point. Then the question is why we want a different policy from that which you pursued over eight years, where tax cuts and market reforms were considered to increase employment. Yeah, the simple answer is it didn't work. If you try something not just one year, two years and five years, but for eight years and it doesn't work without unemployment getting higher, then it's time to think new. The Center Party seems to think that if something fails badly, you should do it even more for it to succeed. I think the logic is the reverse, that you have to try something else instead. Take the reduction in employers' contributions for young people. You're the staunch pewter soldier here who's still standing. The other bourgeois parties have said that it was a huge waste of money. We get four times as many jobs if we use that money in, for example, welfare than we get by scattering it as a general subsidy to young people who already have a job. That's the answer. We are simply convinced that our policy of increasing investment, both public and private, provides more jobs than this simple tax-merger policy. It is courageous for bourgeois politicians to talk about establishment. In fact, your hasty decision to put the establishment on Arbetsförmedlingen and have a system of pilots actually capsized. It went down in mismanagement and partly criminality. It has made the establishment worse. I believe that we must have a completely different social responsibility for the establishment of newcomers in Sweden. And it is no coincidence that the government has had to abandon the structure that you were trying to create in that area. The market is good in many ways, but to take care of people on the run I think the market is very bad.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-583	Mr President, I would like to Then I'll start by telling Jonas Sjöstedt something. Our policy was not a failure. Over 300,000 more came to work during our years. In fact, a crucial part of them were people who were not born in Sweden. It was a successful policy. That's why we choose to move on on that track. We know that four out of five new jobs are being created in small businesses. That's why we don't make it more expensive to hire. We know that every job counts. And it's got to pay off working. That is why you cannot do as you propose and remove the start-up allowance on the first day someone gets a part-time job. We know that the thresholds for the Swedish labour market are already too high. It affects young people and it affects new arrivals. That's why we want to lower them. On all three points, the Left Party chooses to pursue the directly opposite policy. And unfortunately, Mr President, it is not a policy for new arrivals to get to work quickly. It is not a policy that shortens the path from war and escape to work and housing.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-586	Mr President, I would like to Normally unemployment and employment are measured as a percentage. I understand why the bourgeoisie does not, because then it looks a little worse, but it is the reasonable way to measure it. I Jonsson right to say that we need an even more offensive policy on small business. I would like to review the social conditions for small businesses. Many people worry about retirement, parental allowance and other things. We want to take out sick pay entirely for the first two weeks. So maybe there are some points of contact. How does a modern, complex internationalized economy work? Do you solve the challenges you face through pool cleaning? These are such things as investment, levels of investment in society. These are such things as having the demand so that companies can sell their products. It is about investing in things that increase competitiveness, such as education and transport. None of that is solved with grants for pool cleaning. At some point, the Center Party actually has to bring it in.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-590	Mr President, I would like to During the spring and autumn that have been so far, I have visited a wide range of retirement homes, home care businesses, LSS homes and other places in Sweden. It has been both municipal and private. I have talked to many elderly people, care recipients and relatives in these contexts. And there is one thing that has surprised me, because I had listened to Jonas Sjöstedt before and expected those who were in private accommodations to complain and say: This is wrong. It's for profit and something crazy about this. There are major quality deficiencies here. But you know what, Jonas Sjöstedt? There's no one I've talked to in a single living room that's raised the issue of forms of operation? No one has raised the issue of profit and is upset that the company is making a profit. It is a debate that is taking place in this House. What people talk about there is of course the food, that you are critical of the food, that you want to come out and go or something. But it is just as common in municipal as in private housing. On the contrary, the studies show that there is greater satisfaction on average in private activities. I wonder why Jonas Sjöstedt is so obsessed with this issue when ordinary people are not. The companies I have visited have one thing in common, and that is that they are now threatened by government policy, because the Left Party is pushing strongly. But they also have another thing in common: they are almost all run by women. Men making money in Sweden is okay, but when women make money, it should be banned. It's your policy. You call yourself a left-wing minister, but in the end, you are far more left than feminists. Sweden needs more feminism, but Sweden does not need socialism.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-595	Mr President, I would like to It's nice to hear Jan Björklund talking feminism. It happens too rarely. I wish it wasn't just about directors who are women when you talk feminism but maybe more about nurses and others. Who's doing the job in welfare? Yes, it is all the nurses and nurses, all those who work every day in it. I am absolutely convinced that those who work in private activities do at least as good work as those who work in public activities. They struggle every day to provide good care for older people. They have professional pride. They have expertise. I have nothing bad to say about them. But I want to give them good working conditions. If you ask Kommunal's members, and Kommunal has done so, who they want to work for will answer that they want to work for the municipality. And maybe there's a reason for that. We can see that what makes money in profit-driven welfare is how many employees you have. That is what is costing in welfare. And if you're going to make a lot of profit, you're going to have a lot less nurses; that's what it looks like. Then those left will have to run faster, have more shared tours or work more part time. That's a real problem, Jan Björklund. We believe that those who work in welfare are worthy of good working conditions, whether in private or public welfare. We know that the part of precarious employment is greater where profit interests come in, and we believe that we have the right to secure employment. Not everything is good in the public sphere, and we are making efforts to make it better. The budget makes a major investment in education. Many people working in the care of the elderly need both initial and continuing vocational training. But above all, we are making a big effort to get more colleagues. We have agreed with the government that 5,000 more will work in the care of the elderly. It's because we make a choice. For us, it is more important to have colleagues and a good working environment than to lower taxes for those who earn the most, which is the People's Party's line.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-601	Mr President, I would like to You know what, Jonas Sjöstedt? Almost everyone I talk to from the nursing staff in the private institutions has previously worked in the municipal community. And almost invariably they say it's better. They've deliberately changed. They weren't forced to change. No one forced them to work in private business, Jonas Sjöstedt. They chose for themselves. And they like it, they like it even better and they don't want to change back. This does not mean that everything is peace and joy everywhere or that one is bad and the other is good. It can be about as good or as bad in both operations. But your main thing is to ban private businesses. You claim you don't want to ban them, you just want to ban profit. However, there are no activities that can be carried out in the private sector if losses are allowed but profits are prohibited! A company makes profits sometimes and losses sometimes. You have to even that out over time. If profits are prohibited, there are no private companies. You're obsessed with politicians being in charge. People should not be allowed to choose for themselves. That's the problem.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-603	Mr President, I would like to The problem with Jan Björklund's reasoning is, of course, that it is wrong. As far as the school is concerned, Sweden is unique by allowing unlimited winnings. You, Jan Björklund, were the one who demolished the Swedish school through the privatisation and division, so you know a lot about this. In many countries there are schools that are not public but still exist. In Jan Björklund's world, they would not exist because they are not allowed to make profits. But what if people want to educate children because they are passionate about educating children? What if people actually want to do health care and care for the elderly because they think it is important? Has the idea not occurred to you, Jan Björklund, that this is actually how it works in society in large parts of the world and that it works like that? If there is private activity that works well, and it does, of course, it would not work even better if all the money went to health care? That would give you more workmates and more time. It is even better than taking part of the money we have paid in taxes and giving it to a venture capital company that may not even be taxing in Sweden? I'm saying the arguments don't hold up.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-605	Madam President, I would like The increase in home-care rates affects the most deprived pensioners, mainly women. It is a proposal from a feminist government that the poorest and the oldest should be hit hardest, and the hardest hit against women at all. The Christian Democrats were in the Alliance and reduced the tax five times for all pensioners. A guarantee pensioner had in 2014 about SEK 1,800 more in disposable income each month compared to when the Alliance took office. The government is now implementing proposals with the support of the Left Party, which have the effect that the most deprived pensioners with home care will overall receive less. According to the Ministry of Social Affairs' own calculations, approximately 78,000 people with home help will receive higher fees. We Christian Democrats reject this increase in our budgetary option. We want to continue to reduce taxes on pensioners. We say no to special wage tax for the elderly and instead want to introduce a double job tax deduction from the age of 64. We also have a retirement home guarantee, a nursing lift, a national dementia plan and a meal lift, in addition to what we are doing with the proposal I made on a national home care tax. We firmly reject this, because it hits the poorest pensioners so hard. My question is quite simple, Jonas Sjöstedt. How can you support a budget that makes it worse for the most deprived pensioners?
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-609	Madam President, I would like I think it's a bad thing to raise the level of the home help rate. That was something we had to agree to in the budget negotiation. I'd rather not. But it's voluntary. In Sweden's largest municipality, Stockholm, where elderly care is handled with the ultimate responsibility of a left-wing party, we refrain from making that increase. However, this is not the big change that is taking place for the elderly. Nor does it hit the most deprived pensioners; rather, it is those with an average pension who are most affected. In fact, less than 1% of pensioners are worse off. I wish I could say it wasn't anyone. I can't say, but that's what the distribution looks like. Why is that? Well, it's because our and the government's efforts are so much greater than the change that the adjustment of the home care tariff entails. We lower the tax, and we start with those with the lowest pensions, mostly women, so that they get more left in their wallets. We are raising the housing supplement, which reaches exactly the same group: women who have worked their whole lives but have too low pensions. We carry out free health care for those who have turned 85, a quarter of a million Swedes, many with very low pensions. We are investing heavily in staffing and training in care for the elderly. I agree that raising the home service rate is a beauty stain. I'd rather be without it. But every numerator sees that what this budget does is to raise purchasing power and the economic standard for a crushing majority of pensioners in Sweden who have the lowest pension. The Christian Democrats should be cheering about that.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-612	Madam President, I would like Perhaps I will disappoint Jonas Sjöstedt by not exulting, but the worst thing is that those who are actually affected by the proposal to increase the home service tariff do not rejoice very much at being tied into what is described as just 1%. We are talking about 11 000 people, possibly looking at the debate in this House and perhaps almost getting the feeling: a little spillage is to be expected – that is only 1%. This is true of the poorest pensioners, and it is those whom we Christian Democrats have always protected and have always put the hardest effort into through proper distribution policies that have strengthened those who are the most deprived. You admit that you do not think this proposal is very good, Jonas Sjöstedt, and it honors you. But how can the Left Party support a budget that makes it worse for these 11 000 people, the most deprived pensioners?
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-614	Madam President, I would like I'll be happy to tell you. This budget as a whole is the opposite of what the bourgeois in the Alliance did for eight years. It's women who win. Single mothers and pensioners with low pensions are finally the winners when a state budget is presented in Sweden. It is those who work in welfare and those who need welfare who are the winners when we make a budget that goes through the Riksdag. I'm proud of this. It's not a perfect budget. I hardly believe that there are perfect budgets in the world in which we live. But it is a budget that definitely reduces inequalities, both between men and women and between rich and poor. We are making great efforts to combat child poverty. It is invested in culture and welfare. We're expanding the infrastructure. I am proud of this budget and stand for it, even though there are some minor beauty spots in it.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-616	Madam President, I would like Almost 10 000 people – so many have applied for asylum in Sweden in the last week. Behind the figures are people of flesh and blood. Many of them have fled across the sea and risked their lives to avoid war and terror. They have done what we would all do in that situation: try to create a better future for our children. I do not think we can imagine the desperation and vulnerability that people feel. These human fates make you extremely affected. Above all, those who never got there, who never had the chance to give their children that new future, influence you. Compassion and humility, but also determination and responsibility, I think that we should all in here have with us in a difficult time filled with great concern. We Liberals are prepared to take responsibility and do what we can to achieve a broad consensus here in Parliament on the measures that may be needed as a result of the refugee crisis. Our entrances to this are that Sweden should have a humanitarian starting point and safeguard the right to asylum. The Liberals don't believe in barbed wire. On the other hand, we believe that more countries need to take greater responsibility to help. And just as all EU countries must take responsibility, all Swedish municipalities must also be prepared to do so. There is tremendous pressure today in some parts of Sweden, and it is not reasonable that some more well-advanced municipalities do not feel able to help. We also want to help ensure that decisions on asylum are given more quickly, so that those who are rejected can also leave Sweden more quickly. We must now concentrate our efforts on those people who really have protection reasons. Refugee reception in Sweden will also pose major integration challenges, even bigger in the future than we already have. For us liberals, it is clear that integration begins at work. It is not enough to have open doors into Sweden. The doors to the Swedish labour market must also be opened. The challenge of integration lies above all not in those who come here with an academic degree in their luggage, but the challenge is about those who do not even have a proper schooling of the type of primary school from their own country. If you think integration starts at work, you need to open up the labour market to more types of jobs that are currently praised by high entry wages and high taxes. I welcome the Green Party's signal today in the morning on this issue. My hope is that all parties are now prepared to sit down and take responsibility for finding solutions together in the difficult situation facing our country. Madam President, I would like For us, the goal of politics is for people to have more freedom. One goal must then be for Sweden to have the best welfare in the world. It is about school, equality, health care and care. There is only one recipe to reach the world's best welfare. It is economic development and economic growth. It is not more taxes or increased taxes that Sweden needs to safeguard its welfare. There are more people who work and pay taxes to the state. It's because more people work as economies grow. That's how welfare benefits more people. A change of perspective is needed in Swedish politics. We need targets. The Prime Minister has introduced a few different goals. It's not wrong to have goals. But the targets have to measure the right things. That's when they're heading in the right direction. The fact that we are going to have the lowest unemployment rate in the EU by 2020 is an erroneously set target. We should replace it with an employment target, that we should create more jobs. We must have targets based on Sweden's successes and not on the failures of other countries. It is not enough to remove the parentheses and that more will be retired early so that we reduce unemployment. Sweden does not receive any economic development of this. There are more real jobs that we need and more people who have real jobs. In the Liberal Party's draft budget, we give priority to jobs, schools, housing, care for the elderly and Swedish defence. We need fundamental structural reforms and liberalisation in Sweden in several areas. It is a liberalized labour market with modern labour law that makes it easier to change jobs and get jobs. It is about a liberalised housing market with less regulation, more free renting and reduced removal tax that increases mobility. It is a liberalised energy market that does not have an incredible amount of views on exactly which power plants exist, but tries more to combat CO2 emissions. There is a need for a school of knowledge that continues to build on what the Alliance started for better matching, such as a new vocational school. That is how we create competitiveness, growth and prosperity. Madam President, I would like It's got to pay off to train, and it's gonna pay off to work. This is the right thing to do, but it is also the best thing we can do to safeguard the welfare society. We're going to export goods and services, but we're not going to export our talents. They should prefer to stay in Sweden. Education and jobs should not only pay for men and in male-dominated occupations. It should also pay off in women-dominated occupations. It is about pre-school managers, primary teachers, secondary teachers, unit managers in the care of the elderly and middle managers in social services. It is those who work in women-dominated academic professions but take on a little more management responsibility that is the group in Sweden that has the longest education but is most mispaid and highly valued. What we can change is not exactly wages. The parties do. What we can change is the marginal taxes. They strike very hard for women in the women-dominated academic professions. Margin taxes must be reduced. Madam President, I would like Sweden faces major societal challenges both in the long and now also in the short term. I am concerned that the political situation in our country is now in danger of being driven towards even more polarisation. I am not concerned about tough debates. I can participate in them myself. It's no problem. But when the debate is over, we must together be able to get together and make decisions and take responsibility. I notice an increased fear of doing this. It is unfortunate, and it is a new situation in our country. There is also a need for more consensus in Swedish politics across block borders on important political issues. This is particularly true between the alliance parties and the Social Democrats. In addition to the talks on refugee policy that are now beginning this week, it should be about climate and energy policy and continued analysis of security policy in the new situation where parties change positions and we have new situations in Parliament. These are welfare gains, which we have discussed here, economic issues relating to labour market thresholds, rent regulation and interest rebates. Madam President, I would like Cross-block cooperation will certainly work to some extent with the present government constellation. However, I would like to say that my assessment is that cross-block cooperation on more issues would be facilitated if the Prime Minister were prepared to implement a government transformation in which the Green Party is allowed to leave the government and where the Left Party hooks in the close cooperation that exists. A number of the agreements that have been made between the Social Democrats and the other two parties make it difficult both in substance and by lowering confidence in what is being done. It's about profits in welfare, Bromma airport and whatever it can be. Madam President, I would like Let it be absolutely clear: I want Sweden to have an alliance government after the next elections. It could be 2018. It could be sooner. We don't know that. Then Sweden will have an alliance government. Before that election, the Alliance will present common political starting points. But I do not intend to contribute to Sweden having a domestic political crisis already within a few months. Madam President, I would like I will not stand and promise a political crisis in 12 months' time. It's not responsible. I want Sweden to have an alliance government. It'll be next time. We work for it when Sweden goes to elections. But to stand and promise crises in advance is not responsible. Madam President, I would like Political confrontation has its time, consensus has its own. The crises that Sweden is facing now require us to cooperate. The situation we are in now can quickly degenerate into an internal political chaos that we cannot afford right now. It is up to the parties of the Riksdag to now take responsibility and avoid it. We're ready.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-636	Madam President, I would like Jan Björklund says that more cooperation will be required for the best interests of Sweden. I can only agree. That's how things are, not least now. Sweden needs more party leaders who are prepared to say that they take responsibility in such a situation. Since becoming party leader for the Social Democrats, I have said that block politics is devastating for Sweden. It's just not good. I welcome the message that Jan Björklund is now giving here in the Swedish Parliament. However, I do not think that when you invite cooperation you should start by excluding some of the forces. So to my question, because the debate must, of course, continue. The government is now changing its focus on Sweden. Now we leave tax cuts and cuts. We're starting to invest. We invest not least in school and adult education. There, Sweden has an important task in the global economy to ensure that our level of competence is raised. It must be done right from the early ages up through the entire education system and into the labour market so that all people can keep up with globalisation. Next year, we'll invest 5 billion in school. The biggest investment is increased teacher salaries. We estimate that about 60 000 teachers can receive more than SEK 3 000 per month. It's a good bet. There we have a consensus with the People's Party, which I think is a good thing. But the school initiative as a whole from the People's Party is a bit troubling. You now want to cut school by 1.2 billion compared to the government budget. You are also cutting back on adult education. My question is: How does it improve the school, Jan Björklund? How do we increase the level of competence in Sweden by cutting down on school initiatives?
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-643	Madam President, I would like First of all, I make no demands on Stefan Löfven to kick out either one or the other party. I am not going to raise a motion of censure, as others do, against Fridolin or anyone else. But I give the Council that if you want more consensus seriously, it will make it easier if the Social Democrats and the Alliance talk to each other. These include differences in the view of economic growth. For example, I am prepared to subscribe to every word that Stefan Löfven says about nuclear power, that is to say, what he said before he became party chairman. There are many issues on which we could agree. But when it comes to the fact that Sjöstedt came and demanded a ban on profits in welfare, when it comes to you having to back away from the free school settlement and when it comes to the Green Party and Bromma airport, the Passage and other things, this is not just wrong in substance. You are moving away from what we have previously agreed on, and that is a loss of confidence. And it is just as I said last autumn, namely that it makes future cooperation more difficult. The success of the cooperation also depends on how you act. We have a very ambitious education budget. However, I note that we make a few different priorities. For example, we think it is more important to increase the quality of the university than to immediately expand the number of places even more. We already have a very extensive and expanded university, and now the search pressure is reduced because the youth litters are decreasing. We don't have enough quality in college. We invest more in teacher salaries in our budget than Stefan Lövven's government does. But the truth, Stefan Löfven, is that it is a huge failure for employers that the state must go in and pay wages. Surely that is the ultimate sign that the municipalisation of school has completely failed that the state must go in and pay for it because employers cannot do it? We should both draw that conclusion. As an old trade unionist, you must find it embarrassing that the state must do so. But it is the ultimate rejection of the municipalities that the state must enter and be an employer.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-647	Madam President, I would like I think we share the view that the state must take greater responsibility. That is what we are doing, and that is why the state needs to inject more resources into the school. But then it's wrong to pull resources out of school. Because that's what you're doing. There will be less resources, and there will be less resources not least for preschool. We need to make more early efforts because the best thing we can do for small children is to give them good early action. Then it'll be easier for them throughout the school. Even leisure education risks suffering here because you prioritise tax cuts instead of investing in school, and that is not good. Then the question is what's going away here. Should there be fewer educators in Fritis, or should we have larger children's groups in preschool? Is that the priority when you absolutely want to reduce taxes rather than invest?
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-650	Madam President, I would like I think Stefan Löfven has a wrong idea about how municipalities work. I've been a councillor for 12 years in the largest municipality. It is not that we sit there and make a small contribution to something and then it is just in a certain way. This goes into a large municipal budget, and then the municipality uses it. It is probably in different ways in different municipalities. Someone needs another recreation teacher, and someone else needs to reinforce elsewhere. This gives a completely incorrect view of how this works. The Swedish education system costs 230 – 240 billion each year. I think you have a few hundred million more than we have. You can't believe that's the crucial difference. Of course it's not. However, I note that the municipalities are not able to manage the school. No matter how much money you put in that bag, it doesn't work. Since Göran Persson's municipal school, the results have fallen continuously. It is time to renationalise the Swedish school.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-653	Madam President, I would like I have asked a number of questions here, and actually a very specific question, to Jan Björklund's colleagues among the so-called opposition parties within the Alliance. Now Jan Björklund has already anticipated my question and answered it. He has no intention whatsoever of bringing down any government because he is doing exactly the same analysis as Kinberg Batra, namely that if the alliance parties were to gain power, chaos would arise. I still find it very strange to reason that way. Jan Björklund also says that he is now not only a support party to Stefan Löfven. Now he's giving advice too. He is therefore both support party and advisor to Stefan Löfven. I do not know if this is what the voters of the People's Party had expected when they cast their vote on Jan Björklund's party. It's very possible. Let me, when Jan Björklund has nevertheless answered the question if he would like to change government as soon as possible, ask: Why is it better with a socialist budget, supported by Jonas Sjöstedt, Åsa Romson, Gustav Fridolin and not least Prime Minister Stefan Löfven, than a moderate budget?
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-656	Madam President, I would like A moderate budget is better than a socialist budget; I promise you that. The problem with this lies in the fact that the day after it has been voted through we are forced to form a government between the Alliance and the Swedish Democrats because it is this constellation that has won the budget vote. That's when it bursts right away. It is not that Jimmie Åkesson votes for the Moderates' budget because he shares the views of the Moderates' budget. Jimmie Åkesson's budget is completely different from that of the Moderates. Jimmie Åkesson votes for the Moderates' budget because he wants to cause chaos. That's the background. It is not that you, Jimmie Åkesson, share the view that we liberals have in a wide range of areas of society. You have totally the opposite vision. You want to do this now just because you want to cause chaos. This is the background. I don't want to. I think it is irresponsible to act in this situation. Of course, I prefer a bourgeois budget to a socialist budget. But I do not prefer the policy of the Swedish Democrats, and that is what governs this. It's one thing to vote here one day. But then a government will also work afterwards, and it will not. I want an alliance government in Sweden – do not doubt it – but it is based on the Alliance gathering a sufficient number of mandates in this House, and we are not doing so now. That was an effect of last year's elections. It is quite possible that there will be a choice before 2018, or it will be 2018. I will work day and night to make it an alliance government, but not together with the Swedish Democrats.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-661	Madam President, I would like All these fine words from the pulpit about consensus and that we have to find common solutions and so on do not really apply, but it is just talk from Jan Björklund's side. I'm sorry about that. As to whether there is a possibility of forming a government between us and the alliance parties, I have not thought so far, and I do not know what Jan Björklund knows that I do not know about the conditions for it. We've never talked about it. Maybe that's what you're supposed to do. Perhaps you should take your own words about discussions, talks and agreements seriously and actually do so. I think that is exactly what the voters expect of us here in the Swedish Parliament. But Jan Björklund obviously does not think so, even if he claims that that's how he wants it. What is so much more responsible than voting for a moderate budget? Why is it more responsible to vote for a socialist budget, Jan Björklund?
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-664	Madam President, I would like I will vote for the Liberals' budget. I will not vote for a socialist budget. I say this again: of course, I also prefer a moderate budget to a Social Democratic one, although I think that the People's Party is the best. But it's not about that. It is about that once it has been voted through, Sweden will have a new government, and the government base that has voted through it will not work because Jimmie Åkesson has a completely different idea of how the policy should be conducted. Jimmie Åkesson is voting for the Moderates' budget just to piss off. It will be made a chaos or a new election where Jimmie Åkesson's party hopes to be bigger. Then it becomes even more difficult to control Sweden. I promise you. That's what you're after, Jimmie Åkesson. You are not looking for Sweden to have a liberal policy. That is not why you are voting on the liberal draft budget. You're doing it because you want to cause chaos, and I don't want to.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-667	Madam President, I would like You know what to say, and I know what Jan Björklund will answer. Let me therefore ask the following question: can the leader of the People's Party make a popular-party proposal for the climate that is not about nuclear energy?
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-668	Madam President, I would like I can certainly do that. European cooperation is incredibly important, and it was fortunate that the Green Party lost in the referendum on the European Union.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-669	The most important work for the climate, in addition to the issues that are decided here at home, is done at international level. But Sweden is a very small country in general. We have a climate-neutral energy supply, at least until Gustav Fridolin has put his teeth in it. This means that, together in Europe, we must face up to the major challenges. We are the party in Sweden that is prepared to give even more power to the EU agencies on issues of this kind, among other things. Common problems in Europe must be resolved jointly.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-670	Madam President, I would like One should be glad that the Swedish Food Safety Agency or some others do not put the best before dates on parties, because when the popular party leader would mention a popular party proposal for the climate that was not about nuclear power, he had to go back to 1994. I am pleased that we agree that the European Union needs stronger muscles in terms of the climate. My party has made that journey. From the very first day of the European Parliament, environmental partners voted in favour of, for example, having minimum levels of CO2 tax and other things in the EU. But if I ask the question this way: Can the leader of the People's Party mention a popular party proposal to reduce the Swedish climate emissions that are not about nuclear energy in Sweden?
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-673	Madam President, I would like From the alliance government, we put forward proposals for high-speed trains in Sweden. It is clear that more public transport and fast and modern traffic is an important part, but if we are to have more train traffic and more electric cars we must actually have electricity, Gustav Fridolin. The high-speed trains can't stay on the rails as soon as it doesn't blow. That is the problem with your energy policy. Finally, it is not possible to get around this. There is no single issue for the foreseeable future where Sweden's own decisions will affect the climate as much as energy supply. Sweden is an example in the world. We do not emit carbon dioxide because we have so much hydro and nuclear power and now also some renewables. But if you're going to shut down nuclear power, you're going to land in German coal power, Russian gas or something else. That is the problem with your climate policy. I'm sure you want it, but it's not credible in real life.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-675	Madam President, I would like Swedish military alliance freedom has served us well, and it serves us well. It has meant that we have been able to stand outside wars and conflicts, and above all it is the basis for an independent and active foreign policy in which Sweden can be clear as a nation when the rights of nations are violated as we see in Ukraine during the Russian aggression from Putin but also in Turkey where Erdogan's rule uses the crude violence against the Kurdish population. It gives us a voice. It gives us credibility. Jan Björklund is the one who is most for NATO in the Swedish Parliament. Perhaps he is also the least critical politician of US foreign policy. You were one of the cheerers of the US invasion of Iraq, which has had devastating consequences for the region. I've never heard you criticise America's support for Latin American dictators. But even though you're trying to be the toughest sheriff in town, and you're for NATO most of all, I think it's flawed. I don't think you're a real NATO supporter, Jan Björklund. I think there's something missing here. When we say that NATO is a defence commitment, which in turn means that you can be forced to defend others who are being attacked, like Turkey, you say: well, that is perhaps the case with that. When we point out that NATO is based on nuclear weapons and that NATO countries have nuclear weapons on their territory, you say: we can avoid that. You want the benefits of alliance freedom without admitting that you have abandoned it. Then NATO membership is an expectation of spending 2% of gross domestic product on military defence. It is a renovation of between SEK 35 billion and SEK 40 billion per year, i.e. an enormous amount of money. Are you the toughest sheriff in town, Jan Björklund? Are you prepared to draw up 40 billion and put in the defense budget? And where is the money going to be taken? It is also a legitimate question.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-680	Madam President, I would like I can't believe Jonas Sjöstedt never mentioned the concern for Russia and Putin. Never, ever. It is an unparalleled no-one over the Western military alliance that secured democracy in Europe throughout the post-war period when it was threatened by communism. There is never, on the part of Sjöstedt, any problematisation of what Putin does. Try sometime in the next line to say something critical about Putin! We will listen carefully. This is the background, Jonas Sjöstedt. Russia is no longer acting as we hoped Russia would do and as they did under Jeltsin. It was a mess in Russia when they were going from a planned economy to a market economy, but they were heading in the right direction in terms of democratisation and involvement in the Western world. Now it's going the wrong way. That is why we need to increase our security. I think that the defence decision that the government and my bourgeois brothers and sisters have agreed on is inadequate, but it does not matter if you spend even more money, because there is nothing that would almost strengthen Sweden's security as much as NATO membership. Norway and Denmark have the entire Western defence capability in their backs if they are exposed to threats. We only have ourselves. And Jonas Sjöstedt thinks that what we have is too much. We need to understand this. We have been living in a new Europe for a few years now, and it has gradually worsened. The Baltic states thank their god that they had time to join NATO before Russia became really mean. Ukraine has now submitted an application for membership. It is of course too late, because now there are probably Russian-oriented troops in Ukraine where there is a war. Now you want to join, and you regret that you didn't do it before. NATO provides greater security and security for us. NATO does not solve all the world's problems, Jonas Sjöstedt, but it solves some important problems, and that is why we should be involved.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-685	Madam President, I would like An eternity is a short time in Jan Björklund's world. He claims that I have never ever criticized Putin, but during my last line that lasted a minute and 45 seconds I did. I think it is Jan Björklund who lets himself be governed by Putin's politics. I think he loves armament and confrontation-- it's his worldview that confirms that it's that way. I don't think Putin should be allowed to run our policy. Temporary things in the outside world should not mean reconsidering a policy that has been successful in the long term. More than ever, the world needs countries that stand up for human rights, whether it be Russia, Ukraine, Turkey or any other country. But, Jan Björklund, the question is nevertheless: 2% of bnp is expected in military expenditure. Even you who want to spend most of the time don't come up to those levels. Do you think, yes or no, that Sweden should increase its defence expenditure to 2 percent of gross domestic product? And if so, where will the money be taken from? Because it's a lot of money.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-688	Madam President, I would like We are increasing defence spending in our budget exercise, but not to that level. I can tell you that the majority of NATO countries do not meet that requirement either, but they are roughly at the Swedish level or somewhat higher. It is true that the United States demands this from other countries, but Norway does not. But we need to increase defence spending. Jonas Sjöstedt has always voted in favour of lowering them, and I think that is the wrong way to go. Jonas Sjöstedt usually says that if you are a member of NATO and you no longer have your own foreign policy, you are in the White House's lead band. Excuse me, but we can take Norway as an example. They are members of NATO, and they have a very independent foreign policy. But when it comes to the fact that all European heads of state and all European countries would be in the lead band of the United States, I have to say: My God, Jonas Sjöstedt, have you never met a Frenchman?
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-691	Madam President, I would like People are fleeing war and persecution to an extent that we have not seen since World War II. People are forced to leave everything to seek refuge. They leave their homes in the hope of finding a new one. Several people have already spoken here today about the acute refugee crisis that we are in the midst of. As we have previously noted, the people fleeing war and persecution are not helped by a government fleeing reality. We need a policy of migration with both the heart and the brain, which ensures that we can help both today and tomorrow. That's what we're gonna do. But we also need a migration policy that eases the pressure on Swedish asylum reception. We need a policy that not only welcomes people here but also welcomes people home. Reforms are needed to make it easier to move from grants to work and to lower thresholds into the labour market. We need a policy that invests in people who intend to live their lives here also acquiring the most important key to a home, namely the Swedish language. The Christian Democrats have several concrete proposals in our budget option. We want to replace permanent residence permits with temporary residence permits, which could reduce pressure on Sweden and put pressure on other countries to take greater responsibility. By more people taking responsibility, it will be a better reception for asylum seekers. Our proposal means that the decision should be reviewed once after three years. Those who then have continued to need protection or have had time to enter the labour market may stay. We want to introduce a system of safe countries for shorter processing times at the Migration Agency. Furthermore, we want to increase the incentives for young people and those who are far removed from the labour market to take their first job. People entering the labour market will earn their first half million tax-free. This applies to persons up to 25 years of age and new arrivals. For the long-term unemployed, we want to introduce a double job tax deduction. We want to reduce employers' contributions for young people under the age of 22. And we defend the important service sector by expanding RUT and maintaining ROT and are in favour of job-creating reforms that the government wants to demolish or completely oppose. These are suggestions that not only welcome people here but also home. In the school area, we want to make a special effort to educate teachers in Swedish as a second language. We want to introduce sfi with child care and sfi with a professional orientation. Madam President, I would like When we Christian Democrats talk about the importance of the home in this way, it is nothing fundamentally new. We have talked about the need for a community to keep our society together. We have talked about families as the foundation stone of Sweden. Sometimes we've talked about those things as if they were separate from each other. But in reality they are inseparable — home, family, and fellowship. A home is not just a place where you throw in your things. We are connected to our home precisely through our families and the community we have experienced there. And we carry it with us wherever the world takes us. The feeling or desire to have a home is universal. The community is basically the good thing that means that human life is not alone, poor, brutal or short. That's why I want to tell you about my home. It's not Stockholm, even if I have an apartment here. My home is where Västgötaslätten meets Småland. It is a small farm that has been managed for seven generations, outside the community Mullsjö in Jönköping County. There I was born into a community that met me already as a child. My parents did what they could to teach me to distinguish right from wrong. I was given conditions that I wish every child in Sweden would have. In the local floorball team, Mullsjö AIS, I understood the importance of working as a team and that everyone is needed when achieving a goal. It gave me and my friends self - respect and respect for others, for which I am grateful. Madam President, I would like Here in Stockholm there is no mention of rural challenges and of the crisis for Swedish dairy farmers in the same way as where I come from. Here it becomes something abstract. But there it is one of us, one of ours, who is in danger of having to walk away from the yard and the ground, who may be forced to close down because of decisions that we take or do not take in this room. I don't know any farmer who wants to produce milk in the same way as in Germany or Denmark. Let us therefore compensate Sweden's farmers for the strict rules and additional costs that we have imposed on them in this House. We Christian Democrats want to invest 1 billion in the coming years to save Swedish milk and preserve Swedish countryside and our open landscapes. When you know who is affected and how the communities are bursting, you speak in a different way on these issues. Madam President, I would like At home, too, we are not talking about family policy in the same way as in this House. Here we are talking about parental insurance as if it were a tool for politicians to realise their ideas on gender equality. At home, however, parental insurance is a way of giving children a good welcome into their first and most important community – the family. It is a way to give children time, closeness and love. The most important thing there is to be there for the child. How to do that and who takes the most parenting days is subordinate. But when the government comes in and forcefully quotas parental insurance, it sounds different in Mullsjö and in many other places in our country than it does here. One wonders what will happen to those of us who are self-employed, who cannot just leave their company for months. Why should children in those families have less time with their parents? You also wonder what happens to families where one parent may be without a job and the family depends on a salary. Should they be forced to shoot at their child's luck because clumping politicians create insurance systems that are adapted to fix even stacks? When you see how this affects the Community, you speak in a different way on these issues. Nor does it talk about civil society in the same way as it sometimes does in the political circles. Here, civil society often becomes just another part or an extension of the state. Politicians want to direct and make targeted contributions and efforts so that civil society makes the policy's bid. But at home, civil society is something we do together. The boys and girls play floorball, not primarily because it's good for the state but because it's fun and gives a community. Sport and civil society represent huge social efforts that should never be underestimated. We therefore want to see increased support for sport. But we don't want to earmark the money the government does. This only leads to increased bureaucracy. Civil society needs to be supported but not aligned. You talk differently about the associations when you have grown up in them. Madam President, I would like Politics has its limits. It should not, through Parliament, command people to start talking about each other in terms of us. Politics cannot create a home for people. The community grows out of shared experiences and in the everyday encounter with our neighbour, not through legislation. Home, family and community – we Christian Democrats understand how they are tied to each other. Unfortunately, the government does not. And that, Madam President, will have consequences.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-712	Madam President, I would like Andreas Carlson is the last out of the bourgeois petty parties to get the same question that his colleagues in the bourgeois alliance have received today. During the day, I have also noted that Andreas Carlson's party chairman, Ebba Busch Thor, has said that we want to see a common alliance budget next year. That is a step in the right direction. It is said that the bourgeoisie is prepared to convict the government by 2018. The word last means that something could happen before 2018. I do not know what that would be, but this could be a way of bringing down the socialist government. Then my rather simple question to Andreas Carlson is: Why wait a year? The possibility already exists. Why let the socialist parties destroy the country even more for a year? Why not bring down the government this autumn?
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-715	Madam President, I would like I think it is a good order to vote for one's own policy. The Christian Democrats have presented a budget this year. It is a budget that we are proud of, a budget that includes investment in jobs and entrepreneurship. It is an extremely important key for us to be able to welcome people here but also welcome people home. In my speech, I presented some suggestions in our budget. We will vote on our budget. We have no information other than what has been given before. We will vote for the Christian Democrats' budget. It would be a strange order if we were now to start voting on the policies of other parties, although there are certainly many good proposals in the Moderates' budget as well. But we will vote on our budget.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-718	Madam President, I would like We will also be voting on our budget. But it is when it falls that our party, the Christian Democrats and the other opposition parties in this Assembly will be in a firm position. We have a parliamentary situation where the government does not have majority support in the Swedish parliament. There is no socialist majority in the Swedish parliament. Yet the bourgeois parties are likely to choose to pass the socialist budget. You do that with strange explanations. This is done by referring to the fact that chaos would otherwise arise. I do not understand how one might think that chaos would arise for voting in favour of one's own policy or for the policy which, together with a number of other parties, has, after all, been put to elections. For me, it's very strange. But why wait a whole year to bring down the socialist government and actually bring about a change in the real world?
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-722	Madam President, I would like Jimmie Åkesson, I have no other wish than what my alliance colleagues have said before. We'll stick together. The Alliance is extremely important for the influence of the Christian Democrats on Swedish politics. During two terms of office, we showed how we could get Christian Democratic politics through in Sweden, and we will continue to pursue that. We will continue to work together in the Alliance. When the time comes to present an alliance budget, we will have to agree in the Alliance and then come back. It would be a very tricky order if we were to suddenly start voting for the politics of other parties. We have presented a budget of which we are proud. We will vote for it, defend and fight for it. We will be working in active opposition to have an impact on the policy that we are pursuing. As we have heard during the debate today, together with the other alliance parties, we will also hold talks with the government on the acute refugee crisis that we are in the midst of. We continue to take responsibility. The Christian Democrats will do so, and we will vote in favour of our budget.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-725	Madam President, I would like Amnesty has published a new report showing a few more pictures of what the war in Syria means. The pictures show people who are allowed to settle in underground bunkers to save themselves from aerial bombings, starvation, thirst, oil barrels bombs against schools and hospitals, mosques and market squares. Then there are also physical images that will never disappear from the retina: body parts spread over different squares and children without heads. It's the hell people run from. At the same time, IS continues the persecution of Christians, Yazidians, Kurds, women, Shia Muslims and all who do not fall into the taste of their militant logic. The war spreads to refugee camps where boys are recruited into child soldiers and girls are married away. Sweden will then provide support directly to the refugee camps, via a safe haven for people who come to our country. It is not always easy, but neither was it when we gave a sanctuary to those who fled from Pinochets's dictatorship or the genocide in the Balkans. But we can do it, and if we do it right, we know that the people who come today will soon be involved in building Sweden. In this work I have always seen the Christian Democrats as an ally of values. I myself have worked closely with Christian Democrats in the work of refugees. Here in Parliament, we have acted together with various governments for a humane refugee policy. We have also worked practically in congregations that help people on the run. The Christian Democrats are now saying that they have changed parts of their refugee policy. Andreas Carlson reported several times that they want to reduce pressure on Sweden. I would like to ask the question: Does this mean that the Christian Democrats think that Sweden should help fewer people? There's no need for more people to do more, because that's where we feel the same. All the countries of the European Union must do their bit to take responsibility for the people who are coming, so that we can help more people. But is it the Christian Democrats' policy that Sweden should do less, that in the crisis that we are now seeing in the world we should give help to fewer refugees?
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-730	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Gustav Fridolin, for your question! You started by describing the situation, and it's terrible. It is a tremendous tragedy that is taking place in our eyes. That is why we Christian Democrats have said that we in Sweden must be prepared to do more. We have to hit the root of people running. Therefore, in our budget option, we present efforts to extend the training efforts made with the help of the Swedish Armed Forces. However, we must also be prepared to further strengthen our work in the field of peace and security conservation. We have exemplified this. In the speech of Almedalsveckan, we presented the proposal to make JAS aircraft available if we were to have a request – this to hit the roots. Of course, we need a request from the international coalition. The Christian Democrats believe that we should be prepared to do so. We are also redistributing our aid budget. We want to strengthen the funding for the UNHCR by an additional 1⁄2 billion in view of the enormous tragedy and the huge influx of refugees that we are now seeing. We must strengthen efforts to combat the roots by participating in the on-the-spot assistance work in the emergency situation. But if the question was whether we from Sweden should help fewer people, the answer is no. We must ensure that more countries take greater responsibility. There we have put forward proposals on temporary residence permits and safe countries. There are certainly other proposals that we can implement here in Sweden and that would in practice put our responsibilities under pressure from other countries to take greater responsibility. More people must be involved in taking responsibility in Europe.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-734	Madam President, I would like I fully share the view that Sweden should do more together with the international community in the direct situation and that more EU countries should do more. The Swedish Government has consistently pursued this, and no less than two decisions have been taken at EU level that are historic compared to how the EU has acted in refugee situations in the past. More people can do more. The reason that more people are going to do more is that we are going to be able to help more people. I find it difficult to see how more EU countries would help if Sweden reduced its aid to refugees. When you made your proposals in Almedalen, your party chairman, Ebba Busch Thor, said that she thought it would mean that fewer refugees would go to Sweden and that she thought it would be good. It is something quite different from what I have heard from Christian Democrats over all the years that I have worked with them in refugee policy and which I hear directly from Christian Democratic grass roots in the assemblies that I meet.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-738	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask Mr Fridolin's question in my previous speech. I note that we are facing an acute refugee crisis that is greater than the crisis we saw during the Second World War. Then it is extremely important that we ensure that other EU countries take greater responsibility. It is also important that we take seriously the signals that I described earlier in my change of line with the Prime Minister. If we are to continue to protect transparency and humanity, we must also ensure that we both welcome people here and welcome people home. That is why we need a policy of migration with a heart and a brain that ensures that we are able to help people to work. That is why I think it is so irresponsible for the government to put forward proposals that strike at jobs and entrepreneurship. The jobs and companies are the largest integration engine, and we in the Christian Democrats want to work to protect it. That is why we will be voting on our budget.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-743	Madam President, I would like Parliament has to take a position in this report on a Nordic balance sheet. The report contains, in particular, proposals for amendments to the Electricity Act, which will create legal conditions for such a common balance sheet. The Swedish Democrats are in favour of such enhanced cooperation. This provides the conditions for the continued development of a common Nordic electricity market with Norway and Finland. Cooperation also creates good conditions for security of energy supply. Against this background, we are in favour of the main proposals made in the bill, but believe that one point requires clarification from the Riksdag. According to the Government's proposal, the transmission system operator authority, the Swedish power network, will have to assign someone else to carry out the balance sheet. In order to create the conditions for a common Nordic balance sheet, Svenska Kraftnät has therefore initiated a collaboration with the Norwegian and Finnish core network companies and formed a company for that particular purpose. The company is owned by one third of the respective core network companies. The Government's proposal is based on cooperation in a Nordic perspective, and the intention is initially clear to everyone. The Swedish Democrats have no objection to this being done in the proposed way, but we believe it is urgent that the Riksdag makes it clear that the balance sheet should not be carried out by any actor outside the joint Nordic cooperation. In dealing with the motion that we have raised in connection with this, and which is rejected in the report, the reason for the rejection of the motion is that the joint venture has a firm Nordic foundation through the current ownership relationship and that the Riksdag therefore does not need to make it clear that the balance sheet is not carried out by any actor outside the Nordic cooperation. However, Madam President, the amendments that are now being implemented in the Electricity Act do not specifically mention the company in question in the proposal. It also does not specify rules on the place of business of the company or the ownership of the company. In an extension, the open mandate in the legislation may mean further expansion outside the Nordic electricity market where the Riksdag does not need to be consulted. It is a concern that the Swedish Democrats have that the position of the Riksdag is reduced. The Swedish Democrats' view is therefore that the Riksdag, together with the amendment of the law, should request the Government to ensure that the transmission system operator authority does not appoint any actor outside the joint Nordic cooperation to carry out the balance sheet. Having said that, I would like to call for reservation 1 in the report.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-750	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by calling for the committee's proposal in the report to be approved and for the motion to be rejected. This bill is mainly about continuing work on a Nordic electricity market. There are important gains in having a Nordic electricity market. A larger electricity market increases the conditions for a well-functioning market where efficiency means that consumers do not have to pay excessive prices. A larger electricity market also increases security of supply, and the need for back-up power in each country is decreasing, all for the benefit of consumers and the climate. The changes proposed here are quite technical in nature. Swedish power grids shall be given the opportunity to assign the balance sheet to another operator. The proposal describes the background to the proposal. The purpose is for the balance sheet to be carried out by a joint company where Svenska Kraftnät owns one third and its counterparts in Finland and Norway own equal shares. The whole proposal aims, as I began by saying, to enable a better functioning Nordic electricity market. The transmission system operator authority, the Swedish power network, shall continue to be responsible for ensuring that the balance sheet is carried out in a manner consistent with the exercise of the overall system responsibility in Sweden and that the balance sheet is carried out in a manner consistent with the provisions of the Electricity Act. We therefore see no reason to support the motion by the Swedish Democrats, but to call for its rejection. The changes proposed here thus represent a step towards a better functioning Nordic electricity market. There appears to be significant gains in a common balance sheet, partly because it takes place in one place rather than in several places, which leads to a reduction in administration, and partly because, in the long term, the regulatory framework for the various countries can be harmonised. The aim is therefore to make the single market more efficient and to make it easier for electricity dealers and balance managers who want to operate in several Nordic countries. But it will take further steps for it to work optimally and for it to really be as simple as we want. At least this bill is a first step. Finally, the proposal also proposes that the Swedish Energy Agency should take over the task of providing control data on the disposal of electricity certificates. The change is natural because the Swedish Energy Agency has taken over the task of accounting authority for electricity certificates from Swedish power grids. We therefore also welcome this proposal.
i-cccd93ea958cd6f9-757	Madam President, I would like Last night we heard from EU Energy Commissioner Š ef č ovi č that the Nordic region is an example of the European energy market. However, we still face several challenges. We need to cooperate even more, we need to harmonise our regulations and we need to remove regulatory constraints in order for the Nordic electricity market to function even more optimally than it does today. We therefore call for the proposal to be approved and for the reservation to be rejected.
