i-a0f13767aa7060d1-4	Mr President, I would like to The citizens whom we represent in this House want us to talk more about our own proposals and less about the proposals of our political opponents. That is why I intended to talk in my main speech about what challenges we see in the Moderates and what proposals we have to meet these challenges linked to the general contributions to municipalities, county councils and regions, which we are discussing here today. Sweden is often described as one of the world's best countries to grow up in. But we also see that Sweden faces several major challenges in the future. We see a new exclusion that is emerging, a new exclusion that means that young people, born abroad and those without education are increasingly finding it difficult to enter the labour market. These people are at risk of long-term structural unemployment, and we as politicians must face this new exclusion with strong measures. The Moderates have put forward several proposals to do just that. Some of these proposals are first job deductions, continued reductions in employers' contributions for young people who will get their very first job, first job contracts and maintained levels for RUT and ROT. Mr President, I would like to Today we are discussing general grants to municipalities and county councils. For a couple of years I have had the privilege of being elected as a representative in Region Skåne. Those of us who are or have been county politicians know that no tax increases in the world can correspond to the efforts that need to be made in the welfare of the future. On the other hand, more people are needed in work, more people are needed to pay taxes and more who can contribute. More workers create more resources to the core of welfare, while reducing the resources needed in benefit systems. In this way, we can ensure the long-term secure financing of welfare. Of the total income of municipalities last year, state subsidies accounted for approximately 10 per cent. This is to be set against tax revenue accounting for about 65%. It is therefore important that tax revenues are further strengthened. I would like to make it clear here that it is not about the tax being higher, but about more paying tax. Municipalities, county councils and regions face many challenges in the future. We see demographic development with an ageing population. We need more people who want to train in health care and who continue to work in health care throughout their working lives. We need to be able to offer healthcare workers more freedom of choice. We can do this, for example, through health care choices, which lead to more employers being made to choose between within the framework of tax-funded health care. Mr President, I would like to The goal of the Moderates is to increase the prosperity and security of all citizens of Sweden. The reform proposals we are presenting are therefore focused on how the jobs will become more. We want to reduce exclusion and strengthen incentives to work by standing up for reasonable tax levels that strengthen the individual's power over his or her own life and spending, increase investment in education and safeguard the business environment. Almost SEK 93.4 billion will be allocated to municipalities and county councils through state grants. This money comes from you sitting in this chamber, from you sitting in the gallery, from you watching TV or from you watching the web. There is no self-interest in ensuring that this pot is as large as possible if resources can be used more efficiently and contribute to more tax revenue elsewhere. The driving forces for jobs and entrepreneurship need to increase further, and in line with this, the municipalities' and county councils' own tax revenues will increase. The Moderates consider that, in view of what I have said, the appropriation of 1:1 Municipal economic equalization should be reduced by SEK 107 million compared with the Government's proposal. This money will be used for investments in other policy areas to strengthen jobs and growth. The general contributions should be adjusted as follows: j obbstimulance in support of subsistence, extension of general preschool, ten-year primary school, increased teaching time in mathematics and maintenance of high cost protection in care for the elderly. Finally, I would like to point out that in principle all the Moderates' proposals strengthen the opportunities for people to get into work. These are both job incentives and training measures. This is how we build Sweden strongly.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-15	Mr President, I would like to It is a good thing to talk about your own policy and explain what you want our country to look like, what opportunities our municipalities should have and how well-being should be built. Of course, it also justifies and explains why policies should be pursued in a certain way and why investments or cuts should be made in different areas of activity. In the particular opinion that the Moderates have written on this matter, they state that they represent a different path. It becomes quite clear that this is the case. It is a completely different Sweden that the Moderates want to build than what we Social Democrats see before us. We can see that these are cuts in municipal adult education, cuts in county councils, cuts in women's health and cuts in mental illness among children and young adults. Ulrika Heindorff told me here that she has experience from Region Skåne – this is both her and my part of the country – and that she has experience in county policy. All the tax cuts that you are now proposing correspond to all health care and primary care in Region Skåne for a full year. So much you want to reduce the welfare of our country. Why is it better for Sweden, Ulrika?
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-20	Mr President, I would like to I thank Niklas Karlsson for his reply. It is classical social democratic rhetoric to set tax cuts against a strengthened welfare. Hang on, Niklas! During the reign of the Alliance, tax revenues increased by as much as 36 per cent between 2006 and 2014, thus far more than inflation of 10 per cent. It is very simple rhetoric to say: let us increase the tax. Then we automatically get a better welfare. You wish it was that simple, but it's not. The main thesis of the Social Democrats is always that increased taxes automatically provide better welfare. How amazing if it had been! I will come back to what I said in my main speech, namely that we need more people in work, more people who can contribute and more people who can pay taxes. There is a big difference between the options of the current Red-Green Government and those of the opposition parties in the Alliance. We have very different views on this. It can also be mentioned in this context that the average tax rate in 2015 has increased by 0.13 percentage points. This is equivalent to SEK 2 billion. But the total tax revenue, thanks to more people in work, has increased by 18 billion. It is a fairly good comparison, and it makes the problem clear.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-26	Mr President, I would like to There are a lot of numbers on the side of the Moderates, Ulrika Heindorff. If you are quick in your head, you can see that even if you add up all the sums you are talking about now, you will never get up in the 140 billion dollars that you have reduced the tax by over eight years. You said in your speech that we should talk about our own politics. I think that's reasonable. Yet you come back to the fact that we Social Democrats have a very simple rhetoric. It is not that we think that people should not support themselves or that we should not have more people working. I can tell when I read the third quarter national accounts that we have a GDP growth of 3.9%. Households' disposable income has grown by 3 1⁄2 per cent from one year ago. We have 81 000 more people in work than in 2014. Unemployment is falling. It is not the case that social democratic policy means that people become unemployed. It means increasing employment and growth and reducing unemployment. It also means that we add more resources to the welfare – unlike the Moderates and the other bourgeois parties, whose only answer is tax cuts. That has been mentioned for eight years. You don't have any new thinking, you keep doing this. My clear message as a social democrat is that the future never starts with a no.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-33	Mr President, I would like to We will come back to the fact that tax cuts are gladly set against increased welfare. I do not see the contradiction that the Social Democrats are demonstrably seeing. We have a high tax rate in Sweden. We have the highest tax burden on labour of the EU's 28 Member States. This applies overall to GDP as a proportion of total tax revenue. In addition, Sweden has the world's highest marginal taxes. Nevertheless, in its budget proposal, the government chooses to increase the marginal tax rate further by stepping down the employment tax deduction. As far as pensioners are concerned, I am pleased to say that during the reign of the Alliance we reduced the tax on pensioners five times – and this without having to increase the tax on those who work. Now there is a reduction in the tax, but there is a risk that it will be eaten up by the increase in the maximum tax that you do in the home service. I think it's a lot of talk and some hockey. Getting the economy together in everyday life is an important issue for many older people. This government now chooses to raise the tax ceiling in the home care service, and this increases costs up to $2,500 (U.S.). I would very much like to talk about the Moderates' own politics. That's what I spent my whole speech on. But it is clear that it must also be possible to respond to the government's policy and the proposals put forward by the government. I hope I have done that in a good way now.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-38	Mr President, I would like to Being elected in charge of a municipality's activities is one of the most important political tasks. School, care and care are really the core business of society. It is therefore important that we in Parliament ensure long-term financing so that municipalities can deliver good quality and develop their operations. The most important thing for a healthy local government sector is that more jobs are created in new and growing companies. Our municipalities will then receive new resources in the form of tax revenue. However, government subsidies are also an important source of income for municipalities. The Center Party is very clear: we want a decentralised society. We believe in people's ability to take responsibility for themselves and for others. Decentralization is about moving power closer to people's everyday lives. We are also very clear about defending local self-government. For us, it is obvious that the inhabitants should be able to influence their own municipality's priorities but also demand responsibility from those who are politically responsible. Municipal self-government is the basis for how Sweden should be governed according to Chapter 1. Section 1, the form of government. In the early 1990s, municipal self-government was the strongest. Almost all state subsidies were put in the so-called bag. The reason was that many contributions with different rules created inefficiency. The idea then was that it was better to talk about what was to be done and then let the municipalities and county councils decide how it was to be implemented. Now this approach seems to have been forgotten. Over the years, all governments, regardless of colour, have increased the number of targeted contributions. A recent example of the skewed distribution between general and targeted state grants is the budget presented by the government for 2016. 24 new grants have been added, and together with previous decisions, the number of targeted state grants is now over 80. Many municipalities are concerned about this development. SKL's Social Democratic President Lena Micko says in Today's Society Nos 34 and 39: ..................................................... Sweden's municipalities are different. Nevertheless, targeted state subsidies are designed as if the conditions are the same throughout the country. There is no room for local adjustment of contributions. The consequences of prioritising special-destination state grants will be that there are funds to be sought for measures that are not always the highest in the municipal priority. Småkom now reports that differences in the use of targeted state grants are increasing. Municipalities in southern Sweden participate more often than municipalities in northern Sweden. Larger cities participate more than other municipalities. The municipalities state that the biggest obstacle to participation is when they have to contribute their own money in order to receive the state grants. But the increasing red tape in the form of applications and accounts also affects, especially since the grants granted may be so small that they do not solve the real problem. This means that new tasks are imposed on municipalities without the state ensuring that there are resources for the municipalities to cope with them. What does it mean in the long term if more municipalities do not feel able to benefit from targeted state grants? The Center Party believes that contributions from the state to the municipalities should be made to the general state grants. The state should not regulate in detail how municipalities use state subsidies, but instead provide funds in the so-called bag. The municipalities have the ability to direct funds themselves to the activities that citizens need most. The reasonable way to create a trustful responsibility between the state and the municipalities requires clear state objectives, the freedom of the municipality to use the money as efficiently as possible and regular monitoring and evaluation. Municipal self-government also has another important function. By having to prioritise and take political responsibility for their decisions as a municipal politician, the coming generation of politicians who later take responsibility for the country develops. But the state is entering into the same grant movement as before the overall state grant. Earmarked money creates inefficiencies while government pointers cause many local politicians to lose interest. When it becomes more difficult to recruit elected representatives, the conditions for good leadership deteriorate, and democracy weakens. Mr President, I would like to What we see is the political ambition of government and ministers to address specific problems in the municipal area. But the question is whether it also shows an ever-lowering confidence in the capacity of local politicians. Is it an expression of reduced trust in our political colleagues in municipalities and county councils making the right priorities? The Center Party is clear on this issue: we believe in the ability of local politicians to prioritise in their activities. Involvement in self-government in an unfortunate way undermines local adaptation and accountability. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, all the decisions in this House will also be local politics.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-56	Mr President, I would like to After eight years of rule by the Liberals and the Alliance, Sweden stands strong. Public finances are in order, the employment rate is very high, people have more money in their wallets and we are well equipped to meet the challenges ahead. At the same time, we have an uncertain world with an American economy which we do not really know where it is going, disturbances in Asia and China, a defence situation with regard to Russia and Ukraine, and, of course, the alarming European refugee crisis which is bringing new questions to the whole European economy. At home we see increased costs of sick leave. They are increasing as no one could have imagined, and this causes great concern about the state's budget and the budgets of the municipalities. We see increased costs nationally, regionally and locally for the European refugee crisis and the fact that many people are currently seeking asylum in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to In addition to this, Sweden has a great challenge in that more and more people are getting older. It is basically something very positive that we live a long time and can add a number of healthy years after the 65th anniversary to do fun things in life. However, this also means that the costs of care and health care are at risk of increasing to a very large extent. To this we now add that we have refugee reception in the municipalities and pressures on welfare linked to many people now seeking to Sweden. In this situation, the government and the Minister for Finance, Magdalena Andersson, are choosing to abandon the conviction of stable public finances. As late as this weekend, the Minister of Finance announced that the policy no longer applies that we should take responsibility for the costs here and now. According to her, we're going to pass the costs on to future generations. Mr President, I would like to I think that's the wrong way to go. At this point in time, we need to take responsibility for not using tomorrow's taxpayers' money, but here and now we are going to take responsibility for the issues that we have here and now to face. That's why the Liberals' budget motion is tight. We propose a lower spending ceiling than the government does. We have higher financial savings than the government has. We do not do that because we want to save for the sake of saving. We believe that it is taking responsibility here and now for the questions that Sweden has to answer and also for us not to pass on the costs to future generations. We can propose this policy because we say no to much of the ineffective policy pursued by the government. The government is now raising taxes by over SEK 30 billion not to finance essentially the core of welfare but to spend that money on inefficient building subsidies or typical Social Democratic Ampolitik which we are already seeing does not provide new jobs. I think it was a trainee place and two who had received the so-called training contract. It's not well-invested money for the future. Mr President, I would like to Instead, we are investing in the future on the Liberal side by saying that we want a ten-year primary school. In this budget and to what we are discussing here and now, we are also spending money on the municipalities. It is 1 1⁄2 billion fully built to allow us to afford the introduction of ten-year primary school. We do this because we want to invest in Sweden and invest in Sweden. In parallel, we invest in Sweden by making it more profitable to work and train. Against this are the government's historically high tax increases and the government's classic Social Democratic Ampolitik and construction subsidies that no man or developer has asked for and which are not to invest and make Sweden stronger for the future. Mr President, I would like to We are now in a position where we have stable public finances. We have high employment rates and a Swedish economy that is tough on. In this situation, it is important to see that we have before us large increases in costs at the heart of welfare, in health care and in care. We have increased costs of sick leave and also increased costs of migration and integration. At this point, it is important to make the right choices. It is in my world to take responsibility for Sweden's finances and invest Sweden strongly for the future by investing in knowledge and that it will pay off to educate and work. Mr President, I would like to The government does exactly the opposite. On point after point, it makes it less profitable to work and to train. The tax increases introduced are not used to invest in the core of welfare but to spend that money on inefficient labour market policies and building subsidies. This is not how we build Sweden strong. Mr President, I would like to We build Sweden strongly by investing in the municipalities, county councils and regions, but also by ensuring that people through their own choices and drive can gain by working and training. This is how we build Sweden strong. It is by taking responsibility here and now for the costs we have and not passing them on to future generations that we here and now take responsibility for Sweden and ensure that Sweden can also stand strong in the future.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-71	Mr President, I would like to After the speech by the Liberals and Mats Persson, I am not quite sure where to begin. He talks about the government coming up with ineffective policies that do not target the core of welfare. He criticizes a classic Ampolitik and keeps telling us that we will build Sweden strongly. It doesn't make any sense. First of all, I would like to turn to the Liberals and Mats Persson and ask: in what way are the measures that you are now saying no to are not aimed at the core of welfare? We say that we want to invest in adult education. You say no. There are 1.4 billion less corresponding to 30 000 places in municipal adult education. Isn't that an investment in the core of welfare? We want to spend 2 billion on staffing in care for the elderly. You'll say no to that. Isn't it an investment in the core of welfare? We want to send additional funding to the county councils with an additional 1 billion in 2016. In the world of the Liberals, it is not an investment in the core of welfare. Then what is it, Mats Persson?
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-75	Mr President, I would like to Of course, the Social Democrats' budget also includes investments and investments in the core of welfare. We'll meet them from the Liberal side. We face them with even more money than the Social Democrats do. If we take the educational side, we want a ten-year primary school where we add money. We want to introduce a vocational school that would enable newcomers to go to vocational training and thus enter the Swedish labour market. We add more money to apprenticeships and apprenticeships than the government does. We are thus making investments in the education system that we believe, based on our conviction, is a better model than the model in which the government believes. We believe that it is a good thing that people are out in a workplace, making contacts and thus learning a profession. We believe that this is the model for Sweden to move forward. We'll make a different choice than you do. But you can't say that we don't invest and invest money. What the Social Democrats are doing is putting the bulk of your efforts into ineffective policies. You are investing EUR 6 billion in construction subsidies, EUR 5 billion in trainee contracts and a 90-day guarantee that so far has given three people an opportunity to do something else. It's pretty expensive politics per head. I think the way we build Sweden strongly, Niklas Karlsson, is to make sure that people feel a drive to go to work, that people gain by training instead of not training and that we make sure to really invest in the core of welfare. You don't, but we do.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-81	Mr President, I would like to There's talk of drive to go to work. We know that the principle that has governed Sweden for eight years is that those who do not take the job that does not exist are to blame themselves. It again comes from the lips of the Liberals. Sure, it's your policy. But we stand for another Sweden. There are some redistributions in the Liberals' budget. It is felt that some of the efforts made by the government should go to other initiatives. You've listed some of them. Nevertheless, we must be able to see the net impact of the Liberals' draft budget in relation to the proposal made by the government. That's 26 billion less in your budget option than what the government is delivering. There is 5.6 billion less to education and 6.2 billion less to welfare. What the Liberals think is ineffective policy is another 1 billion to the county councils in order to improve health care. It is against 1.4 billion so that we get 30 000 new compux places and training opportunities. There's no 2 billion more to staffing in the care of the elderly. It's Liberal Sweden. I would say that it is not building Sweden strong.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-85	Mr President, I would like to It is fascinating to listen to Niklas Karlsson. Those of us who listened to radios and television interviews during the election movement found that the Social Democrats had a mantra: not borrowing for tax cuts. What's the government doing now? It lends itself to inefficient subsidy policies and classical social democratic labour market policies. This weekend the Minister of Finance opened up so that we will no longer have stable public finances. The budget on the table of this House is a major tax increase and an increase in expenditure, i.e. an increase in borrowing and a failure to build stable public finances forward. This is the wrong way to go. I think it is particularly important in the situation we find ourselves holding the money so that we can invest and ensure that our children and grandchildren do not have to pay later. But that is exactly how it will be with the policy you are pursuing, and that, as I said, is the wrong way to go.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-88	Mr President, I would like to The foundation for Swedish welfare is laid in the municipalities. It is they who have the main responsibility to deliver a well-functioning school, care, care and much more. The efforts made in these areas in the state budget are almost marginal in relation to the resources invested by the municipalities themselves. Therefore, it is not the size of government efforts that ultimately determines how well-being develops and how much resources the various parts of welfare can obtain. Instead, it is determined by the size of the tax base, which in turn depends entirely on employment, i.e. how jobs and hours worked develop. Like so many other things, the debate is about the finances of municipalities about jobs. The best thing a government can do is to make it easier for the municipalities by taking measures that provide more jobs and increase employment, not to give money you do not have for more targeted investments. Therefore, an effective employment policy is crucial for municipalities and county councils to be able to provide welfare with quality. The Christian Democrats' job proposals will lead to more hours worked and continued good development of the tax base, which improves welfare. The government's policy, on the other hand, does not promote more people in work. The changes in health insurance, the lack of reforms to seriously improve integration and substantially increase taxes on working and hiring and on jobs themselves will not lead to more jobs or hours worked. The positive change we see in the labour market is mainly an effect of the Alliance's job reforms and of a favourable economic climate. The Government's budget is difficult for municipalities and county councils in the long term. In particular, the proposal for a special wage tax for older people will reduce the tax base of municipalities, as more older people will stop working earlier than they would otherwise do. In addition, it will be more expensive for municipalities to hire, for example, retired teachers and retired health workers who are needed to cope with the growing population. Mr President, I would like to The municipalities themselves estimate that their costs will increase in the coming years. Unless much more people get into work, tax increases will be required in the coming years, which also has a negative impact on employment. The sharp increase in the public commitment resulting from the government budget also risks cutting further gaps in municipal budgets over time. It is true that the government is replacing municipalities according to the funding principle. But the population is growing rapidly in many municipalities, and the demand for welfare services is hardly reduced with the government's so-called free investments. It is also not unreasonable that more similar efforts will be requested in other areas of care later on. It may be very difficult to explain why some efforts should be free of charge when others are not. This feels good to do now, but in the long term it may prove very costly for Swedish public finances and for the finances of municipalities. These cost-driven reforms present risks. Mr President, I would like to In the current refugee crisis, municipalities face major challenges. In the short term, it is of course important for municipalities to have the resources to deal with the large number of refugees who come here. In the longer term, however, the most important thing is that we find effective measures to speed up integration and that time can be shortened until one gets a job. A proposal that can facilitate integration is what we Christian Democrats have in our budget and which we call establishment deductions. It provides the opportunity for new arrivals to earn their first 500 000 crowns without paying taxes. This increases the driving forces to take a first job and lower thresholds into the labour market. Once you have one foot in you can in time get the other in as well. With effective integration, there are good opportunities that immigration can be a solution to how the welfare of the future is to be financed. We have many other job proposals in our budget exercise. It is about lower VAT on simpler repair services and greatly increased RUT deductions. This is a new start-up deduction that lowers the thresholds for those who go from sick leave or unemployment into the labour market and wage reductions. Above all, we say no to many of the tax increases that risk becoming a real club for jobs, not least the special wage tax for older people. Mr President, I would like to If we're going to make it through the local economy in the future, that's the job it's all about.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-105	Mr President, I would like to The municipal sector is responsible for education, urban development, childcare, health care, culture and leisure, but also has political responsibilities of a broader nature such as financial and economic issues. The core tasks of care, school and care constitute a significant part of the total cost: 80 per cent for municipalities and 88 per cent in county councils. Sweden's municipalities and county councils are a large and important part of the Swedish model, of the general welfare. The local government sector accounts for approximately one quarter of GDP, half of general government expenditure and one quarter of employment. The municipal sector's tax revenues well exceed the single largest tax revenue in the central government budget. Overall, the economic development of the local government sector has been good in recent years. At the same time, the sector has entered a period of strong pressure for change. Demographic developments have led to increased cost pressures and investment needs in many activities. Nevertheless, it should be noted that economic development continues to vary between individual municipalities and county councils and that costs in the municipal sector continue to increase. The local government sector faces large and partly different challenges, which also vary between individual municipalities and county councils depending on local and regional conditions. Mr President, I would like to Local differences in efficiency, service and contribution levels should be linked to the level of taxation chosen locally but not to structural conditions such as differences in municipal residents' earned income, employment rate or age structure. In order for the local government sector to be able to carry out its activities with high efficiency and high quality, it is essential that it be given good and equal economic conditions, which is also the objective of the municipal economic equalisation. Without the equalisation system, 12 per cent of municipal tax would be sufficient for municipalities with the highest tax burden to achieve the average municipal tax revenue. Populations living in municipalities with the lowest tax force would have to pay 28 per cent of their income in order to reach the same level. If you add the county tax, the difference in the tax charge would be 35 000 SEK per year for an average wage earner. The Government's budget proposal for 2016 contains clear and welcome proposals for the local government sector. For example, large resources are invested in making the teaching profession more attractive, in increased staff density and improved quality of recreation centres, in staff reinforcements at the Swedish school library, in increased compensation to municipalities for asylum seekers children's schooling and in the renovation of outdoor environments at preschools, schools and recreation centres. Furthermore, the flat-rate compensation for receiving new arrivals is greatly increased, and health care is strengthened by investments in, for example, primary care and free mammography screening. Municipalities that take responsibility for housing construction can also take part in a building bonus. Against this stands major cuts in municipal welfare. The opposition parties of the Parliament say no to varying degrees. They say no to the addition of resources to health care and more places in compux and vocational adults, no to increased staffing in care for the elderly and to efforts against mental illness among children and young adults, and no to free medicines for children and free outpatient care for those over 85 years of age. Mr President, I would like to Municipal welfare affects people's everyday lives concretely and directly. It creates security in old age, gives life chances in youth and increases people's freedom and opportunities to have a good and meaningful life. In a world that is constantly changing, a strong and equal welfare plays a role in the development of a human being and the courage to face the only thing we know for sure, namely that tomorrow is completely different from yesterday. Against this background, it is important to conduct a policy that gives municipalities and county councils the opportunity to carry out their mission and create a well-being that is distributed according to needs. Then it's not good enough to back into the future.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-120	Mr President, I would like to This idea of pushing people out of the labour market because they are 65 by making it significantly more expensive for employers to hire them and believing that it would be good for the municipal economy, where does it come from?
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-121	Mr President, I would like to It was pretty mean. Where the idea comes from, I cannot answer, but it can be said that the overall effect of the government's budget means strengthening welfare. When we discuss increasing resources to improve welfare, to increase quality and to ensure that we, as citizens, have the welfare that we need as needed, the government's efforts as a whole are good. We see investments in more money for county councils, for health care, for elderly care and for school. This means that employment in our country will increase, unemployment will fall and tax revenues for municipalities and county councils will increase.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-124	Mr President, I would like to Now I specifically asked about the measure to make it more expensive for municipalities to hire older people. It will also be more expensive for older people to work through such proposals. Many county councils, not least in sparsely populated areas, have many doctors who are 65-plus. Now it will be much more expensive to hire them. This will lead to the stamping out of people on the labour market – not in unemployment but in old-age pensions. There are many who change jobs even when they are 65 or older. I don't understand this idea. It must be the structurally worst proposal that we have seen for an incredibly long time in Sweden. There are definitely some things that are good in the government budget, but the suggestion that people who want and can work and who are on the labour market should be pushed out in old-age pensions, when they themselves want to remain in the labour market, does not seem so good. This also makes it difficult for many rural and rural municipalities and county councils to cope with welfare.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-128	Mr President, I would like to History will show if it's good or bad. It is part of the opposition's task to paint in black colours, preferably with wide brushes. I do not believe that the effect of the particular increase we are now seeing on those who are a little older should be exaggerated. We can see that there are many young people who are currently outside the labour market and who may be given an opportunity to get a new job. Let us return to this debate and see who is right. Then let's not be any worse than the one of us who was wrong admitting it at that time.
i-Rq537BB95MA6jq7LHSZWg8	Mr President, I would like to On Wednesday, 9 December, the Long-term investigation presented the background report The regional challenges of Demography. In the invitation, we can read that the Minister for Civil Affairs is launching a series of seminars on the challenges of municipalities. The seminars will, among other things, form the basis for the report on the municipalities' challenges that the government intends to set up, says the invitation. In the new report, the authors point to several challenges for municipalities in the future. A majority of Sweden's municipalities are estimated to have fewer than 20,000 inhabitants in 2040. Age structure is one thing, reduced tax force is another. But which municipalities are to be merged? Does a merger of less sparsely populated municipalities solve the problem? If we merge Mora, Orsa and Älvdalen we get 33 000 new inhabitants on an area that is 2 000 square kilometres larger than Skåne. If we use Dorotea, Vilhelmina, Åsele, Sorsele, Storuman, Bjurholm, Malung, Nordansjö and Vindeln, we reach 36 000 people on an area that is four times the size of Skåne and has 0.89 inhabitants per square kilometre. My question is: which municipalities are to be merged to cope with an ageing population and a falling tax force? Is it so simple that you just do a municipal compilation and that solves all the problems? Now tell the Swedish people what you want to do, Niklas Karlsson!
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-137	Mr President, I would like to That's a good question, Anders Ahlgren, but asking me to answer today is a little bit. The Secretary of Civil Affairs has flagged for this to be looked at. Let us unbiasedly sit down and discuss these questions. They are extremely important for us to cope with the welfare of the whole country. I also know what the conditions are. I come from a part of the country that's ten times a hundred miles. We have 33 municipalities in Skåne. There are conditions for merging municipalities, but the need is not very great. Farther north in our country is the need, but the conditions are much smaller. Let's get Dorotea. Of course, it cannot be that when you meet some and ask if they have seen Gustavsson, you get the answer: No, he went to the Social Services Office in Vilhelmina last week. These are enormous challenges for our country. With the tradition and history that our two parties have, I think there is the possibility of a handshake between us, Anders Ahlgren, to find solutions to this. One of these solutions is that we have a municipal economic balance that is important, equal and far-reaching so that you can get the same care, care for the elderly and school with the same conditions in all parts of the country, also we who live in Skåne and those who live in the parts of the country that Anders Ahlgren comes from.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-143	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. I could clarify myself further and ask for your personal opinion on the question, Niklas Karlsson, and it will be easier to answer. At the moment, work is under way to try to create fewer but considerably larger regions in Sweden. It's a good condition for pooling power. Then we are a little surprised when we see that at the same time in the Government Office, in your party, Niklas Karlsson, a municipal assembly is being prepared. The Center Party and I believe that a major regional reform in Sweden could support the smaller municipalities' opportunities to offer a good service. That reasoning was shared by Minister Wikström in a debate last week. If we get strong regional development and strong regions, it would counteract large-scale local government solutions. Large-scale solutions are far removed from the population, and those in the council are completely unknown people. You never meet them when you go to Ica or Konsum and shop, but it becomes rather anonymous with too large parts. I would like to ask you about your personal opinion, Niklas Karlsson, regarding the form of municipal compilations. Are there other ideas about bringing together ever larger areas? How do you view regional reform – is it counterproductive for larger municipalities?
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-148	Mr President, I would like to Let us first be clear that the Institute of Investigation is with the government. We don't have it. If the Minister of Civil Affairs is flagging an investigation now, he's the one who's taking that initiative. But it will of course pass the Swedish parliament too, where we will finally make a decision. In order for it to have a strength, it is important that we parliamentarians are involved in the discussions. I take Anders Ahlgren's question as an honest one and that it is not primarily a question of seeking conflict, but that we must resolve it in a good way. I can say that my experience as a municipal politician – I have worked in Skåne with certainly different conditions than the experience Anders Ahlgren has from his municipality of residence – yet it is important that there is a closeness and a democratic perspective. The municipalities must not be too large. At the same time, however, we shall be able to organise it in such a way that the welfare is there no matter where in the country you live. There is a rural inquiry that is working, which Minister for Rural Affairs Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht has appointed. I think it is important that these perspectives are also included in this investigation so that we get a whole. To answer your specific and direct question as to what my personal opinion is, I cannot be clearer than to say that I think we are quite close.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-153	Mr President, I would like to Niklas Karlsson says that the economy and growth are becoming strong. One wonders a little what happened to the empty barns, which the Minister of Finance has talked about a lot. It can hardly be about our amending budget and the few months it has been in force. This cannot be to thank the strong economy that we still have in Sweden for. Instead, it is a bourgeois responsible policy, which has applied in nine budgets and in which the krona-pre-krona principle has been in force that we have to thank. I want to focus on two problems and a few questions that I have for Niklas Karlsson regarding the state grants. Firstly, that important performance-based investments in increased accessibility and shorter care queues may stand back for general state grants send completely the wrong signals. The government, together with the Left Party, has scrapped the queue billions. There are no requirements for performance or for reducing waiting times. It is problematic that this measure by the state risks leading to the county councils re-prioritising their resources. As a result, it has little impact on accessibility and quality. Therefore, I would like to ask Niklas Karlsson from the Social Democrats: In what way would a general state grant be better than a queue billion which contributed to all county councils and regions in a good way measuring the queues and focusing on accessibility? Many county councils and regions saw reduced queues and increased accessibility. I do not want Niklas Karlsson to refer in his reply to the evasive effect of return visits, because that is what would come as the next step. It was the next planned step in the queue billion.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-158	Mr President, I would like to To have history with us: It is surely the case that when we got a bourgeois government in 2006, they had state finances that were quite well in order. It has been managed for eight years. But it has not been done with the principle that crown for crown should apply; there Ulrika is wrong. This principle introduced the then Minister of Finance Anders Borg sometime in 2013– 2014. Then came the principle of crown for crown. Before that, it was okay to borrow. It was even the case that the bourgeois government borrowed tax reductions. You have to think about that. If we are now to discuss the general state subsidies, I understood the question as if it were not better for us, from the state side, to send special-destined grants which we are subject to instead of general state subsidies. I'm not of that opinion. I have an experience as a municipal politician, and I think that if you were to talk to your alliance colleagues who have the same experience, you would be told that it is better to do exactly the opposite. Municipal self-government is extremely valuable. It is better to let those who work close to the business and who can decide for themselves how to use the money best. We note that the difference between the bourgeois and the moderate draft budget and that presented by the government is that there are considerably less resources for the welfare of your proposal. I do not think it would have helped if the money you wish to send had been conditional on the efforts that we now want to see in terms of welfare and which are of a more general nature.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-161	Mr President, I would like to The Krona-pre-krona principle has now fallen; we can see that. It was clearly something that the Minister for Finance had longed for, which is worrying. I absolutely agree with Niklas Karlsson when it comes to municipal self-government. I'll protect it. I think, however, that the effect that could be seen from the queue billions was valuable, and it is a pity that you choose to scrap it. As I mentioned in my first reply, there are two problems that I primarily see with the Social Democrats' policy on general state subsidies. I was going to go into the second problem. General state grants are not the solution to the financing of municipalities and county councils. The increase in general government grants in 2016 accounts for 0.1 per cent of total revenue for municipalities. It is therefore worrying when you see local and regional representatives of the Social Democrats who put a great deal of faith in state subsidies, when they should really focus on how jobs can become more and how tax revenues can increase. Recently Henrik Fritzon from Region Skåne spoke as follows: It is gratifying that the government shares my view that more general state aid is needed and that it means a broader strengthening where the county councils and regions themselves decide best how best to use the funds. He is thus the regional chairman of Region Skåne. In view of this statement, I am thinking of a quote that someone else pays that fits well: That's what Margaret Thatcher once said. I would like to ask Niklas Karlsson if he sees a problem with the Social Democratic representatives in municipalities and county councils putting their full faith in state subsidies when they should actually focus on how jobs can become more and how tax revenues can increase.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-168	Mr President, I would like to It is not often Margaret Thatcher is quoted in the Swedish Parliament, and I think we are happy about that – also many in your own camp. Perhaps the discussion that you are now having with me should primarily have with your colleagues in the Alliance. The proximity and cohesion we have seen for eight years is blown away. Here we heard the Center Party in a main speech just talking about general and special-destined state subsidies and saying exactly the opposite to what the Moderates say. The Center Party believes that it is more general state subsidies we need, and less specialized. In this case, I can be clear: I fully agree with the view expressed by the Center Party: general state subsidies are better than with special destinies. I have experience from municipalities. I know exactly what it's like to sit around and turn every crown. It is better that those who sit and have responsibility for the operations themselves should decide how the money should be used than that we in Stockholm, in the Swedish Parliament, should make all the state grants that we send to municipalities and county councils conditional. This bodes well for the future. Perhaps we can see a new handshake between the Social Democrats and the Center Party. I welcome that.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-173	Mr President, I would like to Last week, Save the Children's annual report on child poverty came. It shows that there is still a high level of child poverty in Sweden: 12% of all children, or 234 000 children. It is the children of single and foreign-born children who have the worst economic conditions. The figures for child poverty are unworthy of a rich country like Sweden. Poor children's living conditions must be placed at the heart of the ongoing social debate. The left-wing impression on the budget has a clear children's perspective. We have achieved a number of reforms that will make a big difference for many children who come from families with scarce economic circumstances. There will be free medicine for children, eyeglass benefits, summer holiday support, more employees on fritis, reduced fees in the cultural school, rehabilitation of schoolyards and an investment in social services' work with child matters. In total, it involves an investment of almost SEK 2 billion next year. These are efforts that the Left Party has made in the negotiations with the government. They will make a difference for many children in families who have poor money. The Left Party is an opposition party, but we are negotiating with the government on the budget. For us, it is important for all children to have a good upbringing. They will if you have a well-being that you can trust. When the folk home was built in the 50's, 60's and 70's, it was often about the fact that the welfare was expanded step by step as the country's income increased. Today, we rarely see big moves to develop and improve welfare. But politics is not just about managing welfare, it is also about developing and improving it. Welfare must be built so that it comes to those who need it most. In this budget, thanks to the Left Party, we are taking several important steps to develop and expand towards a more robust welfare. Old people over 85 years of age do not have to feel anxious that the economy is not enough when they feel sick. As a Member of Parliament, you can think that 200 SEK in patient fees is not money. But for a generation where many are single women who live on a very small and small pension is 200 kroner at the end of the month a huge expense. With this reform, old people will be able to feel more secure and feel better. Another important step is eyeglass allowance for children. The National Association of Mayflowers, which sells Mayflowers to us every year in April and May, has fought for this reform for many years. They have seen that children who come from poorer homes do not get glasses, even though they need them. Today, the county councils' systems for eyeglass grants look very different, and that is why the state now needs to go in to ensure equal welfare regardless of where in Sweden you live. This means that all these children who have had difficulty reading and have fallen behind in school many times now finally have an opportunity to see. Now all children have the same opportunity to see well and in that way get a good and fun schooling. Breast cancer is the woman's most common cancer. About 20 women fall ill every day. The disease mainly affects middle-aged and older women, but men can also be affected. In the budget of the Left Party and the Government, which we hope the Parliament will vote through today, we have ensured that all women between 40 and 74 years of age are entitled to a free mammography screening. Money should not determine whether a woman can check a lump in the chest or not. We know that the differences are great today between the groups of women who are watching and who are not. If we can remove an obstacle, we know that it means much less suffering for many families. We also know that, historically, care for women has often been down-priority. Therefore, the investment in maternity care is also an important part of our budget. Today, in many places it is not possible to have one nurse per mother. This creates both a lack of patient safety for newborns and unreasonable working conditions for those who work in childbirth. Through an investment of 200 million next year and 400 million each year, we invest in women's health and in more equal health care. Young people, especially women, are also getting a lot of money in our budget. On the one hand, it is a major effort to counteract the worsening mental health of young people, and on the other, it is an initiative on contraception for young people up to 21 years of age. Research has shown that the subsidization of contraception leads to a reduction in unwanted pregnancies, which is therefore the aim of the reform. Free dental care for young people up to the age of 23 is also a good reform, as you retain the good dental health that has been built up in childhood even when you enter adulthood. Often you take your own responsibility for the first time both when it comes to contact with dental care and to sign subscription stand care such as a healthy dental care agreement. With that, Mr President, I would like to call for the proposal in the report to be approved, which means approval of the Government's and the Left Party's budget. Mr President, I would like to I would also like to highlight the fact that the Swedish Democrats have not even put themselves on the list of speakers for this debate. I think it shows how afraid one is to debate its complete cutting of the welfare of municipalities and county councils by means of substantially reduced state subsidies to welfare. It is not close to the efforts of the Left Party and the government or the cuts made by the bourgeois side. It would have been interesting to debate today.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-187	Mr President, I would like to I appreciate Håkan Svenneling's commitment to child poverty. I think that is a good thing and something to appreciate about the Left Party. One problem with the Left Party is that they want to make strong tax increases on jobs and businesses and on hiring and working, and it is bad if you want to fight child poverty. The most important thing to overcome child poverty is that people come to work. If we look at the proposals in the budget, we see that there are some proposals in which we Christian Democrats and the Left have the same policy. In our budget option, we also raise the national standard for families with children in the allowance. We raise, in addition to what the government does, the housing allowance for families with children. We spend money on social care for children and young people, we spend money on combating mental illness and we spend more than the government on student health. What the Left Party does together with the government is to remove the leisure money that has existed and that has made that children in financial vulnerability have received support to be able to remain in leisure activities, pay training fees and be in a context with their friends. The Ombudsman for Children and many children's rights organisations say that it is wrong to remove leisure money. Many of these children feel that their training fees compete with the family's other finances. This has been a way of ensuring that they do not have to feel that way but know that there is special support for leisure activities so that they do not have to exacerbate the financial vulnerability of the family.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-192	Mr President, I would like to Earlier in this House, we have heard a debate on whether to have targeted state subsidies or to give a bag of money instead. I think that the similarity is quite clear between this discussion and the issue of leisure money and what support you should have as a social benefit recipient. Either the state decides in detail where the money should go – you target the money for a particular purpose – or you place the responsibility to the individual municipality and say: You decide what is needed best. The same thing is going to happen here. Either the state decides exactly that these 300 crowns should go to leisure activities – that's what they're meant for, so you're supposed to play floorball – or they say it's your responsibility. You're the one who decides where the money goes. I do not think that Jakob Forssmed and I are best placed to decide exactly what children's leisure time should look like. I think that children together with their parents should do this at home at the kitchen table, which many bourgeois politicians use as metaphor. I think this is mainly because it is a question of differences. If you live on social assistance, you are already in a situation where much of what your economy is made up of comes from the public sector. But I do not think that in that situation you should get a guide on how to use the money exactly in detail regarding your child's leisure time. Those families who do not have social security benefits do not get that kind of governance where the state goes in and says: You must spend 300 kronor on a floorball club.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-197	Mr President, I would like to It is amazing to hear a left-wing party stand against detailed regulation. The Left Party wants to force parental insurance and, I believe, proposes 24 new targeted, specialised and detailed state subsidies in this budget. It would have been one thing if you hadn't introduced this. Then maybe I wouldn't have stood here and taken a line on you. You wouldn't have had to introduce leisure money if you think it's so terrible that these children get money specially dedicated to leisure activities. But now you're taking this away. Contrary to what the Children's Rights Organisations and the Children's Ombudsman say, you are scrapping this. One problem has been identified, namely that these children, when they reach the age of ten to twelve, feel that leisure activity competes with the rest of the family's economy and therefore refrains from doing so. Håkan Svenneling may have theories that it's better to decide for yourself, but this leads to you abstaining from contact with your friends and ending with the training, because you feel that it becomes a strain on the family's finances. This has been a way of trying to get to that problem. You may have other ways, other theories and other suggestions, but the fact remains: you actively choose to scrap this proposal in contradiction with what the Ombudsman for Children and Children's Rights says. I think that's boring, bad and sad. Another thing I would also like to ask about when I have you on the line, Håkan Svenneling. Why is it reasonable to remove any contribution in the care of the 85-year-old high income recipient but give the 84-year-old with home care and low pension SEK 2,532 less to move with every year?
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-202	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I want to make it clear that we are not taking away any money, Jakob. The money's still there. They are just not directed in the same way as under your rule. Then they were specifically targeted as leisure money. For me, there is an important difference here. It is that Jakob Forssmed wants to say to a small group of people that they should spend their money on recreational activities. But when we individualized parental insurance, which we in the Left Party are pushing and where we have now taken a small step in the right direction, it is about everyone. That is the difference between a welfare that is for everyone or whether you want to go after those who are the most deprived. I think that Jakob Forssmed's policy sometimes does. With regard to the free health care for plus 85-year-olds, I want to make it clear that there are many women in that group. There's twice as many women as men. The reform therefore benefits women, often single people, who live on a small pension because they have not been in the workplace. It was another time in Sweden when they were of working age, and many were housewives. If you don't go to the doctor at that age, it often results in hospitalizations. Let us be clear that hospitalization is equivalent to 56 doctor visits at a cost. If you feel that your stomach hurts, you should go to the doctor. If we invest preventively and say that it is free of charge, you may be able to get the answer earlier and the treatment can be initiated even then instead of leading to a costly hospitalisation. I believe and hope that it will lead to the county councils having more preventive work, that the county councils will focus more on individuals who come up in that age, so that they can get a good health.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-207	Mr President, I would like to Håkan Svenneling was not here this morning when we talked about municipal self-government. That's why I'm gonna get in a little bit on it. Only one government party is present in this House. That's why the Left Party gets to dress some shots for government policy. You still support the draft budget for 2016, Håkan Svenneling. I will give examples of targeted state subsidies that you introduce in the 2016 budget. It is a state grant for teachers' salaries, increased staff density in recreation centres, increased staff density in school libraries, homework help, extended mathematics lift, rights legislation in the field of adult education, stabilisation and strengthening of child and youth care, training of elderly and disabled people, investment aid for special housing for the elderly, reduced fees for cultural and music schools, outdoor environments for schools, kindergartens and recreation centres, etc. The list is long. There are 24 new targeted state grants. I heard that Håkan Svenneling spoke in the last line about general state grants. What is it that speaks for municipal self-government if you introduce 24 new targeted state subsidies into the budget? The intervention in self-government unfortunately undermines the local adjustment and accountability of the politicians who are in power in their own municipality. The problem is that special contributions do not take into account the different appearances in different municipalities. Sweden is not the same. Do you, as the government support party, want to strengthen municipal self-government? If so, how will we see this in future budgets?
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-212	Mr President, I would like to It is a good list of proposals that Anders Ahlgren lists. It shows that the Left Party has made a difference. We have stepped in and taken responsibility when many other parties in Sweden have not done so. We have sat down at the negotiating table and said to the government: OK we can imagine being involved in negotiating, but then we must also see results. Many of these results are seen in the targeted state subsidies that are now coming. If the bourgeois side wants to see a political dividing line between me and Niklas Karlsson today, it is perhaps precisely what weight we place on general state grants versus targeted state grants. I would say that it is important to also provide targeted state subsidies, to state clearly that we want to see better welfare here, that we want to see a well-being that can be trusted. This is achieved by saying that we should have increased staffing on friti s, because the staffing is generally very low throughout Sweden. We also see how women work in the care of the elderly because the staffing is too low. Then we say that the staffing needs to be increased there and a targeted state grant. When we adopted the extra budget in the Swedish parliament, we could also see that a certain municipality has a certain number of asylum seekers and that another municipality has a different number. The municipality that has a little more will also get more money, because the needs are greater there. In this way, targeted state subsidies are very good. They focus on those municipalities that have the greatest needs.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-216	Mr President, I would like to It is good that the Left Party and Håkan Svenneling confirm their view of municipal politicians. So you do not think that municipal politicians are able to prioritise their own activities, Håkan Svenneling, but you, as wise national politicians, have to tell them that they are going to do in a certain way. That is what the targeted state subsidies do. At the same time, they are removing the opportunity to hold local politicians accountable for the activities they carry out. If they don't do what you want, the municipalities won't get any money. It is also the case that several of the state subsidies that you introduce are so small that it does not solve the problem. I come from a municipality that has one thousandth of Sweden's budget. So every billion gives a million. How does my municipality's care for the elderly improve by 1 million more? That's enough for four favors. It's a little overpowering to think it's possible to handle money that way. I think the state can decide what to do. That's a good option. But how it is to be implemented, what the priorities are to be, we still need to have confidence that local politicians can manage and know best. Then we make a good evaluation and a good follow-up of it. We do not need to allow bad introductions. We don't have to allow bad results. But there must be trust. Otherwise you solve Sweden's problems as if it would look exactly the same in all municipalities. That is why the question is interesting: how can you speak in favour of more targeted state subsidies and mistrust of municipal politicians in this way?
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-220	Mr President, I would like to I will make it clear that I do not distrust local politicians around the country. They're doing an important job. I see how they work every day to make the welfare go together in the best way. Anders Ahlgren is wrong when he says I doubt them. When I am out in municipalities and county councils, I clearly see that the general state grants and targeted state grants are of great benefit to municipal welfare. It also takes on board the targeted state subsidies and says: how good it is that there is money for that very purpose, which we have had difficulty prioritising in our budget in relation to other important investments. Then you can also show that you are thinking about how to use them. I recently visited my neighboring municipality, Kristinehamn. There was money for increased staffing in elderly care already in the spring change budget. It was noted that sick leave was a little longer for the staff of a retirement home than in the other places. A new working method was then tested and a new work model was introduced in that housing. The government's targeted funds were used specifically for that accommodation and did not smudge it on all accommodations. Then you might not see any visible effect. It pointed out that accommodation, and the ambition was for staff to feel better after the reform. It could then be seen that the money has led to results, that the municipality's costs of sick leave have been reduced. If so, the model could be transferred to other parts of the municipality. That's a wise way. I often highlight that example. This shows that local politicians still have the power over the money and can still do what they want. It is important that it is easy for municipalities to apply for targeted state grants. Otherwise, we put our legs away for Sweden's small municipalities. It should be quite clear from the beginning how much money each municipality should receive. There is no need to enter long application procedures. We are increasingly seeing this in public administration. The state is even looking for money by itself. It's a development I don't want to see.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-226	Mr President, I would like to In my speech, I intended to concentrate on what concerns amendments to the Social Services Act and which are dealt with in this area of expenditure. I suppose that also applies to my colleagues in the Committee on Social Affairs who are on the list of speakers after me.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-228	We have already heard in the past how much money can mean. What can sound like a little money a month for a person who has little money can be very much for a person who has a high income. Håkan S venneling mentioned an example of how much SEK 200 can be for a family that lives in financial vulnerability. Nevertheless, it is precisely those targeted by the government when choosing to give municipalities the opportunity to increase the fee in home care and in special housing. The municipalities that raise the fee for home care have the opportunity to do so in a way that makes it cost SEK 211 more a month. There is a lot of money for those who depend on home care and who have a very low pension. It argues that most pensioners – 1.9 million – will not be affected by this. Many healthy 65-year-olds, 66-year-olds, 67-year-olds who would even like to remain in the labour market suffer instead from government tax increases if they want to continue working. But the vast majority of them are not dependent on home care, so they are not affected by this. Those who will be affected are 30 000 people who have home help or who live in a special accommodation. They will suffer where it hurts most – those who already turn their money around to make their little everyday economy go together. The report states that this is not something that the municipalities have to introduce, but it is optional. That freedom of choice is as great as when you could choose the color of a T-Ford. You had to choose what color you wanted, only you chose black. In practice, municipalities are forced to increase the fee for home care. The Committee on Social Affairs' opinion from the majority states that it is perfectly reasonable to increase the fee, but wants the effects of the increase to be reviewed. Yes, that is a good thing, but we can already see the effects on those who have a tough economic situation. Mr President, I would like to I am not going to make a motion today because we have already taken a position on the spending framework. Since the Christian Democrats' budget is to be seen as a whole, we have no claim, but we obviously support our budget in this part too.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-235	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the Finance Committee's category 25, the general contribution to municipalities. Not only does the state contribute to the municipalities, but older people also contribute to improving the finances of the municipalities. A change has been proposed in the Social Services Act that will make it possible to reduce the economy of our elderly, especially for those with the worst economy and the most need for care. This is done by giving municipalities the right to charge higher fees in the care of the elderly and for both care and housing. It should not happen to so many, says the government, only about 30 000 who are getting worse. Then you write like this: The increase in home service contributions due to increased contribution ceilings may be greater than the increase in disposable income after increased basic deductions and in some cases reduced pensions. This is the case for just under 30 000 people. It is the group that gets even less money than before in the wallet after the decision. However, the truth is that all those who have a need for care receive lower incomes even if they do not go negative. There will be more people who will not get the everyday economy together when the cost can increase by $2,500 a year. At the same time, we know that guarantee pensions are being reduced. It will not be easy to be old, have care needs and also have a low pension. It's obviously not a concern of the Red Green Government. The government beats its chest and wants to lower taxes on pensioners. We think that's a good thing. The Alliance reduced the tax during its reign five times to give, above all, those with the lowest pensions a slightly better economy. We know that this was not enough when other costs increased. Our ambition was therefore to continue on that line. Then this is not the time to say yes to increased charges that are counterproductive of our ambitions. Therefore, the Moderates reject the proposal to raise the ceiling for contributions in the care of the elderly. In many contexts, charges are raised to reduce demand for services. For example, you remove the fee for mammography for more people to use the service, you remove the fee for medicines for children in order for more children to have their medicines, but you increase the fee in the care of the elderly. Do you not want the elderly to use the ministry? Fewer and fewer people can afford home care and housing care. This can have severe effects. We know that there are already about 100 000 people of working age who stop working or go down working hours to be carers. Is that the effect that the government is seeking? That is something they have been appalled about in the past. We are afraid of such effects that make more and more people opt out of home care and allow family members to make the effort. Family members can provide a tremendous amount of warmth and love, but they may not always see the medical needs that arise. Family members cannot be required to cope with what trained health professionals can do. This may mean not seeing incipient diseases, perhaps not realizing the value of a good meal, perhaps not discovering incipient pressure wounds and other common complications and deficiencies in the elderly. We fear that older people with high care needs and low income will opt out of the care they need. We Moderates always want to focus on quality, and with the pensioner's needs at the centre, one cannot accept the government's proposal to increase the ceiling for contributions in the care of the elderly. During all the years of opposition, the government has declared itself concerned about care, but when you get the chance, you do exactly the opposite. We Moderates support our specific opinion in the Finance Committee's report, category 25.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-247	Mr President, I would like to This committee report touches on the social committee's remit on a number of points, including the maximum ceiling for pensioners in home care, which is being raised considerably. Yesterday, in this House, we discussed the state budget in Area 9, Health. It was a lively debate. As usual, the left parties made large numbers of raising taxes here and there. Then you distribute contributions here and there to one or other of all kinds of good ends, such as free glasses, free medicines and so on. That's where you put the whole discussion. Jan Lindholm from the Environmental Party, who participated in yesterday's debate, had calculated that we differ here in the Riksdag by 1 per cent in terms of the total efforts in Sweden in municipalities and county councils with state grants and other things. That is what the left parties are discussing. From the Center Party we discuss 100 percent, even the 99 percent about getting the economy started in Sweden and getting more jobs, which gives tax revenue and resources to health care. I argued yesterday that the Center Party's budget, which invests in more jobs and better conditions for what creates much of the wealth in Sweden, namely the companies, in the long run provides much more resources for health care and care than if you raise taxes and then devote the discussion to how we should distribute the targeted subsidies. This also shows that our eight years of alliance strengthened the money for welfare very strongly. Sweden is currently doing very well, and we should all be happy about that. It depends on the years of the alliance. The budgets of the new government have not yet had an impact. It shows the power in this. Håkan Svenneling had exactly the same arrangement. You poke in some money here and there and wonder why we're not in on everything and raise the tax as much. This is a recipe that left-wing parties all over the world are working on, and it has really failed everywhere in the countries of socialism. There was a lot of free stuff there. People got free medical care and everything. But the whole economy went down, and it became a much smaller cake to share, so that the countries eventually got on their knees. That is why I strongly support the concept of developing Sweden that we in the Center Party and the Alliance stand for and that I think has worked very well. I thought I'd discuss the maximum ceiling in the home service a little extra. No one actually said anything from the government yesterday about raising that ceiling, but we had to highlight that from an opposition point of view. It is greatly increased, while at the same time distributing free glasses, free medicines and so on to groups other than pensioners. This proposal affects poor pensioners with the lowest margins. The maximum rate of care for the elderly was introduced in 2002 and concerns the fee for the home care that can be provided in one's own home in daytime activities or if one has special accommodation with space in multi-bed rooms. The ceiling for the maximum contribution that municipalities may charge to the pensioner is set by the state. Right now it is 1 780 kroner a month. In its proposal to Parliament, which the committee has supported, the government now raises this ceiling by a bit over 10 per cent, with SEK 211 per month, to SEK 1,991 per month from 1 July next year. This means an increase of 2 532 SEK for the person who will pay the highest fee. And it is a group made up of the oldest and the sickest and therefore the poorest pensioners. It is estimated that around 100 000 pensioners will be affected by this increase. Christina Tallberg is Chairman of the Pensioners' National Organization, PRO, which is close to the Social Democracy. She said in Aftonbladet on 5 October that the proposal is putting different groups of pensioners against each other. It's very unfortunate. According to Christina Tallberg, it is not worthy of a welfare society. In the Center Party's draft budget, there is no increase in the maximum ceiling in retirement home care. As I said, we have a specific opinion. Unfortunately, our budget has fallen, but I have given our opinion here in the speaker's chair.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-256	Mr President, I would like to Liberals have chosen to set a tight budget for health and social services. We debated this yesterday. What we are opposed to is that the government has chosen to add small amounts, as you might call it, if you see the budget as a whole. I believe that this area concerns about SEK 340 billion. Municipalities and county councils have a responsibility here. Municipal self-determination is very long gone when it comes to making decisions and having responsibility for health care, for health care and long-term care. We think that we should keep that roughness sharp and that the state should not start taking over from the responsibilities here. The money spent on drugs, mammography and other things is small compared to the money spent in the wrong way in municipalities and county councils. Yesterday I mentioned the experience of Lidköping, where offering home care and home visits by doctors and working close to elderly care can save $15,000 per person per year. It's about people with multi-morbidity. It is now being implemented throughout Västra Götaland. That's a lot of billions. In the same way, it is in the field of medicines. 10% of hospitalisations in this year's group are due to adverse drug reactions, and half of them could be avoided. Only hospitalizations cost about half a billion dollars. What we in the Liberals are saying is that in the system there is money to be collected that could be used to offer free mammography. I am a warm advocate of mammography ever since I was responsible for the testing of the value of mammography that we carried out at the time. Then it is with free contraception for younger people. Norrbotten has shown that this lowers abortion rates, which also affects the county council's budget. One might think that the other county councils should take on board the experience from Norrbotten. The government shouldn't have to go in there and spend money on this. The serious thing is that you spend money in such a way that you are stuck in continuing to pay in the future. The proposals put forward by the Liberals concern more specific measures, which do not take on a long-standing responsibility, which, as has been said, is actually that of county councils and municipalities. I'm not gonna get any taller than this. You can read the minutes of yesterday's debate. We are abstaining from voting in this area of expenditure because our budget has already fallen.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-261	Mr President, I would like to Today, we are debating the Social Affairs Committee's opinion to the Finance Committee specifically if the municipalities are to be given an opportunity, not an obligation, to increase the ceiling for contributions in the care of the elderly. Today, when you place great emphasis on the adjustment of the ceiling in the elderly care tariff, I think you have to take off your goggles and look at the whole picture. There is a huge investment in older people in the government's budget. Besides, it's not just about wallet issues. It is both an improved care and an improved economy for the elderly. When it comes to care, we invest SEK 2 billion in more people, i.e. more staff, in care for the elderly. We invest 6 billion in three years to increase staffing, i.e. more hands in healthcare. Historically, it's a very big bet. We are also making a large amount of knowledge effort of 200 million for the staff in care for the elderly so that care and care can be further developed. Housing is another important issue. Investment support for older people's housing is part of a long-term process to build away the shortage of older people's housing. We'll bet $850 million in three years. As far as the economy of our elderly is concerned, we propose a reduced tax on pensioners by nearly 2 billion. We are starting our journey back to fairer taxation for pensioners, who should not have a higher tax rate than other people in society. If we add the increased housing supplement for pensioners by SEK 400 million, it is about reforms of SEK 4 billion. Almost all pensioners get more in their wallets thanks to government reforms. Three out of four pensioners benefit from the government's pensioner tax reduction. The reduction in the basic deduction is particularly beneficial for low-income pensioners. The aim is to increase the quality of care for the elderly, increase security and improve the conditions for equal, equal and equal care for the elderly throughout the country. These large investments not only provide better care but also allow for the financing of some 4,000 new jobs in care for the elderly, in home care and in retirement homes. At the same time, we make it possible for municipalities to increase the fees for elderly care. The new charges will then be at the level that applied when the maximum rate was introduced a few years ago. At that time, the fees corresponded to 5 per cent of the municipal costs of home care. Today, they represent about 4%. Now we are restoring the fees to the level that was calculated when the maximum rate was introduced. 5 per cent is a reasonable self-contribution. It's a 95% grant funding. The increase, which is possible for municipalities, is part of the financing of the urgent reforms for our elderly. In view of the overall outcome of our proposals for women and men who are concerned with elderly care, 95% of them will benefit from this. It is important to point out that the proposal protects low-income pensioners, because they are guaranteed a reserve amount, thus maintaining a minimum disposable income when the costs of rent and home care are paid. Mr President, I would like to It is therefore not at all true that pensioners with a great need for care will be left without home help when the ceiling is raised, as the Conservative parties write. For the small minority of guarantee pensioners who receive a lower disposable income in 2016, the change is approximately SEK 20 per month. In the budget bill, the government has proposed a number of reforms aimed at older people. It is just over 4 billion, and it is not a small sum. This shows the government's ambitions in the area of the elderly. Our strong efforts on the older side can be compared to the Moderates saying no to 500 million of the increase in staff.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-277	KD says no to 2 billion to more staff and invests a fraction, 850 million, in some other, smaller positions. Liberals say no to the 2 billion to more staff but spend a penny on cooking in the home service. It is very good, but in the municipalities that have introduced it it has turned out that it does not cost them anything extra. They also invest in some other small items. All conservative bourgeois parties, including SD, want to maintain a higher tax rate for pensioners. They're gonna pay more per hundred bucks. In conclusion, Mr President, the Committee on Social Affairs assumes that the government will monitor the consequences of the increase in the ceiling. We also support the Government's proposals and reject the motions. I support the proposal of the Committee on Finance.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-281	Mr President, I would like to It is very exciting to hear Catharina Bråkenhielm talk about the big investments in care for the elderly, which are really about redisposals. In reality, SEK 60 million this year and SEK 362 million in 2018 cannot be enough for 4,000 more nurses in the country's 290 municipalities. The proposals are not funded. We can now predict that there will be more breaches of promises in this respect. I would like to ask Catharina Bråkenhielm how she thinks it can give 4 000 more nurses when, at the same time, other targeted initiatives that existed in the care of the elderly are removed, which meant a number of services that are now disappearing. In fact, you just change and change. If you say that it is reasonable to have 5% in contributions in the care of the elderly, you must not forget that during this time Sweden and Europe have been through an economic crisis, which has meant that pensions have been reduced. How does Catharina Bråkenhielm mean that the elderly will manage their everyday lives when they get less in their wallets? And everyone who has a need for care gets less money in their wallet, regardless of what the government says, regardless of the tax cuts that are actually eaten up for those who have a need for care. I cannot think that this is justifiable. Can Catharina Bråkenhielm defend it?
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-285	Mr President, I would like to I do not share Margareta B. Kjellin's view on how to count on this. We do not proceed from the conservative views of the Moderates. We won't leave anyone out. We have always ensured that we have a society in which those with the lowest incomes and the weakest have had the opportunity for care, care and health care as needed and not for income, as it has been in the conservative society. It's incredibly important. In your time, you chose to spend tax money on the big burger chains instead and counted a lot of work. Here we choose to add tax money to the public sector and health care. We think that this is a much more important and much better effort. Then we count on an approximate number of services. The municipalities do a little whatever they want with this money. They can invest them in other things, but there will be more people in care, and that is absolutely the most important thing. I have a question for Margareta B Kjellin. The Moderates in the Social Affairs Committee write this: a rise of this kind may mean that many elderly people with home care will not be able to afford the help they need and an increase will affect primarily the elderly who have the greatest need. They will not feel confident that they can get the help they need. They will be left out and not given any social protection. I want you to develop this. When the RUT deduction was introduced, many municipalities raised the home care rate so much that the old could not afford municipal home care. They therefore chose to use the RUT deduction instead, and it was certainly not income-based. Only those who had a good income could use this, and it did not cover the poor pensioners. I would like Margareta B Kjellin to answer how she can defend the wording that the elderly will be left without care. Most pensioners will be better off.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-292	Mr President, I would like to I find it hard to understand how to get better when it costs more, because there is no connection in between. But of course they'll be left outside. We know that charging areas reduces demand. And if you have so little money that 20 kroner a month means that you give up medicines and food, then it is very important. Then you choose to stand outside. You take as little home help as you need. Family members are allowed to volunteer. We know that 100 000 people are already at home today to help their relatives instead of contributing to the Swedish economy, which in turn could strengthen welfare by increasing tax revenues. They say you're betting on hamburger chains. No, we're betting on young people who need jobs. We must ensure that they get the first job and enter a labour market. That's how we get increased tax revenue. That's how we get more people to work.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-295	Mr President, I would like to I'll bring up the last one first. That didn't do much work. It became a little richer owners of our hamburger restaurants. It is not an initiative that the Social Democrats support, either then or in the future. Yesterday we had a debate here. Margareta B Kjellin says: We know that demand decreases if you have fees. We had a debate yesterday about mammography. There the bourgeois side argued exactly the opposite. It was unnecessary to have free mammography. It had no effect. It was thought to be to throw the money in the lake. How does that make sense? I do not think that is true at all in this debate. It's extremely strange. It is not so many years ago that the bourgeois side greatly increased the high cost protection both for medicines and for health care. They raised it up a lot, with a lot of hundreds. We know that those who use the most healthcare and drugs in the country are our elderly. There was a huge increase. Sometimes you can pay up to the limit of high-cost protection when you have medicines that cost more than those for high-cost protection. Then you're going out with it right away. There was no talk about it. Then it was all right. That's when they talked about the rise in inflation. Then it went well. You turn your coat a little bit after the wind. How can that be explained, Margareta B Kjellin? We think this is a good proposal. We don't leave pensioners out of this. Those who have good pensions have to pay something more. There was someone in the speaker's chair who said – I think it was the Center Party: When you get old, sick and in need of care, you get poor. But I can't see any such similarity. If you have a high income, a high pension, and get sick, you have no less in your wallet. This isn't about that, it's about needs. We're not leaving anyone out. This is a good reform. There is no need to introduce an increase in the ceiling for home care fees. Stockholm has chosen not to. It's totally optional.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-301	Mr President, I would like to Sweden should be a safe country to live in. The aim of criminal policy is to reduce crime and increase people's security. I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal for appropriations and appropriations for 2016 in Category 4 Legal. However, the Committee on Legal Affairs' budget report also deals with a large number of motions from the general period of exercise. The Social Democrats, together with the Green Party and the Left Party, have eight reservations. We are all behind them, but refrain from claiming their approval, for the winning of time. Above all, Mr President, we are abstaining because much of the work that the majority of the committee is asking for in its announcements is already under way. In our opinion, there is no reason to make announcements to the government in cases where an investigation is under way, where an investigation has just been completed and is being prepared within the Government Office or where the government has left various assignments. Many of the majority's announcements concern the police and their activities. It was a year ago, Mr President, that the reorganisation came into force. Everything doesn't change day one. We know it will take at least two years for a new organization to sit down. As the committee's majority stresses, it is important to follow up if changes have the intended effect and if you achieve the goals set by the government and parliament – we think so too. But giving this to the public really feels like breaking open doors. Statskontoret has received this assignment and will report annually until 2018 how the reorganisation has created better conditions for improved operational performance. The Poli Authority itself also has a reporting requirement as to how the work is progressing. Several times a year, the change barometer follows up the various parts of the reorganisation in detail. Two other announcements by the majority concern the composition of the staff of the Police Authority. We believe that it must be the authority itself that determines the competence and composition of civil servants and police professionals to achieve the maximum capacity to work in outreach but also to investigate and clear up crimes and have few people prosecuted. We have consistently supported an increase in the number of police graduates. However, we must be aware that it had the consequence of reducing the number of civilian workers. If both the number of civilian employees and the number of police graduates are to increase, we are talking about a completely different allocation to the police. We also want to await the investigation into the new police training – it is about how it is supposed to be designed, the number of places and how the admission will take place. This investigation will be presented in April 2016. Mr President, I would like to We Social Democrats believe that Parliament's institution of announcement is in danger of being eroded in the way it is used in this report, when the work requested in the vast majority of cases is already under way. In order for Sweden to be a safe country to live in, an active and inclusive welfare policy is required. Society must be there for everyone. The social divides must be reduced, and all the people of our country must be given the same conditions to live a good life. Preventing, preventing and clearing up crimes is central. Above all, it is about having a conscious and strategic crime prevention work. During the year, the Socialist Group has made a large number of visits around the country to various activities. What is consistently called for and emphasised is collaboration. There are none of the different actors who can handle the work themselves. There is a need for awareness in schools, social services and leisure activities. There is a need for continuity among staff, so that the younger people in particular have confidence and security with the adults around them. And it requires a local presence of the police. The Government has commissioned Brå to make proposals on how a national support and coordination function for crime prevention can be built up at Brå and to propose what tasks such a function should have. It shall also make proposals on how to link a special coordinator to the Authority. At the moment, there are also dialogues on what should be included in the national action plan and the crime prevention programme to be developed during the term of office. The Swedish Crime Victims Agency has been tasked with developing a guide for preschool staff on how to talk to children about difficult feelings and experiences, both to be observant of signals and to be able to have difficult conversations when something has happened. The second part I want to lift here is the work to prevent relapse into crime. Here too, cooperation between municipalities and prisons is of the utmost importance. There must be a reasonable chance of getting a lockout that gives a reasonable chance of life outside crime. That lockout should be planned practically from day one. The third area I would like to highlight, Mr President, is the work being done against organised crime. We see that more and more of crime is becoming and is organised, not just the gross and heavy. More and more are also gang related at a lower level. It is therefore gratifying that about a month ago the government, together with the police, presented the efforts that are being made and are under way. It is about the introduction of new crimes. It's about sharper penalties. It is possible to take crime, money or other property more easily, in the case of organised crime. And it's about the work against illegal weapons. But there is also the question of preventing and preventing and extending cooperation between authorities. The police presented five priority areas for serious and organised crime. The agency also highlighted 14 priority geographical areas around the country and how it intends to work. Brå has also been tasked with developing measures against crime in vulnerable areas. That is why we believe that the announcement in paragraph 7 has also been met and is thus another open door. Mr President, I would like to It is always possible to do more and better, and resources to different authorities are sometimes perceived as too small. But we know that the government is closely monitoring the development of our activities in our field. If changes are needed, the Government will propose these to the Riksdag.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-317	Mr President, I would like to Helene Petersson did not mention that support for victims of crime and support for witnesses in trials is currently underfunded. We Christian Democrats want to increase the funding to the Victims' Agency by SEK 20 million to increase the state's responsibility for witness support and to provide more financial support to the victim support services, which we all know is doing a fantastic job. We had hoped to get the support of the government parties in this because the Social Democrats before Morgan Johansson became Minister of Justice often talked about an increase of SEK 10 million to the Crime Victims Agency. My question is simply: why is this so quiet in this House today and elsewhere from the Social Democrats when Morgan Johansson has now become Minister of Justice?
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-320	Mr President, I would like to I'd like to start with the witness support. There is an investigation that has been submitted by the Swedish Crime Victims Agency and the Swedish National Courts Authority on 30 November 2015, and there are various proposals, both in terms of organisation and funding. I do not think that Parliament should anticipate this work. A mission has been given to the authorities to look at these pieces. They have done a good job and have a wide range of measures. Therefore, I think we should wait for that preparation in the Government Office.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-322	Mr President, I would like to It is possible that you should wait, think and think. Having heard Helene Petersson's speech, I note that this is what the government is doing in several areas. At the same time, we hear the voices, we hear the requests, we hear the cries of the victims' helpers who do a very good job but who are underfunded. Today we are debating the budget in the Swedish Parliament. Here, the Christian Democrats have proposed SEK 20 million more in the grant to the Swedish Crime Victims Agency precisely to ensure that victims' helpers have a greater financial framework and that greater government responsibility is also taken into account when it comes to witness support. Today, the report also sees announcements to ensure that victims receive the right information and are handled by a good way by the police and otherwise in the legal chain. We welcome these announcements, because we think it is crucial that victims of crime should meet with clarity. One should understand and get relevant information, and here witness support from victim support centres does a fantastic job. But we need to take greater responsibility. Morgan Johansson has said several times, however, that you are going to give 10 million to the victim support services. When you have pushed this so hard before you came into government position, it is a government to continue to pursue that policy. We would welcome support for the proposal that we have put in our budget option with SEK 20 million more to the Victims Agency to secure the responsibility of the state in this.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-326	Mr President, I would like to It is the financing of the activities that the investigation has looked at, and I think it would have been strange if the government had presented a different distribution in this situation. This would mean first giving an assignment to authorities to investigate and look at various things and then before the outcome of the investigation. I don't think that's a really serious job. On the other hand, they have also looked at a change in the focus on money, i.e. how much to go to research and how much to go to business. That's where you redistribute.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-328	Mr President, I would like to I think that Helene Petersson well sums up both the government's policy and the reservations expressed in this report when she mentions what seems to be today's fashion word so many times: That really sums up the whole policy. Helene Petersson is very pleased with the efforts made on serious organised crime in the same breath as she is very concerned about the announcements and initiatives taken by the Alliance and the opposition. That's why I thought we could stay a little bit just in case of serious organized crime. Sometimes it can be good to have an active opposition that makes suggestions while you stand and wait. Let us therefore look a little at the proposals that came up with DN Debate on 1 December. I could ask a leading question to Helene Petersson: How many of these proposals were announcements after initiation by the Alliance and already taken by the Riksdag – were there three, four or five?
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-332	Mr President, I would like to I can't answer that. It's about a broader job. Of course, the Riksdag also has a task to push on and produce various proposals. However, with regard to many of the proposals made by the Alliance and the Committee by the Parliament as an announcement, the government or perhaps the previous government, under your leadership, has already started work. Then I think that, out of respect for the work that has actually been undertaken, it will have to be carried out and that it will have time to be prepared. We've had discussions on different occasions here if it's going to be quick or if it's not going fast. If an authority has been given a task and you are working on it – it may be the authority itself that is working on it or that you will investigate something and hand over the results to the government for further decisions – I think it is serious to wait for this and see what can be done for proposals that are well-founded. Much of what was presented both at DN Debate and at the press conference are things that both your group in the previous government and our government agree on. There must be a strong fight against organised crime and, above all, serious organised crime.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-336	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that Helene Petersson is not as concerned about the number of announcements but may even think it is good that there are some proposals to get some help. I will help: The proposals were about four announcements. I'll mention some of them: 中 Criminalisation of attempted serious weapons crimes was investigated under the alliance government, quite correctly, and is included in an alliance motion – only to pick when making proposals. 中 Unlawful handling of explosives is removed from an alliance proposal from an alliance committee motion. 中 Increased exchange of information was investigated under the alliance government, and last year an announcement was made. The ban on clothing linking to gang belongings in courtrooms is an announcement the previous year thanks to an initiative by the Alliance. A mission to the Police Authority on action against illegal weapons was given by the Alliance government but was not extended by the current government. That is why we have proposed a new mandate of this kind; it is a good thing that proposals are coming. A renewed government mission to combat organised crime was initiated by the Alliance government. I guess it's a good thing it's allowed to go on and not shut down. 中 Extended confiscation is about what you have earned when you have stolen someone else's property – an announcement after an initiative from the Alliance.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-345	I believe, Mr President, that if you are in a position of government and have not so much initiative yourself, you should be glad that there is an active opposition. Then you should not be upset about the number of announcements. We have the opportunity to continue debating it today, because we continue to take responsibility for Sweden. There will be more announcements.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-346	Mr President, I would like to Of course, the Riksdag has a major role in raising proposals, coming up with ideas and announcing them to the Riksdag. I am not saying that we should refrain from making announcements, but I think that we should refrain from doing so in cases where the proposals are already under way. I do not think that announcements should be made when you know that an investigation has just been submitted and is being prepared. I do not think that an announcement should be made when a mission is given to an authority. I think it's breaking open doors. We've been in government for over a year now. Of course, many of these ideas were initiatives from the previous government. That's how it has to be, and I think it should be. I do not think that a new government, when it takes office, should take all the ideas, all the investigations, all the work that is going on and all the missions that are given and just put them aside. It is clear that both blocks, regardless of which one has the power of government, are fighting for a good Sweden. Of course, I think that both sides come up with good ideas. But it's about breaking open doors. I am very happy to receive good ideas, and so is the government. We are very much in favour of working together and ensuring that we have a broad majority. When there are good proposals, we are very well prepared to accept them.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-349	Mr President, I would like to Helene Petersson of the Social Democrats devoted a large part of her speech to tackling, instead of telling what the government and the Green Party want in the judicial system, the nine announcements presented by the Liberals and a majority in the Committee on Justice to the House. I was going to comment on one of them, and it's about the police's presence in crime-stricken areas. Helene Petersson's party rejects this and criticises it. It is once again said that we are breaking open doors. In what way are we entering open doors with regard to the mission to increase police presence in the areas affected by crime? I want to know.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-351	Mr President, I would like to I'll show you a press release from the police. I've got it right here. It was presented at the same time as Morgan Johansson presented the work and the programme against serious organised crime. The police themselves are working on this. The police themselves have been assigned a mission, and they present various things. This could be joint efforts by authorities and an increase in the work against criminal networks. 14 priority geographical areas have been identified. So many of the measures you are asking for are already in the hands of the police. The police have already been commissioned by the government to work with them. That is why I think it is breaking open doors to want to announce this on the part of Parliament.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-353	Mr President, I would like to The police have identified 14 residential areas that are criminally burdened and have drug trafficking, parallel legal systems and elements of extremism. Half of these residential areas are located in the Gothenburg area. I read the Gothenburg-Post in connection with Helene Petersson's press conference, and there one of the external officers said: What priority areas? We're not getting a penny for this mission. We want to announce to the government that the police presence in the areas affected by crime will be increased. It must not be just a paper product. In addition, the Swedish Criminal Police, the National Operations Department and whatever else it is called has not delivered the full report yet, but this was a press conference product that was presented together with the Minister for Home Affairs. If we now open doors, I would like to know what information Helene Petersson and the government are giving regarding increased resources, increased capacity and increased preparedness in these areas. That is what our announcement is about.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-355	Mr President, I would like to The new police organisation means, of course, that the different regions and the different police areas have the opportunity to organise themselves in the way that is most needed in a particular area. This is precisely what was meant by trying to get as much local police and local presence as possible. However, it looks different in the country, and one may not be able to organize the Gothenburg area in the same way as one can organize Jönköping County, from which I come. The needs are different. The needs are different, and different skills are needed in the different areas. There may also be different parts of Gothenburg, as has been mentioned here, where additional resources need to be added. The police themselves say that they work to increase their ability in these particular areas. It's about putting more local cops right there. As I said in my speech, when we have visited, we have seen that there is a great deal to gain from having local policemen known to those in the area. You don't get a confrontation, you get cooperation. People have confidence in the police who are there if they know the name of them, recognize them and see them daily. When it comes to gangs, it has also turned out that it is easier to get in and be able to talk with young people at an earlier stage if there are local police officers, and that is one of the parts where the police themselves say that we should have more local police in those areas.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-358	Mr President, I would like to In these times of concern, it is important to take responsibility, and the Alliance continues to take responsibility. It is as important in opposition as it was in government. This is especially true in times when we see a passive government. We have heard it today: the key words are to wait and someone else should do it. It's a general inaction. Rarely has a government put forward so few concrete proposals and proposals. It's alarming. I, too, understand that a new government needs some time, but at the same time it has to leave investigative missions. Rarely, however, have so few directives been given, which suggests that the drive to make policies of political opinion is very low. Especially today, in these times of concern, it is important that we can get together and take responsibility. But it is also important that we, as politicians, put forward concrete proposals that can be followed up and made something out of, rather than sitting still, waiting and waiting for the initiative of the authorities. Why? Because it is better to be one step ahead in politics rather than waiting for reality to catch up with you and you have to make proposals panickingly. The proposals will then be huffy and of poor quality, and the Riksdag will have to try to clean up as much as possible afterwards. It is better to stay one step ahead, take initiatives, investigate and get started. Mr President, I would like to The Alliance continues to take responsibility. Today, the Riksdag will decide on another nine announcements. It's obviously, and it's said earlier that it's eroding. In a change of line, we were then able to see that it was perhaps good that the proposals came, and now there are more proposals. They're concrete. Seven of them are about the police, and it should be seen in the light of the reorganisation that has been done and that came about on the initiative of the alliance government after a thorough investigation and a thorough implementation committee. The position of the Social Democrats at the time, with Thomas Bodström, was that there was no need for a thorough review. It was just to reorganise and implement the next day. Today we see the importance of doing this basic work. Yet there are difficulties. It is therefore important that we politicians also follow up on the progress of the reform. The decision taken by the Riksdag must be followed up before reality becomes anything other than that objective. Otherwise, another reorganisation will have to take place, and then we have lost time. It is our duty as politicians, and that is what one of the announcements is about. Then there is the issue of the number of police officers – a minimum level. We have been telling the Moderates all autumn that there are too few police officers. The target of 20,000 police officers needs to be reformed, not to make them fewer, but to make them more. Our population development has led to that position. This has also been verified afterwards, in December, by the head of the national police in the committee. He mentions the exact same number. We're gonna need 1,000 new cops. It also follows the ambition that there should be resources. The problem is that the budget submitted by the government is already overplayed and can hardly be right. An announcement is about putting forward proposals for concrete measures to achieve a more effective police organisation. It's supposed to be part of the follow-up. These are concrete proposals on the presence in areas affected by crime, on citizens meeting an accessible police organisation. In these modern times when everyone else is present online, the police should also be present online. There is also an announcement on feedback to victims. These are concrete measures, such as improved witness support and reviewing the costs of the Prison Service. Today, the police need leadership more than ever. Of course there should be managers, but there must also be political leadership. The political representatives, like others, have received letters from many police officers. There are over 2 000 letters. We've read them all. It shows which police officers are writing. They're younger cops, and they're cops on the outside. They are the ones who call and raise a number of problems. They're worth taking seriously. This shows the need for active political leadership and active leadership in the police. The opposition wants the police to decide for themselves on police cases and wants to remove the target of 20,000 police officers. The number of civil servants is also not directly mentioned. The reality is that with the proposal to be put forward, the Police Authority will be nifty in recruiting civilian employees to the police. It seems you don't want to do both. The question is where the Social Democrats and the Green Party stand in this vacuum. It is inexplicable to us, and it leads us to believe that we need to take political initiatives. It is important to take the order back to those areas where there is hardly any government representative today. It's a lot about our suburban areas. There are empty premises where there should have been policemen, but for some inscrutable reason the field has left the ground completely free to young criminals. Those who suffer most from this are, of course, those who live in the areas. It is extremely important to take this initiative. The government parties have reservations about the proposals. Their response to each point is to await proposals and preparations. The problem is that some of the proposals were announced to be presented in the autumn, but they never came. Actually, we're not gonna wait any longer. It is time to take responsibility for the situation that exists. It is time to take responsibility for Sweden in a difficult situation. I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 3.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-373	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask a question to Krister Hammarbergh: in what way and who, do you think, should do a follow-up that is not already initiated? They are not just a matter of Statskontoret, but the police themselves have produced an overview of the Confidence Barometer. You go into detail. The Swedish National Audit Office has also announced that the ability of the police and prosecutors to clear up crimes will be monitored. This applies, for example, to the ability of the police to carry out their duties due to the increase in migration. A number of follow-ups have been announced. How and who will do further follow-up?
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-377	Mr President, I would like to We also note that Statskontoret has received this assignment, but we believe that it must go deeper into this and follow the reform continuously with what is happening in the police. Of course, the police themselves must see the pace of change, but it is also important that politicians ensure that the result is the intended aim. It's about taking political responsibility. I do not think that we politicians responsible, especially if you represent a party that is in a position of government, can constantly refer to someone else. You also have a responsibility, Helene Petersson.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-379	Mr President, I would like to The change barometer that the police themselves make is reported to the Transparency Council. The Transparency Council has representatives from you and from us. So Parliament and Members have a great opportunity to follow this issue. This is really a matter of detail. It addresses citizens' promises, the number of district police officers appointed, functions and missions. It's just in detail. Should the government or parliament do this themselves? When a follow-up is to be done, the government gives someone a mission. It is rarely the government itself that does the work, but it makes use of the authorities that exist in the area. The Swedish National Audit Office has itself initiated various follow-ups. It is gratifying that there are follow-ups. Another thing that is being dealt with now, which you have also reservations about, concerns cybercrime. The Swedish National Audit Office is currently looking at these issues. Various authorities and organisations follow up on the government's initiative. It was your government that commissioned Statskontoret. I cannot believe that these follow-ups would not be acceptable.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-382	Mr President, I would like to The majority have reservations on the issue of increased presence on the Internet. It refers, among other things, to what we call id-jackings and that that bill is still being prepared. The problem is that it was announced in the fall, but it never came. How long are we gonna wait? Then we come to the question of follow-up in the Police Authority. I sit on the Transparency Council, and I follow the document closely. It shows the pace of change and moves people. I recommend that Helene Petersson look a little closer at the document, but it does not indicate whether we have succeeded in achieving the objective of the reform. It is also the Police Authority itself that does the follow-up. Sometimes it may be good for politicians to keep an eye on developments and not to let them go. If we let this reorganisation go wrong, and there are unfortunately some negative signs, we will have to do it again. We don't have time for that in these times.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-385	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservations 4 and 12. We are in favour of all our reservations, but for time-winning, we are only in favour of these reservations. Since the budgetary framework is already in place and we have spending on the judiciary far above this budget, we refer to a specific opinion in the report explaining our efforts, which would have been made if we Swedish democrats had been left to decide. In short, our budget can be summed up by the fact that we devote much more resources to the judiciary than both the government and any of the alliance parties do. For the coming years, we will spend over 2 billion more than the others, and in the next three-year period this will rise to around 3 billion in 2018. To put this in relation to the judiciary's budget, we increase it by almost 5 percent in 2016 and by up to 7 percent in 2018, which is a strong investment in the judiciary. The largest authority in the judiciary is the Police Authority, and it is also the one that receives the largest increases in SEK in our budget. We are adding 840 million in addition to what was decided on with regard to the framework of the Police Authority. Among other things, it will go to more civil servants who will free up police resources for pure police duties. It is now necessary because the police are becoming increasingly overloaded, not least with regard to border controls, immigration and the problems surrounding asylum accommodation and other things. In addition to this, we are allocating half a billion extra. This is a general increase in funding. We believe that this increase in funding should include better salaries, better equipment and better weapons for the police. We have seen reports of a police force that does not consider themselves to have enough weapons to face terrorists, organised crime and so on. If you look at the proposal of the Implementation Committee, we can see that the Police Authority was already underfunded by 1 billion last year. That year, we gave them what they needed. The situation is the same this year, if you look again at the proposals of the Implementation Committee. I told the Commissioner when he was in committee that I still find it quite remarkable that a budget was made a few months ago, which is now underfunded. This is much the same as with the cost of immigration. The government can't believe it's underfunded even though it could be seen long in advance. I have been discussing the situation of our task forces for a long time, and I have discussed it with our former Minister of Justice Beatrice Ask, for example, that the powers of the piket should be strengthened in order to provide more adequate protection in all parts of the country. Both the Piket and the National Task Force should increase their capabilities in terms of personnel and equipment. Part of this appropriation – the half-billion we allocate to the Police Authority – should be devoted to this. We also believe that the powers of the piket should be extended as to what weapons they may have and what methods they may use. This has been limited. We are also budgeting for the deployment of the emergency services. That is something we have done every year since it was closed down. With an emergency police force, hundreds, perhaps more, of emergency police can quickly be brought together, if necessary, in the case of forest fires or riots. It is an efficient resource that will be increasingly needed in this new, exciting Sweden that you have created. In total, we thus strengthen the Police Authority with SEK 840 million. We are also budgeting for a substantial increase in the number of police officers. Today we have about 20,000. The investment started in 2006 is wiped out due to population growth, if you look at the police density. Here we want to see a substantial increase in ambition. We want a target of 250 police officers per 100 000 inhabitants, and we believe that recruitment should take place in the future with this as a goal. This means that Sweden would need around 27 000 police officers starting in 2023, according to SCB's population forecast. We expect the first hill of police students to start a year after the decision, with newly admitted three years to come. The first hill of new police would then come out by 2020, and all the 7 000 new police officers involved would be on duty by 2023. This would mean a 35% increase from today's level, or a 22% increase if measured in increased police density. This is a very strong effort which would allow the police, for example, to restore order in areas where they feel they are no longer in full control. This would allow the police to increase internal border control, which we urgently need in order to carry out expulsions, find people who are here illegally and fight organised crime. In addition to this, we greatly increase the appropriations for the Security Service as well as for the Prosecutor's Office, by almost 10 per cent each. Säpo gets more staff for counter-terrorism, but also for personal protection, which is hard strained. There will also be resources for the implementation of an effective exchange of information between FRA and Must. The Prosecution Authority receives a general reinforcement for more staff to, among other things, safety targets and reduced lead times. We increase the funding to the Swedish courts in accordance with their budget requirements, which are underfunded. In addition, we spend SEK 168 million next year introducing permanent security controls in all Swedish courts, including operations and security personnel. 75 million of this is a one-off cost. That is something that we have proposed for several years in a row. I think it was the last parliamentary term that said no to this on the grounds that it reduces the transparency of the Swedish courts that they have security, which is ridiculous. It's the other way around. If you are safe in a court of law, it is more transparent, and then you dare to get there in another way. It's kind of like the Riksdag now with the expanded security controls. No one complains that transparency has been reduced; on the contrary, it is better for everyone. Mr President, I would like to I apologise for exceeding my speaking time a little. However, I will only briefly comment on the draft budget of the others as well. The red-greens are under-financing the judiciary, not least with regard to the police. This has also been stated by the Commissioner. The alliance, for its part, more or less precisely settles at the government level with some marginal differences. The Centre Party is cutting down by 15 million in the field of expenditure. They really wanted to cut by 145 million. But you can't have negative funding. Therefore, the proposal of the Center Party was not accepted in this part. Liberals are cutting down by SEK 10 million in the expenditure area. It's not a big decrease. The biggest reductions are made at the Swedish Prison Service and the Swedish courts. None of this is desirable to us. Correctional services have been under less strain in recent times. However, they are also responsible for, for example, transport in the event of expulsions, which we urgently need today. The Christian Democrats marginally increase the funding by only SEK 35 million on a budget of over 40 billion. The Moderates raise the funds by 55 million. This compares with the 840 million Swedish Democrats. I think it's a good bet that the Moderates make with 1,000 cops. But if you think about it a little bit, these 1,000 cops won't help. Assuming that these 1 000 police officers could start training as early as next year, when they are completed about 2019, we would be on the same police density as we are doing today. So we would achieve the status quo and thus have the same strained situation as we have today. If you look at the Moderates' proposal with an increase of 55 million, you can see that only 15 million of these 55 million can go to police and education. The rest is dedicated to the National Task Force and more police officers who can help the prosecutors in certain cases. 15 million dollars for police training would give 133 seats next year, since they cost 112,000 dollars a year. Of the 1 000 police officers, only 133 can actually begin their training beyond what is already being done next year. This investment is therefore too small and too late, although we think it is good. Mr President, I would like to I would like to take this opportunity to wish Mr President, the Bureau and the other Members a Merry Christmas.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-408	Mr President, I would like to It is, of course, good to have ambitions. You don't have to be wrong about everything. Sometimes you can be right about certain things. However, it is boring that it should work as well. Financing must somehow have sustainability. It's 17 days to New Year's. In 17 days, a new budget will arrive. With regard to the funding that you have for the major investments, you should save EUR 32 200 million over these 17 days, that is, until the next financial year, just on immigration and integration. I am not going to overinterpret, but I am almost looking at my counter-debater that he also understands that it will not be possible. It is not possible to find 32 200 million SEK just like that straight off, because it will have too great consequences, no matter who would govern this country. I mean it. That is why we are a little more modest in our proposals. We are counting on them when it comes to start-up years, and then we increase the amounts as we go. We know that there is some inertia in the machinery, for example when we are going to train more police officers. If you are going to go on your proposals, you will increase the number of places at the Police College by 1,116. That's a lot. I think Kent Ekeroth also realizes that it can't be done. What I want to say is that it is important that we have proposals and that we can continue to push the government ahead of us. However, we cannot pursue a policy of find-out money or unrealistic proposals that there is no way at all to implement, because people will be disappointed when they discover that it really is not possible.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-414	Mr President, I would like to Once again, I would like to explain how our budget works. When we make savings on immigration, it is for 2016. Moreover, it is only on new immigration. We're not even talking about everyone who's already here. It's just on the new immigration. We're closing the line. Zero asylum immigration, direct rejection – there will be no more asylum immigration. These are the savings we make, and that is the money we save. I understand that the Moderates and many others are jealous that we have so much more money than they, but it is only because we have made this priority since time immemorial. We can do it. And with a new immigration that we are reducing to zero, we will have extremely much more resources than you have because we now have such an extremely high level of immigration. Hammarbergh is trying to say that we need 1 100 new seats until the New Year. If he had read our budget, he would have seen that we are counting on the new hill of police officers to start needing at least a year's preparation time. The first hill was to be studied in 2017, not on 1 January 2016. If you look at our long-term budget, you will see that the costs of new training of police officers will also come in 2017 and increase in 2018 and 2019. So we are counting on a year of preparation. Then we expect the police to start in rounds in three years' time, that is, one third each year. The last hill will be finished with its training in 2022. This is calculated by RUT, just like the rest of our savings on the immigration budget, so I'm very comfortable with our figures – although I understand that the Moderates get a little jealous when they come with increases of 55 million and we with increases of about 2 billion.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-418	Mr President, I would like to In fact, we too have asked the parliamentary investigation service to look at how the Swedish democrats have been able to arrive at this financing figure of 32 200 million next year that they will save only on immigration and integration. The answer from the RUT is that it cannot be done. It is not possible to see where this was taken. My question to Kent Ekeroth is then: Why should there be just 32.2 billion? How did you figure that out? Why not 22 or 37 or 42 billion? How have you axed this figure to be saved next year? It's very hard to read it from the budget. Parliament's investigation service says it can't be understood. Since you should postpone the start of education a little bit and give the universities a little longer, I guess I'll have to take it back. But then it is not about 1 116 seats. There'll be a lot more people going into each round. What I understand from the very sloppy exercise is from autumn 2016. But how many places are there going to be, and how are these three universities going to do it? I would like to say once again that political ambitions are good, but you cannot finance things with money. Nor can proposals be made when there is no possibility whatsoever for those who are to carry out the task.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-422	Mr President, I would like to If Mr Hammarbergh does not understand our budget, I would urge him to look at the budget debates in the Committee on Finance, where we discuss immigration costs on a daily basis. We even have an annex to our budget in which we go through immigration costs in detail. This isn't the first year we do it. We even did that before we entered the Parliament – we put a budget on immigration costs already in 2009, where we explained in detail how we do it. What we expect is that in 2016 we can reduce immigration by 95%. We are not even counting 100%, but 95% in year one, that is next year. We then expect a 100% reduction in asylum immigration. RUT has come up with various calculations of how much it costs with reception systems and direct transfers from the state. We can only look at how much spending areas 8 Migration and 13 Integration have skyrocketed. Hammarbergh says he doesn't understand what to save on. Just look at the two posts and see how they've run away! There's a huge source of resources you can take. That's the thing about the other seven parties in this Parliament. You pick from virtually all areas and put it in your favorite area: immigration. We do the opposite. We take from immigration and give to everything else. It says a lot about us. We are usually accused of being a one-question party, but immigration is really the least of our priorities. That's the one we give the least resources to be able to give to everything else. That is our priority. You always do the opposite. When have these spending areas, integration and migration decreased in recent decades? They've just skyrocketed. If you had the right priorities, you would also have these resources. Then you would also have been interested in counting on it as we have been counting on it all these years. We use these resources, among other things, to improve the situation in the judiciary. That's why we can make very big bets. When the Moderates say they want more cops, it's great, but 55 million won't help it. Our billions will.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-430	Mr President, I would like to When I listen to Kent Ekeroth, both in his speech and in the debate just now, I hear that the whole focus is on the police. In other debates, the whole focus is on increased penalties. More police officers and increased penalties are, at least what I perceive, the main focus of Sweden's democrats in the judiciary. My question to Kent Ekeroth is: Is there anything in your thoughts that we need a crime prevention work and a job to prevent relapse into crime? These are two of the government's priorities. When we get to grips with this, when we get a reduced number of people who commit crimes, we may not need an increasing number of police officers. My question is therefore: what is the attitude and proposals of the Swedish democrats regarding crime prevention and preventing the recurrence of crime?
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-434	Mr President, I would like to It was a fairly correct view of the Swedish democrats' criminal policy. In recent years, we have focused on more stringent penalties and on the police, as Helene Petersson says. Now that's not really true – we spend quite a lot of money relative to the Swedish Prosecution Authority, the Prison Service and other things. I spoke in my speech that we increase the appropriations for the Prosecutor's Office and Säpo by 10% compared to what the government does. We're raising 5% for the police department. Yes, the Police Department is extremely important. It's the biggest authority. It is also the police who are out in the streets and squares. We need to strengthen that organisation. We've seen major flaws. We've seen reports that you can't solve crimes because you're busy dealing with your mass immigration. Unfortunately. This problem is not something that will disappear shortly, not least given that you are now so proud that you have reduced mass immigration from 10 000 a week to 4 000 a week. It's twice as much as last summer. So these problems will not go away soon, and then you have to do these things at the police department to deal with the situation. This applies not least to the issue of expulsion. It has been up several times in this House, and I have asked myself why you do not want to expel criminal foreigners, why you want to keep them in the country, why you want to give them citizenship even though they are committing serious crimes. There are lots of aspects that still need to be addressed, not least increased penalties. We see ridiculously low penalties for serious crimes every day. This needs to be addressed. We just saw that an Eritrean citizen was given five years in prison for a group rape in Ludvika. He was not expelled because of your rules and laws. This must be a priority for us as long as this situation is not resolved. I do not see many signs that anyone wants to remedy it, except the Swedish Democrats. That is why it will also be our focus in the future.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-441	Mr President, I would like to I take Kent Ekeroth as meaning that you simply do not have any proposals. You do not have a programme on crime prevention. You have nothing to reduce the risk of people regressing into crime. It is clear that more money must be spent on the Prison Service if you are to tighten the penalties. The more people are in prison and the longer they are in prison, the more costs. But if it is something society – above all the individual but also everyone around – benefits from it is the crime that never happens. This is where the focus must be. In this respect, society must use all its resources to prevent crime from being committed and people from going to prison or other punishments. Throwing into prison, locking the door and throwing away the key could be an option. But it is not the alternative of the Social Democrats or the government. I don't think it was the last government either. My question remains. Do you have a proposal in these two areas?
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-446	Mr President, I would like to Much of the rehabilitation that is taking place today takes place in the K. Correctional Service, which has a rehabilitation responsibility. They have a lot of different projects and efforts to rehabilitate and not relapse into crime when entering society. Your recipe for the last few years has been a magpsy. The recidivism rate is 40 – 50 per cent in many groups. We want to see the correctional system tighten up drastically. Today is the Wild West. Prisoners have a lot of rights, and they need to do very little to enjoy the fairly high standard of prison care. They can get flat-screen TVs. You destroy it because you're pissed off, you get a new one. There's no balance in that. Part of the crime prevention work must be that we make higher demands in the prison system so that the inmates understand that they are incapacitated and that they are not entitled to everything, for example to a television. It has to be disciplined. They must learn how to behave in prison, otherwise they will not receive benefits and benefits. It's central. This policy must be tightened up. Today, the prison service is an educational place for criminals, and so many return to crime. To get to it, the correctional system needs to be more repressive. There's got to be more security cameras in there. Today, there are surveillance cameras in the halls, but not in the cells. But where are the drug trade and assaults committed? Yes, in the cells. When people come to visit, they are rarely searched. There's no lockdown with glass, so much is smuggled in. Then crime can continue through mobile phone contact with criminals outside. We need a more repressive penitentiary so that those criminals understand the rights and obligations that apply. It's central.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-453	Mr President, I would like to It is exciting to stand again in this speaker's seat. I support the committee's proposal. I support the reservations of the Green Party, the Social Democrats and the Left Party, but in order to gain time, I will refrain from calling for their approval. I would like to raise the debate a little and start with an outlook. The various social institutions whose economies we are debating are police, courts and other judicial systems. It makes me reflect on the background I have. I grew up as a foreign Swede in then West Germany. Nowadays I live in the multicultural city of Södertälje. What surprised me most when I moved back to Sweden was that I had to reconsider when it came to society's institutions. As I said, I grew up in Germany, a country that was not very far away and was quite like Sweden. There one looked with great distrust at all the public institutions. In particular, trust in the police was low, but also in the courts and the prison service a trust was low. I have studied this issue in depth and looked at various studies. One favourite is World Values Survey, which describes for example community trust globally. I see then that we in Sweden have something that is unique all over the world. We assume that the institutions of society are for us citizens and that we can trust them and make demands on them. They're for us. They're not there to be repressive against us or to push us down if we haven't done anything wrong, of course. Of course the police are going to frame criminals. Criminals should then be judged by law and rules, but they should also be given a chance to find their way back to the right path. It took me a long time to learn this difference. I still remember walking on the streets of Gothenburg and thinking about the attitude that existed towards patrolling police officers. It was so different in Sweden from what I was used to from Germany – and Germany is still a country that we think is quite similar to Sweden. But that's why it's interesting. This is the draft budget we are debating. How do we want to build society's institutions? Should they be for the citizens or not? Let me move on to my experiences in Södertälje. I was a councillor there for six years. I am full of admiration for the work of the police there against serious organised crime. I am pleased with the efforts that are being made where the experiences made in Södertälje are passed on to the whole country. We had big problems in Södertälje, and we still have problems. It's not a problem-free city, but it's so much better. The police succeeded with a great achievement, for they managed to build trust in the organs of society among our inhabitants who have come here from other cultures. They managed to get them to trust that the police and also the court in Sweden were different from in other countries. I followed the court proceedings closely and was in fact quite afraid that conviction would not succeed. We all knew that these people were guilty, but it was a matter of proving it. It's not always easy to prove something objective. I may think a lot I want, but proving it can be very difficult if the defendant has been cunning enough. These very pieces are what we need to protect. We can discuss how many police officers and how many civilian employees we're going to have and who's going to do what. But there seems to be a consensus that we want to develop this in order to preserve and expand the trust in society's institutions that we have in Sweden. It is particularly important at a time of great international concern that we can stand together and say that we want to continue with this. The initiatives proposed in the budgetary area that we are about to decide on today are very much based on what I think we need to protect and not throw away. We must be aware that this is something unique in the world. That is our common foundation of values, and we should safeguard it much more.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-465	Mr President, I would like to Let me welcome Mats Pertoft back to Parliament and to the Committee on Justice. It was a good and important post. Mats Pertoft is absolutely right that we are unique. Our authorities enjoy great confidence in the citizens. I often have guests from Ukraine. The first comment almost everyone makes is: We do not understand how it works. We hardly ever see any cops, but it seems to be quiet anyway. For them, it's a strange picture, and they find it hard to take in. You're doing the right analysis. We must protect this. For our part, that is what the discussion is about. In times of unrest, the authorities are faced with a rather difficult situation and quite a lot of pressure, and above all the people who work in the authorities. Now I think first of all about the police, who are always the ultimate outpost of society when no one else takes up, and many people get tired and stressed out. Our starting point is that we must follow this reform very closely from a political point of view. I feel that on your part there is openness to this precisely to safeguard what you are so eloquently raising. It is about protecting a system in which people feel secure in what the authorities do and are not afraid of the authorities.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-471	Mr. Iman! Thank you, Krister Hammarbergh! I fully agree with the words that have been said. It is precisely the preservation of these common values that should pervade the whole debate. It is also about respect for the police and other professions and their ability to determine and direct their activities in a constructive way.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-472	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of Amendment No 20 on mass crimes which the Center Party has together with the Moderates under paragraph 34. Of course, I support all our reservations, but for time to come I only support this. Winter darkness has fallen over Sweden. It feels like it came early this year. This winter feels darker than many others, and the stormy nights keep many awake for more than one reason. At the beginning of September this year, images of a child who had drowned and washed ashore on a beach in Greece were distributed worldwide. This made the vast majority aware of the greatest wave of refugees since World War II. One would think that at a time when news reaches thousands of miles in a few seconds, people throughout the world, and perhaps especially in nearby Europe, should understand that people are fleeing for their lives and that they have no choice. Whole neighborhoods have been bombed. School students' lessons are interrupted by the explosive power of oil barrel bombs. Young people are fleeing what should be the security of their families on a dangerous journey to Europe. Any human should understand that you do not go on such a journey if you do not have to. Mr President, I would like to It can be good to get some perspective on life sometimes. At the same time as we cry over terrible reports, Sweden reports that the church teaches asylum seekers in Swedish, that the repo rate is unchanged, that the investment plans for Ringhals I and II have changed and that Martin Almgren won Idol, and that was also good. That is something to be enjoyed. This is news we get when some people claim that Sweden is facing a collapse. Despite the doomsday talk, I see no signs of bombed neighborhoods, washed up children along Swedish coasts or young people fleeing their families a lot. But some people believe in the doomsday talk. Some believe in it to the extent that they resort to weapons, weapons in the form of lighter fluid and matches. Over 20 asylum homes are burning for a short time. Asylum seekers, many of whom were traumatized by terrible events, are awake in shifts for fear of being burned inside. Then comes another blow. Not long after most flames have gone out, the first reports from Paris on 13 November are that extremists have taken up arms against innocent people. Violent acts have hit Paris in the autumn, but also Lebanon and Turkey. The world is gripped by even greater anxiety. Mr President, I would like to In distress, my friend is being tested, they say. That is probably true, but there is more to be tried in need: v in people, we as a country and not least as politicians. It is we who are set to make balanced and good decisions and not to panic and make short-term and ill-considered laws. We have a responsibility. It is a responsibility to make long-term wise laws, a responsibility to think before we act, but actually also a responsibility to set out a direction based on our conviction of what is right and on the basis of political leadership. You could say that the government has some work to do on that point. Mr President, I would like to For me as a center party, the individual is most important. The individual does not exist for the state, but vice versa. The state exists for the individual. It is hardly an area where the state has such an important role as in protecting its citizens from crime and terrorism. When it comes to terrorism, six of Parliament's parties have reached an agreement that I am pleased and proud of. It will take us a long way towards a safer Sweden. But there's more we have to do. The events of autumn mean that we must think again. We have the greatest opportunity to fight crime if we start with the individual. It is the individual who is the victim of the crimes, and it is the individual who commits the crimes, but it is also the individual who prevents crime. Above all, all individual police officers have an extremely important role to play in this. The police must be given a chance to do a good job. The police are currently in the middle of the largest reorganisation that has been done in many years. It creates anxiety and frustration. Mr President, I would like to Since we started preparing and working on the budget, a lot has happened. In the past, the Commissioner has played down the need for additional resources, and perhaps we have relied too much on it. Since then, however, all the dramatic events of autumn have taken place. As has previously been explained here from the speaker's chair, we have received nearly 2,000 letters from police officers all over the country giving a different picture than the carefree picture. That is why we in the Center Party have decided to announce a commitment of 2 billion over four years for future budgets. This means, for example, that we will have the opportunity to train and hire an additional 1 600 new police officers, not just 1 000 but 1 600. There is also enough for more things. We want to spend 160 million on ensuring that those district police officers who, in the new police organisation, are the police officers who will come closest to the citizens can have better conditions, and above all, that their salaries will be increased. This increases the attractiveness of applying for such services, and it encourages the area police to remain in their roles. Before you throw yourself at the line buttons, I would like to say that I am well aware that the pay is being paid by the social partners. That's right, isn't it? The police themselves must assess how the SEK 160 million will be used in a good way so that it will be a long-term crime prevention work locally. However, as in the case of first teachers' salaries, for example, I believe that a targeted effort would be a good application. The Center Party would like as many people as possible to know who their local police are. Knowing who the local police are increases the chances of increasing confidence not only in the individual police but also in the police as a whole and, by extension, in the rule of law. In areas where the culture of silence prevails, particularly in areas where radicalisation and juvenile delinquency are at risk of creating more violence, higher drug use and more fear than anywhere else, police work against radicalisation and juvenile delinquency is most important. There are several things we want to bet on that I do not have time to mention here today. We want to spend $140 million, especially on curbing burglary and theft. It is also on this point of quantity crime that I support the reservation. We know that a large proportion of the thefts committed in Sweden are committed by theft leagues, and they must be stopped. We have proposed a new offence, systematic theft, with sharper penalties than those normally imposed for theft today. Together with a police effort to stop the thefts in rural and urban areas, this could increase security and strengthen engagement, such as cooperation against crime. Uncertainty has several faces, and action is required on several levels. The police efforts we make are an important part of making Sweden safer. Although the winter darkness has settled over Sweden and the concern for the future is great among many, we still have to try to keep up hope. You shouldn't get stuck in the dark. The vast majority of us want to live a life free from crime, war, hostility and fear. It is a minority of a minority that wants to create chaos and discord between a violent Islamic sect and the rest of the world. It is a minority, albeit a loud one, who wants to distinguish between us and them. Although the winter darkness has settled over Sweden, and it may have come early this year, it is better to light a candle than to curse the darkness. Let's do it.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-493	Mr President, I would like to The Left Party has negotiated the budget bill with the government. We support the original proposal. The report contains a number of announcements that are worth discussing but which, in my view, are about marginal things, at least economically. If you look at the various draft budgets of the bourgeois parties in this area, you can see that they differ very little from those of the government. The Moderates are spending $55 million, and the Center is down by $15 million. I mean, it's not that big of a deal. It is interesting to see what proposals are made by the opposition, what issues are raised and what announcements are made. I would like to point out that there are quite a few announcements in the report that are being made because the Swedish Democrats are supporting the proposals with the citizens. That's something to think about. It can provide some conditions for how to discuss things. Nevertheless, I think that the bourgeois parties have some kind of honest approach to do things in a somewhat good way. There is a seriosity, which, I believe, is not in the hands of the Swedish Democrats. As before, there is a difficult false picture of how things are done to make it work. There is one thing that can be seen a lot, and I think that should be highlighted. We have a number of common reservations from S, V and MP against the announcements. The Left Party also has three reservations of its own on the basis of motions from the general period of exercise that deal with these matters. I shall touch on them before concluding my speech, but I shall begin by calling for our own reservation 15, which deals with honour-related repression. That is a rather burning question. There are different points of contact in different parts of politics, but honor-related oppression is about cultural issues, what you have highlighted, where you come from and how to handle different things. In our position, it is very much a question of this being found in patriarchal structures, about which we talk a lot. That's the starting point. It's really nothing else, it's a culture of honor. We know that this is being done and that the national coordinator is working against violence in close relationships. But this problem is so complex and hot that we would like to see these issues highlighted more in the future and work more with them to get a survey of what it really looks like. This mapping can then be used in the practical work. We believe that this is an issue that needs to be followed up in the field of justice policy. These are spectacular things that sometimes happen in the name of honor. When it comes to the emergency services, there are some other parties that raise the questions about why they do not have the emergency services – we know what happened a few years ago – and what use it would have. I think we need a good search and investigation, not least in the light of the fact that today there is a discussion on how to use the Swedish Armed Forces when it comes to law enforcement, crises and such things. Then you have to have a well-founded basis to be able to make positions in such a way that you do the right things. We believe that the emergency police are something that could come back in the light of what is happening in the defence policy, where we are talking about, for example, re-establishing part of military service. It is worth highlighting that picture and making a thorough investigation of whether it should come back. We will highlight this in any future budgetary negotiations with the government. The last thing we have is the treatment of victims, which has also been discussed. It is important that we have a good organisation that builds up a good response to those who fall victim to crime, where there are certain shortcomings today. We need to work to get those pieces out and both strengthen competence in general and find the things that are specific in different areas, depending on what crime you have been subjected to. That is one thing that we will also be raising in future budget negotiations with the government. The crime that stands out a little today, as was also the case with the Center Party, is very much about us getting into the discussion about what is terrorism, extremism and such things. We will have reason to talk in future budget negotiations about things such as the increasing number of fires in asylum homes. It is a kind of extremism and terrorism which I believe will be difficult and which we have to deal with in the legal society, if we are to have an open and democratic society. The draft budget of the Swedish Democrats seems to me to be so far from world-wide that it is difficult to even comment. They're spending 1.9 billion. Someone's been into it, and I think that's enough. I am in favour of our Amendment No 15 and of the proposal in the report as a whole.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-509	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to support reservations 3 and 33, although we Liberals support all our reservations. We've heard a lot about the new police organization. In the judicial system, which we are debating today, this is the biggest decision we have taken in the last two years – to transform, streamline and streamline the police organisation and get the resources far, closest to the citizens. In the speech by Helene Petersson from the Social Democrats, I heard that they think that the police organisation has the opportunity to reorganise itself today and that if you want to invest in and prioritise more local police or local police officers in the districts, you can do that, about that. But it's not that simple. That is why the Liberals and the Alliance, together with the majority of the Committee on Justice, make an announcement. A clear political priority is also needed, not least in terms of resources. It cannot be assumed that there will be 10, 15 or 20 police officers in the local area in Gothenburg or Örebro, who have great concerns in Vivalla, just because we think so orally in this Chamber. That's not true. That's not how the reform works. Yes, there is a mission to Statskontoret. In fact, it was the alliance government that decided on it in April 2014. But the delivery time for the final report is 2018, i.e. at the end of this term of office. If I remember correctly, the first interim report will be published in October next year. Already today we see indications and signs of concern. Will the legislator's direction, will and ambition for the new police organisation land in what we want to achieve? There are questions, and that is why we want a closer follow-up and a previous feedback to the policy. Mr President, I would like to I would like to mention again in particular our announcement of increased police presence in the areas affected by crime. It is remarkable that the government does not propose and even at the end of the line did not give any concrete information about resource reinforcements to the areas, not least in Gothenburg, Örebro and Stockholm. In our shadow budget, liberals make a special effort at local crime prevention in the most vulnerable areas. There is an extra 5 million for the police and a further 25 million - in addition to the government's budget - for the work against particular radicalisation and extremism. It is pointed out in our proposal that the Crime Prevention Council, the police or the corresponding municipalities should have this money to specifically combat radicalisation, which is one of our greatest challenges today. The second issue I would particularly like to highlight is our proposal in the report to reinstate the emergency services. It has been in force since 1986 and has been applied and used for population protection, civil protection, surveillance tasks, access protection, transport and more. More than a month ago, the Liberals put a written question to the Minister for the Interior, who replied on 18 November: ..................................................... I want to know from the government parties: what situations should we wait for? We have internal border controls, we have raised terrorist threats and we have migration policies that make it difficult in many municipalities and around the Migration Agency's facilities, which have also been subjected to external attacks. That's where we'd need surveillance. We have heard from the chief of police when he visited the Committee on Justice that they need reinforcements. They need to be alerted. The Minister for the Interior was in SVT Stockholm just a few weeks ago and replied in relation to Sigtuna that one should perhaps reintroduce something like emergency police. But he never used the word emergency police. I would like to know today whether this is possible, Mr President. Will the emergency services be reinstated or not? Liberals want to highlight the fight against terrorism in particular. During the spring, we have repeatedly demanded that the Swedish Prosecution Authority be given a mandate in the regulation letter to prioritise the work against terrorism. We have also included this in the agreement reached last week with the government. On one point, however, we still disagree: We allocate more resources to the two chambers of the Prosecutor's Office. One is the National Unit for Security Targets, that is, terrorism, and the other is the Unit for Genocide and War Crimes. We have no idea how three prosecutors out of 1,000 will deal with all cases of terrorism. With our draft budget, we want to double the capacity so that more can be prosecuted and so that more evidence can be collected to apply the terrorist legislation that we already have. Yesterday came a decision from the Gothenburg District Court which also confirms that there is a terror law. With these words, we support all the reservations, but we urge that reservations 3 and 33 be given special approval in respect of hate crimes.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-527	Mr President, I would like to I really only have one brief question. Correct me if I'm wrong now, but wasn't the People's Party at the time, the current Liberals, a party of those who were to shut down the emergency services? I would like to recall that there was an outstanding consensus within the Alliance to do so. This was 2012. The first question is: Is that so? That's how I remember it. And how has the analysis changed? The second question is: where is the money for emergency police in your budget? I don't see any.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-529	Mr President, I would like to Yes, that's correct. But do not compare 2015 and the migration influx we have now, the acute problems and asylum attacks on a number of asylum homes or future accommodations for unaccompanied minors, with 2012! The assessment then, based on the Swedish National Police Board's documentation, was that the emergency police are superfluous. It was resources in the budget that were not used. It had only been used a few times. But right now, and that's what the Liberals are referring to, the chief of police is demanding reinforcement. You start talking about security guards, about preparedness-like efforts, and about calling in non-profit forces. We cannot have a defence or rearrange our security and security capabilities based on non-profit forces. That is why we have opened up to this. It is true that there is no specific request for funding here, but we are ready. We've opened up for this. If there are signals from the government, we will go home and also go through our budget and make sure that we scrape out SEK 10 – 15 million. That's what it's all about.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-533	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that the Liberals want the emergency services. The Swedish Democrats have budgeted for this every year since 2012. The Liberals were involved in shutting down the emergency services because it wasn't necessary at the time. But this is not the way to think: This has not been used in a few months. We put it down, and start up the whole business again a few months later just because there is an emergency situation right now! The whole point is that it's supposed to be just an emergency police officer. They're supposed to be on standby, and you're supposed to use them when you need them. That's the whole point. They're supposed to be there, and when you need them, they're ready. You can't have once where you put them down for a month and start them up next month just because something happens. Then you lose the whole point of it being an emergency police officer. I heard the argument that the National Police Board at the time said that you should shut down the emergency police because there was no evidence and that it was not used. I examined this a little closer, and the interesting thing is that there was a need. The then police authorities asked the National Police Board. They wanted to call 911 several times. The National Police Board said no. It is therefore quite interesting that the National Police Board says that the emergency police are not needed when they themselves have prohibited its use. Thus, there is a zero in the statistics on how it is used. That's how it happened. The fact that the police are demanding reinforcements is not just a matter of asylum accommodation. This is nothing new. The understaffing and the effort of the police are nothing new. The erosion of the police has continued since at least 2010, when the investment in 20,000 police officers was achieved. Since then, the police have been eroded all along. Understaffing in the police is a question of efficiency and a question that the effort has fallen behind. It's nothing new. I welcome the fact that the Liberals have changed their minds. It's better than nothing to change under the gallows, but you would still want more.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-539	Mr President, I would like to I mentioned that the Emergency Police Organisation has existed since 1986. It operated until the 2012 financial year. It's not a few months. Then Kent Ekeroth will have to read about the business. I myself have been privileged to sit on the National Police Board until 30 April this year. I have never heard a chief police officer or anyone else responsible actively present to us politicians on the board that the emergency police should be reinstated. There have certainly been conditions for when it may be called in. But again: I still maintain that the situation today in terms of security and security, asylum homes, internal border controls, etc. cannot be compared to 2012.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-542	Mr President, I would like to We got a straight question from Roger Haddad about the emergency services and whether we're going to introduce it. I know that Roger Haddad himself has had talks with the Minister for the Interior on this particular issue. It's also been a TV feature. The government is today saying that it is clear that there is a need to strengthen the police's capabilities. However, it is not said in what way – whether civilian duties, security guards, some form of other activity or emergency police are added. So no doors have been closed on the part of the government. I want to go back to what it was like in 2012. As was said in the last shift, the emergency police were not used, and it was the police who felt that there was no need to keep the operation. If it is to be reinstated, it must be done in consultation with the police. After all, it's the police that's in the background for the emergency services. It must not act on its own initiative, if I have understood correctly. There's a need for a police officer with the Emergency Response Team. One can strengthen the police a lot in this way, but yet dialogue with the police must be conducted: Is it precisely this measure that is most effective in order to strengthen the police's ability? There could be a few other things too.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-545	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Helene Petersson! Nevertheless, I would like to refer to the written reply of the Minister for the Interior, which I have before me. It's dated November 18th – not even a month back. It says that the government does not believe that the conditions are such that work should be initiated at all. On the other hand, it lists guardians, civilian tasks and some form of intervention. We are talking about the fact that we also want to get more police officers out, while at the same time investigating an academy of police training that would extend the time before actually feeding a number of people into this very strained situation. That is why the chief of police has mentioned in various contexts that there is a need for reinforcement. Should I interpret Helene Petersson's speech as having started a process of reviewing, for example, the reinstatement of the emergency services? If so, that would be news.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-547	Mr President, I would like to Roger Haddad will interpret my speech as saying that Minister of the Interior Anders Ygeman has not closed any doors. The government sees a need for reinforcement, but in what way and in what areas it will take place, the government will certainly return to. If this is to happen quickly, it is of course not the training of more police officers that is needed, because it will take three years. I am sure it is also necessary, and we have an inquiry into a new education that will be delivered in spring. Let's see what it looks like. But if we are to have rapid reinforcements, it must be done differently. I believe that the main measure is that a great deal of work can be done by civil servants instead of the police-trained. But, as I said, the Home Secretary has not closed the door to any of the things he listed in this feature of SVT.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-551	Mr President, I would like to In the beginning, like the Moderates and Liberals, I would like to endorse reservations 3 and 33. The Christian Democrats are, of course, behind all their reservations, but we call for the approval of these two in order to save time at voting time. Mr President, I would like to Christian-democratic justice policy is based on the realization of human imperfection. Crime has always been and will always occur. The State shall endeavour to limit crime as far as possible. It is essential to maintain people's confidence in the police and the rest of the judiciary. The crucial long-term work on prevention starts early. It is adults who should give children frames and boundaries that teach children what is right and what is wrong. It's r amar that gives strength to resist peer pressure and not get on the wrong road and commit crimes. Parents must therefore be supported in their role so that they can be present and share in their children's lives. It is the adults, both in the family and in school, who will give young people identity and social security, not gang members, as is the case today, for example in many suburbs of the big cities. The fact that parents have more time for their children has a number of positive effects and is in itself crime prevention. Family stability should therefore be pursued as a fundamental objective for society and also as a crime prevention resource. Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats believe that all crime, including everyday crime, must be combated. The police should be effective and given the tools needed to tackle everyday crime. The police must therefore be provided with the tools and resources necessary to carry out their task. The police are facing major challenges today, and there will be a need for further action. The police are now undergoing a major reorganisation, which several in this House have been involved in. The aim is to have a more effective police force throughout the country that also comes closer to the citizens with more resources in the local community. We believe that it is important to follow this up so that the purpose of the reorganisation is achieved and that the work is more effective. That is precisely what is affected in two of the nine announcements in the report that we Christian Democrats welcome. Of course, I support all the announcements, but my fellow alliances have touched them in such a way that in this case I am content to talk about these two announcements. Instead, I would like to address two priority areas for the Christian Democrats in our budget option. It deals with support for victims of crime and the resources of the Security Service. The Christian Democrats support the government's increase in funding to the Swedish Security Service. However, the tight security situation means that the Christian Democrats propose a higher amount of funding to the Swedish Security Service than the government does. Säpo has great challenges in dealing with terrorist war travel to Iraq and Syria. Approximately 300 people have travelled from Sweden and joined IS and Al-Qaida-inspired groups. The Swedish Security Service has also raised the threat level from elevated threats to high threats, i.e. an increase from a third to a fourth on the five-degree scale, here in Sweden. The need for personal protection has increased, and the number of legal ones during rectification operations against Sweden as well. The Swedish Security Service is Russia's biggest intelligence threat to Sweden. Russia's espionage in and against Sweden is very extensive. With this in mind, it is important to increase the funding for the Swedish Security Service. Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats also want to strengthen the work aimed at victims of crime. Victims of crime should receive support and help in redress. The success of the judicial system in its main tasks, i.e. the investigation of crimes, the arrest of suspects and the conviction of guilty persons, is part of this redress. Victim Support Finland works with non-profit and scarce resources. The Christian Democrats want to strengthen this work and therefore devote SEK 20 million to your government's funding in support of the b rottsofferjourna and to increase the government's responsibility in terms of witness support. Persons who have been victims of crime must be informed of the way in which the legal process is conducted and of the possibilities for assistance available. D e must be informed of what is happening in the individual case. Many times, the rights process is perceived by the victims as stressful. In order to be able to go through the right process, victims must be given a professional and compassionate response by the judicial authorities. This requires awareness of the needs and reactions of victims. I'd like to get back to the announcements. The Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights is proposing two announcements that will mark the position of the victim, on the one hand as regards understanding and relevant information, and on the other hand as regards the need for the police to be better at providing information on what is happening with an investigation and at reconnecting with the victim within three months of a report being drawn up. The Government is asked to return to the day of the trial with a description of the measures taken to improve the investigation, follow-up and feedback to the victim. It is also necessary to explain what has been done to ensure that the victim is given the right treatment and information about the possibility of receiving witness support. This is a matter of great urgency for the Christian Democrats, which is why we support these announcements.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-566	Mr President, I would like to One might think that the debate has been long, but it still touches on few areas in the broad budget field that we are now debating. I would like to begin by agreeing with Krister Hammarbergh's motion. When I looked up the paper this morning, I noted that the Prime Minister was wrong, again. Press enquiries: Marjory van den Broeke (Strasbourg) tel.(33) 3 881 74751 (Brussels) tel.(32-2) 28 42941 e-mail : libe-press@europarl.eu.int I don't think he'll convince anyone of that. It is true that the media tire of writing about the same issue quite quickly over and over again, and certainly get used to many in a crisis in the state of affairs, but the fact that the number of asylum seekers and refugees would no longer pose challenges is a mere fantasy. Thousands of people have gone to Sweden. More will come in the next few years, and many are unaccompanied children. I believe that the flow of refugees will challenge us for a long time to come. It is just as well that we realise this. Since we have to bear in mind that this is about people, we also need decent action and that we work on the basis of solidarity, not least on all the issues that this concerns. We also need to see the reality of the judiciary. Law enforcement authorities are already facing major challenges in this regard. This applies, in particular, to the police, which have temporary border controls at various authorities and which will work with security and security in refugee camps of various kinds. In addition, a large number of suspected arsons and vandalism cases need to be investigated. On Thursday, the police are given another major task by the majority. The police shall take over responsibility for the supervision of bus drivers, conductors and others who will check the identity of coaches, trains and ferries. All of this is added to the whole of the law enforcement activity that they are already to deal with and that is not always carried out as well as we would like. This budget bill is an excellent example of the government meeting challenges too slowly and too late. The proposal shows that it does not consider that the police need more resources. You even go so far as to remove the requirement of how many police officers are to exist. I've seen it in politics before. I remember well when the Social Democrats in special order retired police officers in order to make the budget go together. That's not where we're going again. The commitment of the alliance government to 20,000 police officers was absolutely necessary. That is why I am also pleased that Parliament can now make an announcement that it is a minimum level that should not be underestimated. But that's not enough. There's more to it. In their budget motion, the Moderates propose 1 000 more police officers in the coming years. I have noticed that the chief of police now also believes that this is a necessary level. My question to the Social Democrats is almost: are you not a little ashamed to put forward a budget to reduce the number of police officers at this point in time? Where's too many cops? Is it in Skåne, in Gothenburg or in the interior of Norrland? You have to ask yourself that question. The Parliament also wants to make an announcement on investigations regarding follow-up and feedback to victims. We want the government to return to the Riksdag with an account of the measures taken to improve criminal investigations and how they have followed those issues. That's reasonable. The results are too bad. In view of the high tailings that Morgan Johansson and the Social Democrats had during the last parliamentary term on those very issues, it is only reasonable that the Minister should return here to Parliament and tell us what has been done. The reservations of the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left this time are justified, among other things, by the fact that they believe that so many initiatives have been taken in recent years. It should be fun to tell you. In May 2014, Morgan Johansson wrote in Svenska Dagbladet: I have not seen such a proposal. In our announcement, we're a little more modest. We say that they may have three months to contact the person who has been the victim of a crime with feedback on how to work with the case. But we would like to press ahead with this. It is important for citizens to receive this feedback from the Poli Authority. That is something the Social Democrats have been pushing. Now you stand here and reserve and think it is unnecessary or in any case nothing that you want to tell us about in Parliament. I don't understand that logic. The announcement is about much more, such as the quality of investigations and what is being done. There are a great many shortcomings, for which we also think improvements are needed. The other day we saw an example in the paper. It was told that in 50 percent of cases where you get a DNA hit, you don't do anything at all. Even when you get a name proposal on a person who's been at a crime scene, you don't lift the case. That is totally unacceptable. Of course, action is needed. And we want to know what the government is doing. There is more to be done in this area.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-583	Mr President, I would like to I suspect that Beatrice Ask would rather have a reply from the government parties. But she gets one of me instead. As I said in my speech, it is positive that the Moderates have come out with a concrete proposal for 1 000 new police officers. We want more than that. But when the Moderates take that step along the way, we could reach a consensus between the parties, even for budgeting purposes. One could even think of a consensus budget to get to grips with this. I have a question. For I sat and counted on it a little bit earlier. In 2015, we have a population of almost 9.9 million, and we have 20,000 police officers. That means we have one officer per 494 inhabitants. With the Moderates' proposal of 1,000 extra police officers who would reasonably be completed in 2019, we would once again be on one police officer per 495 inhabitants. This means maintaining the status quo against today and still having a strained situation. According to the Moderates' budget, 1 000 police officers cannot be trained starting in 2016. What remains of the 55 million investment is 15 million when we deduct for the National Task Force and the other to go to help the prosecutors. This means that 133 people could start their education next year. So there is already a backlog. What have the Moderates been thinking about with their bet? Are there higher ambitions to speed up for more police officers in Sweden?
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-588	Mr President, I would like to Thanks for the question, Kent Ekeroth! Our assessment has been that we must at least ensure that we do not have a deterioration in police capacity. For that reason, we chose to land on 1,000 new police officers. To calculate what is reasonable, we used the Parliamentary Investigation Service and based on experience and contacts with the Government Office. Hence the figures in the budget. We believe that we must at least ensure the level that is now. We do not go forward with further efforts because it is also important to get more efficiency out of the police organisation that exists. It's one way of trying to balance things.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-592	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. I understand that sometimes you have to step forward carefully. But of the Moderates' proposal, there will be 133 new training places next year. It is quite a long way from 1 000 if you have the ambition that they will come out in 2019. If 133 extra police officers are trained per year, we will be in the 2030s before the 1,000 extra police officers are out – not quite, but almost. It's a laudable bet. But I think it needs a lot more, a lot faster. An organisation is also needed in order to have more training places. Therefore, the Swedish Democrats believe that a training of many new police officers can be started only in 2017. I thought the Moderates would have a higher level of ambition in this area. I may think that the Moderates also have high tail movements sometimes. Having said that, I still think it is positive. I hope that the ambition will remain in the coming years and that other alliance parties will depend on this so that we can make a real change with more police officers in Sweden. It is necessary, not least with regard to immigration, the establishment of organised crime, the riots in our suburbs and the like. We need real power. At least it is positive that the Moderates are taking such a step.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-598	Madam President, I would like You can always want more and faster. We have based on the facts that we have been able to obtain from the parliamentary investigation service, as a minimum. Of course, if you can do more and better faster, you should do it. I think we need a lot more cops. But this is what we got into our budget. We also have the ambition that plus and minus should go together, as a whole. You can also work with the admissions. In fact, admission to police training has already been increased, precisely because the Poli authorities perceive that there is a need for more police officers. So things can also be done within the system. I am not particularly locked to numbers in every detail of this. We have pointed to an increase in ambition that we think is necessary to secure the current level. We have tried to count as best we can now without an entire Treasury department to help. I suppose the Swedish Democrats do the same. However, we have managed a little better to reconcile our income. But it is important to get the power that more police officers can still provide. In addition, if the new organization can be used to get you out of the current organisation, I think we can solve one or another problem or another. This is not just the case for those who were listed by Kent Ekeroth, whom I think are important. There is a mass crime, that is, ordinary crimes that constantly affect ordinary people. They need to be handled better. Right now, the police are putting away a lot of everyday work, which in the long term may mean that citizens do not have enough confidence in the police. I can't let that happen. One reason for the announcement is to point to the importance of the local police and some other things that we have in our announcements and motions.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-606	Madam President, I would like With regard to the area of expenditure on the judiciary, there is no doubt that the Swedish Democrats have had the opportunity to prioritise the most resources of all parties together in this House to all areas of the judiciary. When, over the years, we have tried to talk about the existence of a contradiction between open borders and unconditional conditions for migration on the one hand and a solidarity-based, strong welfare society on the other hand, it has for some reason been regarded by other parties as a malicious invention. Think, Madam President, how wrong they were! Now society at different levels has experienced a burden as a result of the unconditional migration policy. The biggest effects on schools, health care, social services and so on are likely to be experienced in the next year when the establishment of new arrivals begins to take place in the municipalities. Migration policy is not just a burden on school and health care. It will, of course, also make demands on the various responsibilities of the Committee on Justice, and not least on the Police Authority and the Security Police because there has been no control over who has entered our country. The police are the authority that, in our area of responsibility, will experience a more direct burden of responsibility, and this has also been the case in recent years, and perhaps particularly in the last six months. Apart from terrorist threats and border controls, we can see how the work in the outlying areas has become much more stressful for the police. The population has increased through increased migration. However, neither the former nor the present government has had much ambition to increase the number of police officers per 1 000 inhabitants at the same rate. This has also led to an increased workload for the police. As a single party, the Swedish Democrats have proposed that the number of police officers in our country should be related to the number of inhabitants. We have also budgeted for this, as has been said earlier in the course of the debate. We have set a benchmark of 250 police officers per 100 000 inhabitants, as in many other European countries. Madam President, I would like It is clear that such targets can be dropped, just as the Red-Green Government has done when the target of at least 20 000 police officers has been dropped. It also tightens the belt of the Poli Authority as the Red-Green Government has also done, despite alarming signals from employees and trade unions. If only organised crime remains calm, if no terrorist threat is realised, if the government's migration policy does not lead to the uncontrolled flow of migration that calls for border controls, if only the suburban riots with riots and burning cars turn into youth groups that instead help old ladies across the street, then I believe that the government's abolished target numbers for the least number of police officers and a heavy strain on the Poli Authority do not jeopardise the security work that the Swedish people expect from the police. But, Madam President, I live in reality, and when you do, you get a little worried about the government's naive attitude to the pressures that we face. However, a small sense of security is that the Swedish Democrats are still wave champions and that the Alliance continues to present some joint proposals that are in line with our policy. One such proposal that has resulted in an announcement is to keep a minimum of 20,000 police officers. As I said, we have much higher and more ambitious objectives than the Alliance in terms of training more and increasing the number of police officers. However, when we have a decisive vote in favour of a proposal to keep a minimum number of police officers or to remove that target, it is quite natural for us to do what we can to influence so that the number of police officers in our country does not at least decrease. When it comes to announcements where the Swedish Democrats have had a decisive vote, it is a tool that we actively use to ensure that parts of our policies have an impact. By now, the government has had to get used to the fact that the Justice Committee has been active, which has resulted in many announcements. In the report for our area of expenditure, the committee has proposed a total of nine committee initiatives. This concerns issues ranging from follow-up of police work in crime-prone areas to witness support. But not least, we are making an announcement to reintroduce the requirement to have at least 20 000 police officers. That, Madam President, is an important step, but it is far from all that is needed to satisfy the ambitions of the Swedish democrats for the justice system. Finally, I support Kent Ekeroth's motion.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-621	Madam President, I would like When you have a lot of money in your draft budget, it is easy to beat your chest for all the good things you want to do. But, Adam Marttinen, the ambition of more policemen is something we can agree with. I also think there is something to this about the fact that it is next year that the challenges come for many authorities, not least for the judiciary when Mr Säpo is going to examine the issues of residence permits for those who have already arrived and when to control more and more returnees from terrorist activities. When you read the proposals of the Swedish Democrats, you get the impression that you are knocking in many open doors to prove how tough, big and strong you have become. One interesting thing is the requirement for camera surveillance in all prison cells. What's the point of that? Another idea you've come up with is that you want to stop the drugs in the prisons. The drugs declined quite radically during the time of the alliance government, and there has been no change in that part. What else is to be done? There's not a lot of drug problems in the country's correctional institutions. The Swedish Democrats say that child and family policy is essential. But in the future, those in prison who are to be adapted to an honest life will only be allowed to meet their children at some point and with a glass plate between them. What's the point of that? You're wrong about a lot of questions. That is why it is difficult to coordinate with the Swedish Democrats on many issues.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-626	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that Beatrice Ask nevertheless felt it was a problem that she could not approach our policy to the desired extent. We will have to come back to that in discussions outside this debate. When it comes to the prison system, you pointed out a problem that many people are experiencing. Also in a previous debate, rehabilitation measures were called for, and we have read in the government budget that the number of relapses in crime is very high, especially among those who spend less time in prison. Part of the solution, then, is that we should have longer prison sentences in order to be able to conduct a better penitentiary. One problem with today's prison service is that one can maintain contacts with one's criminal networks, maintain drug trafficking and maintain a drug addiction. Although drug abuse has decreased, it is a problem in prisons. Part of the solution is to have greater control and supervision of the fact that those in prison undergo rehabilitation programmes, do not relapse into crime or continue their criminal course. Then we need more control and not less control.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-630	Madam President, I would like When the Swedish Democrats want to set up cameras in all cells for nothing to combat a drug situation that is not in the prisons, we want to ensure that people acquire education and the ability to manage a normal job. We are not against long sentences, but when you leave enforcement, you must be able to be hired and get a real job in order to build a sensible future. Instead of this kind of pseudo-measures, which I see you are pushing forward, we are investing in education and other measures. We agree on one thing, namely an announcement on the effectiveness of the prison system. It is about looking at what works and what is effective in terms of treatment. I absolutely believe that there is more to be done there. But I still resent the fact that you – mostly out of meanness, I would say – want to make sure that people are sighted at night and that they are not allowed to see their children. I think it is absolutely necessary for many inmates sometimes to meet loved ones, even during a longer execution and perhaps especially at the time, in order to have a hope and a motivation to take action to turn their lifestyle into something sensible that we would all have great pleasure in.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-634	Madam President, I would like I do not really feel that there would be such huge contradictions between our proposals and what others are proposing. Of course, we want more stringent restrictions on the things that have been raised, such as camera surveillance and other privileges that can be enjoyed as inmates. Of course, it should also be more related to how you behave in prison. Today, it is a little more automatic to have good access to things that give living conditions similar to those you had before going to prison, and then some of the effects of being in prison disappear. It should also be associated with a sense of punishment and a punishment to be in prison. Of course, all these sanctions should be applied under a certain amount of responsibility, and even with some kind of carrot in the end. It shouldn't just be whipping. But of course we go considerably further than the Moderates, and I can readily admit that we want to impose real penalties that feel for those who commit serious crimes in our society. I'm not ashamed of that at all. Beatrice Ask touched upon an announcement, and it has been called upon by the Moderates to make further announcements. It is clear that this is a promise that we welcome, because all the announcements made in the Committee on Justice are made on the terms of the Swedish Democrats. You are welcome to go home and study the proposals that we have in our criminal policy programme and adapt your policies to them in joint alliance movements. Then I promise that we will also contribute to further announcements.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-637	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the opportunity to open this debate. It was the only way for me to make participation possible. I think it is very important here to explain the government's view of the situation in relation to this important bill. The security situation in Afghanistan is worrying. We note that armed resistance in the form of the Taliban has taken the opportunity to advance its positions in connection with the closure of the ISAF. Nevertheless, the international community's commitment over the last 13 years has helped to stabilise the situation in Afghanistan. Several national elections have been held, a state apparatus has begun to be built up and security forces have been established. Over the years, Sweden has contributed to improving the situation in the four provinces that were part of the Swedish area of responsibility and has prepared the Afghan security forces to gradually take greater responsibility for security. By training and advising the Afghan security forces, the Swedish contingent has contributed to improving the Afghan forces' ability to initiate, plan, direct and conduct operations themselves. Afghan security forces have taken over responsibility for security throughout Afghanistan. But you need continued support. The Government's focus is therefore that Sweden will also contribute to the international community's efforts to support the development of the Afghan security forces' ability to manage security in Afghanistan after 2015. This support is clearly requested by the Afghans themselves. Continued engagement in support of Afghan security forces is also a prerequisite for progress in other areas where Sweden provides support to Afghanistan through assistance, not least in the areas of health, education and gender equality. However, the effort we have made has produced results over the years. In 2000, Afghanistan had one of the world's highest maternal mortality rates with 1,600 deaths per 100,000 births. Now the figure has dropped to more than 300 deaths per 100,000 births. Despite continued high numbers, this is one of the areas which, together with education, shows a steady positive development in the country. Furthermore, the number of midwives has increased tenfold to just over 4,600, and measurements suggest that 60 to 85 percent of the population now have access to health care in some form, although in many cases it is of low quality. However, the country's total need for maternal and reproductive health services is only 23 percent. Today, more than 8 million children are enrolled in school, of which nearly 40 percent are girls. In 2001, the number of children enrolled in school was about 900 000, of which very few were girls. This is an enormous improvement that I think we need to value. The number of female teachers has also increased. But especially in rural areas, the needs remain high. Continued success in these areas requires an improved security situation. I'll try to sum up the situation and the more formal position. NATO's RSM training and counselling operation is being conducted in Afghanistan at the invitation of the Afghan Government, and agreements have been established between NATO and Afghanistan. The UN also supports the establishment of the RSM through Security Council Resolution 2189. There is broad international support for the operation. I had the opportunity to meet President Ghani in connection with his visit to Sweden on 4 December, when he showed great gratitude for Sweden's long-standing military engagement and welcomed the Swedish focus to continue contributing to the RSM with an armed force of up to 50 people until the end of December 2016, i.e. the extension of the current contribution that we are now discussing. The Swedish unit will be approximately 30 people. It is now called FS 30 and is mainly based within Camp Marmal in Mazar-e Sharif. The core of the Swedish contribution is the advisors at the regional leadership staff and advisors to the 209th corps of the Afghan army in Mazar-e Sharif. Armed resistance, primarily the Taliban, has taken advantage of the situation arising from the closure of the ISAF operation and the limitation of the international military presence. This was, of course, expected. Our support is in demand by the Government of Afghanistan and needs to continue. Perseverance towards Afghanistan is important in our commitment. Perseverance is important in all contributing countries. At the NATO Foreign Ministers meeting on 1 December, allies and partner countries agreed to extend the regional presence of the RSM, when conditions on the ground are not yet ready to transition to any new phase. So we have a situation where continued international presence is needed to stabilise the situation. I outlined a few points earlier which show that the 14-year military engagement in Afghanistan has had an effect. One might wonder what situation the country would have been in without the effort being made. It is also a question of having such assessments and views with you when you look at whether this has been necessary and proper, and the government's view is that it has been necessary and correct, and we are now prepared to continue. There is no RSM end date pronounced. It is the development of the ground that must govern this. The focus is that Enhanced Enduring Partnership, EEP, will be a bridge between the RSM and NATO's bilateral partnership relationship with Afghanistan. The focus is that an in-depth information on EEP planning is presented at the Defence Minister's meeting in February 2016. Since September 2015, RSM partner countries have been invited to participate in the planning of the EEP. Sweden participates in this work. As I said, the security situation has worsened in scope and intensity. In 2015, the Taliban launched offensive operations in both southern and eastern Afghanistan and also in large parts of the northern region. A contributing factor to the escalation of violence is believed to be the fact that a larger number of foreign fighters have made their way to Afghanistan after being driven out of Afghanistan through a number of Pakistani military offensives. Information also indicates that ISIL and Daish have established themselves in certain regions. In northern Iraq in particular, government representatives have started to build up their own militias. Several of the different armed groups are involved in criminal activities and often fight among themselves for influence. The Afghan security forces carry out independent operations and focus on protecting population centres, in particular the major cities and the central transport routes, which means that the forces are not able to guarantee security throughout the country at the same time. This means that armed resistance has been able, above all, to advance in rural areas, while also carrying out coordinated attacks on provincial capitals. The UN reports a total of around 4,900 civilian victims in the first half of this year, which is the highest figure killed and injured since the UN began reporting on civilian victims in 2009. The number of victims has increased steadily since then. Also the number of injured and killed in the Afghan security forces has increased significantly in 2015 compared to previous years. The situation is, of course, not simple today. There are constant discussions between the participants in this coalition to see how they can contribute in various ways to stabilising the situation but, above all, to providing relevant support to the Afghan security forces. This is one of the situations we have to deal with. That is also the reason why we in the government believe that it is reasonable that we continue to stick to our contribution. I know what we've done is very much appreciated. I also know that the contribution we now have for 30 people compared to the way it was in the past is not so great. But I also know that it has an extremely important value for the Afghan authorities and the Afghan leadership. We have a long-term commitment in Afghanistan which it is reasonable to continue and to stand firm. We have a situation that needs to be handled there, and Sweden should be part of that work. This is the decision we make now. Then we will see what developments will take place in the future and what new positions may be taken in a later context.
i-AaArHQP6ZrBd9Q51YMYSCf	Madam President, I would like Since 2002, Sweden has participated in military operations in Afghanistan, first through the International Security Force ISAF and since 2014 in the NATO training and advisory operation RSM. I would like to stress that we Swedish democrats believe that the Swedish contribution has done an excellent job in Afghanistan. The Swedish soldiers have honored us all, for which we are very grateful. They have supported the Afghan national army and the Afghan police with exemplary and own losses, and have provided advisors to the Afghan national army. The Swedish war against Taliban has been waged with the aim of helping the country's population and creating democracy. As Swedish citizens, we can therefore be proud of our historic contribution to the country. However, Madam President, although the Swedish army and the rest of ISAF have carried out an exemplary effort, we nevertheless believe that a further limit must be set for Swedish engagement in Afghanistan. We believe that this border has been crossed and that it is now the duty of the Afghan peoples to take care of their own security together with other regional actors. We are seeing today that other countries in the immediate region have increased their involvement in Afghanistan, both economically and politically. That is, of course, a good thing, although one should perhaps be a little cautious about the real intentions of some of these countries for their involvement. Perhaps it is not primarily the fight for democracy and human rights that has made them more committed. I am thinking primarily of China. It is probably more about own economic and political gain than about the welfare of the Afghan peoples. We believe that Sweden should focus on our own defence of existence. After years of dismantling the Swedish defence, our primary objective is to build a defence capable of facing future threats in our neighbourhood, instead of a defence dimensioned for interventions in distant battlefields to the benefit of Sweden. In view of this, Madam President, we reject the proposal and call for the approval of reservation 1.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-667	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to support the Left Party's reservations 1 and 2. The background is simple. Once again, the decommissioning of Sweden's military presence in Afghanistan is postponed. The Left Party called for a rejection of the previous bill in the same case and still believes that it is not the right way to make a Swedish armed force available for the NATO-led ISAF operation, to which we were critical from the outset. The same is true of RSM. The experience of Afghanistan clearly shows that armed action does not lead to increased security for the population. Many of the positive results that the Minister for Defence listed in his speech are, of course, entirely due to the added value we have been able to contribute through civil and political action, not through participation in the military conflict. Sweden should work towards giving the UN direct responsibility for the further process, both civilian and military. It would facilitate a future peace process. In addition, to be a little bit cameral: If the Riksdag now says yes to the Swedish efforts in both Afghanistan and Iraq, which we support, this means that the entire grant 1:2 in the 2016 budget bill regarding the Swedish Armed Forces' efforts internationally is committed. This means that there is little room for manoeuvre for unforeseen events. Right now we are living in the shadow of the terrorist attacks in Paris on 13 November. To then spend over SEK 50 million on continued participation in NATO's training and counselling operation RSM is a very poor priority. Madam President, I would like The Afghanistan operation has cost both human life and money, about 10 billion low, and it will now be evaluated. But the Left Party believes that the evaluation decided by the government is not up to date. In practice, a politician who has been responsible for the operation will lead the evaluation. Instead, like the decision of the Social Democratic Party Congress on 4 and 7 April 2013, we want an independent Commission to produce a White Paper. At the S-Congress, a demand from the Social Democratic Party district of Stockholm for such a White Paper was adopted. The Congress decided to investigate Sweden's total military efforts as well as aid in Afghanistan and to make a White Paper. The Minister of Defence announced on 2 December 2014, just over a year ago, in an interview in Svenska Dagbladet that It would be interesting to hear what has changed since then. An additional assignment should therefore be given to the ongoing investigation that the Government has decided on. The investigation should be tasked with producing a White Paper outlining and evaluating the military operation as well as Sweden's support for police training, development aid and political and diplomatic work. Or as former Minister of Defence Thage G Peterson put it in the Gothenburg-Post on April 15, 2013: a constant shift in the motivation for the war; strengthening democracy, fighting corruption and drug production, strengthening the position of women. When none of this has been achieved, the Swedish Defence College has harshly declared that Sweden is in the war to qualify as a military partner to NATO and the US for future international military operations. ..................................................... In fact, many of the efforts presented by the Minister for Defence as improvements have been due, as I said, to the civilian efforts, not least to the work of the Swedish Afghanistan Committee. If you say that we have helped to stabilise the situation in Afghanistan, even if the security situation has deteriorated, I would like to say something. I really believe that the Swedish force has done as good work as possible on the basis of the conditions. However, the White Paper that the government now does not want to produce has been produced by the Swedish Afghanistan Committee. Their assessment is as follows: The armed conflict has worsened in scope and intensity. The Taliban have launched offensive operations. Several of the different armed groups are involved in criminal activities, and they often fight among themselves for influence. The UN has reported on the number of civilian victims in the first half of 2015. It's the biggest thing so far, since they started reporting. It's been increasing steadily ever since. Half of the country's territory has a threat level that is high or extremely high. My soul has not stabilized to any great extent. The Left Party has also, Madam President, highlighted the need for a Swedish action plan for Sweden's work on UN resolutions 1325 and 1820 in Afghanistan, which clarifies how Sweden can strengthen Afghanistan's women and ensure that they have an influence in the peace process. Sweden should therefore develop such a national action plan for the implementation of Resolution 1325 in Afghanistan. Even if we say no to the RSM, Sweden will still make a major contribution to a peace process. It is important to point out that our modern history is full of examples of peace actually being built by peaceful means, even after very long-standing and complex conflicts. Even if Parliament were to reject the bill, we would like to continue that work. Of course it will be complicated and take time. But there are no real options if we want to see Afghanistan in peace.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-679	Madam President, I would like That's two sides of the coin. One is the military effort. The second is the aid effort. On the aid side, Sweden has committed itself to a strategy involving democratic development, human rights and a focus on education, employment and the development of the so-called private sector. Here we enter with support 2014– 2019 of SEK 4.87 billion. To that can be added what we have said in connection with the donors' conference in Tokyo in 2012. It is an aid of 8 1⁄2 billion in 2015 – 2024. Afghanistan is the largest recipient of Swedish bilateral assistance. There is a very high level of ambition here. The realisation of this ambition has also been made possible by the fact that the security situation has been stabilised. The military operation has in many respects been a prerequisite for this. For many years there have also been efforts from the Swedish Afghanistan Committee, which has also produced good results. But you can't just ignore the military effort. It is about creating the basic conditions for aid to reach, to enable girls to go to school, to increase the proportion going to school and to improve health care. It's two sides of the same coin. Both are necessary. It is about seeing the whole and not just one part. That is our view of this effort. I believe that the military effort has been a prerequisite for the results on the humanitarian side.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-683	Madam President, I would like The Secretary of Defense says the security situation is stabilized. Actually, that's not true. Things are worse now than before. It's getting worse day by day. The UN reports that in the first half of 2015 it was the largest number of civilian victims since it started reporting in 2009. A provincial capital has been taken. As I said, the security situation is getting worse day by day. Drone attacks are a typical example. It is estimated that 90% are civilian victims. It is still rather unclear to what extent Sweden participates in these decisions. Possibly 10% of the victims are terrorists. But it's probably as soon as possible that for every terrorist you take out you create ten new ones. It's a huge civilian sacrifice that's required. This just doesn't work. It doesn't work according to plan. To the extent that there was a plan, I do not think it was that the security situation now, at the end of 2015, would be worse than it was in 2009 or 2002. This is not a fruitful way to go. Why, then, should we continue to throw away new money and risk human lives? Swedish soldiers are doing excellent work on the basis of the conditions. But why should we continue to risk their lives for a development that is going in the wrong direction?
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-686	Madam President, I would like The security situation has stabilised to the extent that during the years in which the operations have been carried out – it is in fact 14 years – opportunities have been created for aid interventions, including in the field of health and education and other things. It is about that it has been able to work and produce results. Then it is true that there have been recent deteriorations in the security situation, as Mr Ghani has also explained. Among other things, he did so in connection with his visit to Sweden. There are major challenges ahead. It is the deteriorating security situation that makes the coalition and those participating in it ready to continue. One argument that the military operation has not been a prerequisite for achieving these effects on the aid side does not seem to me to be a real argument. There are differences of opinion. With regard to the White Paper stories, I can only say that now a special investigator will go through the whole of the operation – it is about both the military and the civilian – and assess the impact this has had on the whole development of society in Afghanistan. In addition, FOI will carry out a specific analysis and report on the military operation in a detailed manner. So I think I have a completely different description of how the White Paper discussion is followed up. I am quite sure that we will have a proper analysis of this, which we will have to debate at a later stage. It is permitted to have different opinions and different assessments of this. But I can see that Afghanistan is saying: this is something that we think is important. We are dependent on international support, and we value what Sweden has done and intends to do in the future as well. It is a signal that, for me, weighs very heavily in our decision-making.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-691	Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, this White Paper is interesting. As far as the White Paper is concerned, as I understand it, the investigation is to be conducted by a person who, if I do not remember correctly, was Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Defence when dealing with these issues. I guess that's as far away from an independent investigation as you can get. And it wasn't your congress' decision. A White Paper is about something quite different. It is an independent Commission of experts. I think that has been done both in Norway and in Denmark. You made a statement that earlier pledges to make a so-called White Paper will be implemented. This is not a White Paper. It would be unreasonable to extend the concept in this way. The security situation is stabilising and it enables aid efforts, it is said. I do not know if Doctors without borders whose hospitals were bombed by the forces that we are now going to support agree with that. The mixture of civil and military operations is a risk factor, says the Swedish Afghanistan Committee, so one can say that reality in part speaks another language. Again, if the security situation stabilises and gradually improves, we could have a discussion. It is worse now than it has been since the UN began to measure the number of civilian deaths, which is a pretty good measure of it all. I think it is tragic that we should move forward on a path that has not so far been successful.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-695	Madam President, I would like Sweden has a long commitment in Afghanistan, partly military, partly, and indeed even longer, humanitarian. Sweden has been present in Afghanistan for many decades. The Afghan President Ashraf Ghani who visited Sweden barely two weeks ago thanked Sweden and especially the Swedish Afghanistan Committee for its work and for the fact that the Swedish Afghanistan Committee chose to remain when everyone else left Afghanistan because they considered the situation to be completely hopeless and unhelpful. I can only agree with this thanks and also express admiration for the fact that this important choice was dared. Afghanistan's development in recent years has improved. If we compare with the situation in Afghanistan during the Taliban empire in the early 00s and what would actually be the alternative to what we see emerging in Afghanistan today, it is nevertheless the case that, in this approximately 15 years' time, Afghanistan has become a better country. It's a country with more schools and more children – boys and especially girls – going to school. It is a country where more people can now receive treatment at health centres. It is a country where several elections have been held – not without problems or disputes about how the election results should be interpreted, but I have personally met Swedish military personnel who have fought all the way out to mountain villages to ensure the opening of polling stations and ensure that elections have been conducted and then fought all the way back from there to ensure that the votes will arrive at the count of votes. It has not been simple tasks that Swedish and other personnel from other countries have done, but it has important tasks, Madam President. Our mission is based on a UN mandate. As the Minister for Defence mentioned earlier here, Sweden is now entering a ten-year development effort with a Swedish aid that makes Afghanistan by far the largest partner country in Swedish development cooperation. It is a good continuation of the great military effort we have made in the past to continue to build the country and build a better future for people in Afghanistan. In order to build a new and better Afghanistan, security is required. This is an increasing responsibility for the Afghans themselves and the Afghan police and the military, and that is how it should and must be. Our Swedish contribution to the military today focuses on training and advice for these security forces. We have scaled down our military operation, but we have stepped up an already ambitious humanitarian effort to become the largest Swedish humanitarian operation over the next ten years. With this, Madam President, I would like to call for the proposal of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence to be approved in the report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy1.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-702	Madam President, I would like I think we agree quite touchingly that the military presence has been necessary for Afghanistan, and, as I said in my speech, the Swedish military presence has made fantastic efforts. I also think it is important that we continue to be willing to contribute to Afghanistan for the humanitarian situation and so on. My question to Kenneth G. Forslund is, if not also the Social Democrats eventually see that there is a limit to the Swedish military contribution. Will this continue year after year? Unfortunately, we are seeing a decline in the security policy situation in Afghanistan. Will the Social Democrats eventually put their foot down and say that now perhaps we need to concentrate and use our limited resources for other efforts? That is indeed what Stig Henriksson from the Left Party said: This eats up a lot of the defence grant that we have for international efforts. There may be a need for us to have a place in the future to prioritise other things, because we cannot save the whole world. We can't be everywhere. Even if we make significant efforts where we are, we cannot be everywhere in the world. Somewhere there has to be a limit. We from the Swedish Democrats believe that this border has been crossed, but when do the Social Democrats see such a border, if one sees it at all?
i-JhKRLEtCCDsnLr52AgCoEX	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Björn Söder, for the questions. Firstly, with regard to the security situation and its development, we are currently seeing a decline, in practice a deterioration in the security situation. That's right. That's how you have to judge it. At the same time, many were very concerned about how the security situation would develop when the major international military efforts were severely reduced. Many predicted that it would in practice lead to Afghanistan imploding as a society and as a country, that it would break out a total and complete chaos and a new Taliban empire in the very worst case or possibly an unholy alliance between the legitimate regime and the Taliban, which in particular would probably have been very much over the situation of women. What we are seeing now is better than the worst fears. We can see that. Nevertheless, this is a worrying development that needs to be taken seriously. That is why it is important that we continue to support the Afghan security forces with training and advice in order for them to be better able to do their job, which, however, they are able to do relatively well compared to the gloomiest scenarios. When is the exact limit for when it is time to withdraw? I do not want to point to such an exact limit today. My hope and what I believe is, of course, that Afghanistan will be able to develop so that we come to a point where we see that the Afghan military and police can now do this on their own. Finally, Madam President, Sweden is not everywhere and cannot be everywhere. I just want to underline that.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-711	Madam President, I would like As I said, the Swedish effort has been very important, but we are seeing a decline in the security situation in Afghanistan. Perhaps we should take a look and see that there are other ways of improving the situation there. It may have reached the end of the road when it comes to the effort in which one is now involved. Perhaps it is in the form of an increased UN representation on the ground through the UN, through regional actors and other neighbouring countries, who are also concerned about the developments we are seeing in Afghanistan that this can help to improve the situation. All I see is the danger that this is going to roll year after year. Sure, it's not a huge amount of money it's all about for Sweden. That's about 50 million kronor for this bet, isn't it? Nevertheless, it is money that is draining the already strained budget, the appropriations for international efforts, and which is now actually zeroing in on that account. There may be other situations in 2016 that we must prioritise. We are already seeing a defence force on its knees after decades of dismantling – we cannot even defend our own territory fully enough. Therefore, we believe that the government should provide additional funds to the Swedish Armed Forces and also eventually include it in the budget so that these efforts do not adversely affect the Swedish Armed Forces. Then there is a positive aspect to participating in international efforts, including in Afghanistan. The Swedish Armed Forces are given the skills to take home that may be useful here at home, and you can try different things even in this kind of advice. However, we believe that we have reached the end of the Swedish military operation in Afghanistan and that we should re-prioritise it to make more humanitarian efforts through other organisations.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-714	Madam President, I would like Of course, we can have, and obviously have, a different view of how long we should remain and whether it is effective and meaningful to remain. I believe that we are still doing and can be useful. Somewhere, of course, I hope that the situation in Afghanistan and the ability of the Afghan security forces will be given such a capacity that they will be able to carry out the task entirely on their own. In fact, the very form of support we are in now has not been going on for so long. It is important to keep apart what we did when we had considerably more Swedish staff in place and what we are doing now. These are two different types of missions and two different ways of acting. This support and training effort, in its current form, has been going on for a relatively short time, one should remember. Then it is justified to consider, as Björn Söder does, whether there are other forms that would be more effective and if we have reached the end of the road. We have different views there, I can say, and there is nothing wrong with that. When it comes to the Swedish Armed Forces going on their knees, the description must stand for Björn Söder. I note that there are six parties in the Swedish Parliament that have now made a long-term defence decision where the Swedish Armed Forces will receive more money, more equipment and more staff in the future. I think this bodes well for Swedish security.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-717	Madam President, I would like Sweden's engagement in Afghanistan is broad and long-term. If we add together the military contributions, our development aid and our humanitarian efforts, our total support is the greatest commitment Sweden has ever made to another country. Since the first time I visited Afghanistan, which was 2007, I have seen with my own eyes how the country has developed. Access to health care has improved, and most girls are now allowed to go to school. There is also the development of infrastructure – railways and roads – and the development of business. However, the humanitarian situation remains difficult, especially for girls and women. Despite rich natural resources, Afghanistan is a very poor country, and it is still plagued and characterised by conflict, corruption and poorly functioning institutions. Nevertheless, I would like to see Afghanistan now entering a new phase. There is a new president on site, Ashraf Ghani, who visited Stockholm just two weeks ago. A government of unity has been formed very slowly and slowly. It has been slow and slow, but remember that this is the first time in a very long time that a transition of power between two presidents has been peaceful! Nevertheless, the country faces major challenges, both security and economic, and the new government will need support to meet the challenges. It was valuable that President Ghani came to Sweden. The visit further strengthens the many years of cooperation between Sweden and Afghanistan. It was an opportunity to exchange both what Afghanistan expects of us and what we expect of Afghanistan. It is quite clear that more help and support is needed for the security, reconstruction and development of the country. A central part of this cooperation is that Sweden continues to provide military advisors to the Afghan army in broad political agreement and following the invitation of the Afghan Government. It is about strengthening the means of combating, for example, the Taliban and the repression that follows in their footsteps. This operation is a direct successor to ISAF, the NATO-led operation in which Sweden participated from 2002 onwards and where the main focus was on contributing to increased security in the northern parts of Afghanistan. At the same time, our support should remain broader than the security-enhancing efforts. For decades, Sweden has contributed with help to Afghanistan, and over the years, thousands – not to say tens of thousands – of Swedes have committed themselves to strengthening peace and development in the country. The Swedish Afghanistan Committee, which the President mentioned and which has been mentioned in the speaker's chair earlier today, has been in place for over 30 years. Since 2002, we have a diplomatic presence. Afghanistan is the country that receives the most aid, and until 2019 we will support the country's reconstruction with almost SEK 5 billion. One particular focus of our development cooperation is to improve the situation for women and children. The needs are great, and the Afghans themselves list security, the economy and corruption as the main difficulties for the country. That is why we must continue to cooperate and provide support, and we must make demands. With the closure of ISAF, the security situation has deteriorated. I believe that it can be seen as a direct consequence of the withdrawal of troops and that those who are opposed to these developments have taken the opportunity to try again to throw the country into instability. In 2015, the security situation has deteriorated. There have been attacks in both the southern and eastern parts of the country and, not least, in the centre of Kabul in recent months. The deteriorating security situation shows that military support is still needed. It would be devastating at this point to leave Afghanistan. The Afghan security forces need continued support, and that is what the RSM training and counselling operation is all about. What we are going to decide, Madam President, is whether the Riksdag is going to allow a Swedish armed force of up to 50 people to continue to participate in the educational and advisory work – a mandate that is proposed to extend until the end of 2016. The mandate also includes an opportunity for reinforcement and evacuation. Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal that this be allowed to continue. I would like to conclude by reminding you that the mission is not without risks. We should always be aware of this when we make this kind of decision in the Swedish Parliament. I would also like to thank all the Swedish women and men who have served and served in the service of peace.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-727	Madam President, I would like I understood it as Karin Enström saying that this is the greatest military and civil commitment Sweden has ever had. It made me think a little bit about the language. For it has become so – and I sin there myself – that It refers to solidarity clauses involving the conduct of war. Even the fine word is now the opposite, namely, religious reactionary groups that are said to be radicalized. As an old radical, I find it a bit difficult. Is it really better now? We see an increase in the number of deaths and violence against women, according to the Afghan Independent Commission on Human Rights. Opium crops are breaking record; 88 percent of global opium production comes from Afghanistan, as well as 77 percent of global heroin production. It is a bit interesting, because everyone is involved in this – warlords, Taliban and authorities, that is, the authorities we are trying to build. The humanitarian situation is getting worse. We notice a weak recollection of it in Sweden through all the unaccompanied mainly boys from Afghanistan. Although they come closest through Pakistan and Iran, this does not suggest that things are getting better. We bomb civilians and hospitals. Yeah, we're not exactly, but we're in. According to Human Rights Watch, Afghan security forces are committing serious violations of human rights. The Afghan police, which we are trying to help and educate, are grossly violating human rights. Executions without trial occur. This happens after 14 years of commitment. With what will this end and when?
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-731	Madam President, I would like It was very conscious that I began my speech by describing how much both the commitment and the commitment have been and are for the country of Afghanistan. It seems irresponsible to me that, because we have not been able to create a perfect country together, we should therefore withdraw and stop doing what we are doing. Of course, we're going to examine ourselves. We're going to evaluate the stakes. But this is an example of how difficult it is to try to bring peace, stability and development to a country that has been marked by war and conflict for so many decades. It is a country of people who have been plagued by war and poverty for more than three decades. Then my answer will not be the same as that of the Left Party, that is, to leave the country and leave it to its fate. No, just the opposite! We shall continue to support the country in the way we think is most effective. It is a combination of continuing to support the security sector, that is, the armed forces, the armed forces and the police, supporting institutional reforms, supporting humanitarian aid and, at the same time, calling for a government that is not without conflict and has a great deal of problems. For me, it is not a question of using the Left Party solution but rather of continuing along the path that has been taken. We knew already before that there would probably be a decline in the security situation during the transition from ISAF with troop withdrawals to the new regime we now have with the RSM. I would like to hear what the Left Party's alternative would be.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-736	Madam President, I would like What is irresponsible and which of us is irresponsible, who wants to continue on a path that is going in the wrong direction, can really be discussed. No one has expected or expected the perfect country to be created. But when things go the wrong way, you should have the courage to question whether to continue. The Left Party has definitely never said that we should stop giving aid to the people of Afghanistan, that we should withdraw and sit in our chambers. On the other hand, a radical redistribution would be needed. Pending the White Paper that will probably never happen, the Swedish AFGHANISTAN Committee has produced a White Paper. It shows the proportions between military and civilian support. It's not an exact science. Subject to the fact that we probably don't get any better figures, the total Swedish contribution – all included – is estimated at 28.2 billion. Civil aid is estimated at 6.9 billion. There's a big discrepancy between the military and the civilian. It is indeed time to try to be the heroes of the retreat by saying: No, we wanted well, but it was wrong. It is time to cancel the operation, and preferably do so with a decision today or by tomorrow at the latest.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-740	Madam President, I would like Clearly, we have different opinions about what is effective. For me and my party, and when we were responsible in the alliance government, it has been clear that it is not possible to have just one of the components. It has been said before, and I will say it again, that without security there can be no development. There will also be no security without development. However, abandoning Afghanistan today and saying that they can cope with the construction of police and armed forces on their own is irresponsible. I don't hear an alternative from the Left Party. Our commitment should be long-term and should cover all sectors. It has also been clear in the years I have met with police officers, soldiers, managers, MEPs and most recently the President that the support, which is also about supporting ANDSF, is welcome– they are grateful.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-742	Madam President, I would like It is important that the international community, including Sweden, continues to support and assist the Afghan Government. The Green Party considered it right to send Swedish troops with UN mandates to Afghanistan from 2001 to 2002 because the security situation initially required a military operation. However, we soon saw that there was no military solution to the conflict. It was an insight that was later shared by both the United Nations and the United States. Therefore, in 2010 the Green Party called for a clear exit strategy for Afghanistan. It was a strategy that also became a reality in 2014 with ISAF's withdrawal and phasing-in of the RSM, which we are discussing an extension of today. Unfortunately, we can see that developments on the ground in Afghanistan have not moved in the direction we would like to see. Therefore, it is important to continue our efforts and to provide support and advice so that the country's security forces strengthen their ability to deal independently in the long term with the security of the country. Madam President, I would like The Afghan people have suffered great hardships for decades of war. It is one of the world's poorest countries. Despite the massive international military presence with over 100 000 soldiers in place to ensure the security of the country, Afghanistan is still a very poor and dangerous country to live in. The wars in Libya, Iraq and Afghanistan are three examples of how not to resolve conflicts by fighting for peace. Madam President, I would like That is why it is so important that the Swedish efforts in Afghanistan are long-term and that they are political, diplomatic, police, military, aid-oriented and that they include both humanitarian aid and development cooperation. Afghanistan is one of the largest recipients of Swedish aid. Sweden has announced aid of up to SEK 8.5 billion for the period 2015–2024. A significant part of our assistance focuses on the most vulnerable, that is, women and children. It is gratifying that the Swedish Government has now signed a cooperation agreement on aid. This happened when Minister for Development Isabella Lövin met President Ghani during his visit to Sweden at the beginning of the month. This is the first time that Sweden has signed such an agreement with Afghanistan. The agreement confirms Swedish aid commitments and deepens the countries' relations. That's good. The light gleams in the development have largely been provided by the Swedish Afghanistan Committee. The fact that millions of Afghan girls and boys have been given schooling is a great success that really requires attention. The Swedish Afghanistan Committee is making a significant contribution, which has been able to operate during the first Russian occupation for 30 years, then civil war and then during the Taliban rule. Sweden's good reputation in Afghanistan depends very much on the work of the Afghanistan Committee for a long time. For example, a quarter of schools in Afghanistan have been built up by the Committee. Madam President, I would like I would like to highlight UN Resolution 1325, which aims at concrete measures for women and girls in conflict. With the increasing participation of Swedish women and men in peace-keeping operations, the soldiers meet women who have been subjected to sexual violence. In order to be able to protect and support women who have been subjected in this way in a good and legally secure way, a solid education and preparation as well as knowledge of women's lack of power, influence, freedom of movement and sexual and reproductive health are required. Being able to participate on an equal footing with citizens of a society is a question of democracy. Significant resources must therefore be invested in the need for protection and support that women and girls have during a conflict, when women are often forced to take over men's duties, and after a conflict, when civil society needs to be rebuilt. Substantial resources must also be devoted to training on gender issues for those serving abroad in conflicts. Women's crucial tasks and role in the peace process and crisis management cannot be emphasised enough. It is therefore important that Sweden acts nationally and internationally to improve the work of the UN Resolution on Women, Peace and Security – Resolution 1325 – and the UN Resolution on Sexual Violence in Conflict – Resolution 1820. Despite the fact that UN Resolution 1325 has been in use for several years, the lack of women in peace-promoting and conflict-solving work is evident. The proportion of women in peace-building efforts has increased slightly, but there are too few women in decision-making positions. It's about the whole community. Here Sweden needs to make a contribution. Madam President, I would like With this, I call for the committee's request to be granted in response to the Government's proposal for Swedish participation in NATO's RSM training and advisory mission in Afghanistan.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-755	Madam President, I would like It is mostly out of personal curiosity that I would like to ask two questions. I noted that the Green Party's Party Executive already in 2010 wanted all troops to be withdrawn by 2014. Now it's the end of 2015. What best-before-date did this decision have? Bodil Ceballos, who was then a foreign policy spokesperson, said in relation to the RSM that a clear UN mandate was very important. Does Pernilla Stålhammar and the Green Party believe that there is a clear UN mandate for RSM?
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-758	Madam President, I would like The vision that we have is, of course, to be able to withdraw the military presence. However, we have also followed developments on the ground in Afghanistan and developments in the country and have seen that progress has not been made in the way it would have wished. However, we have pushed for an exit strategy and with it also got to the RSM. ISAF has been phased out, and RSM has instead come into existence. We believe that it is still important to have a presence on the ground to support the Afghan security organisation.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-761	Madam President, I would like Then there was the question of a clear UN mandate. As far as I understand it, the RSM lacks this, unlike ISAF. There is no mandate from the UN Security Council. Then I wonder if you have changed your position that a clear UN mandate for this type of action is no longer so important. In that case, it is a little worrying, I might think, to put it a little cautiously.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-762	Madam President, I would like It is always important to have a mandate in international law, Stig Henriksson. We believe that this is fulfilled in this case.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-763	Madam President, I would like The road to peace and democracy is long for those of us who can stand by. How long, then, must the road be experienced for those who live in Afghanistan, live on the run in the country or have fled the country? As a nation, we have a long-term responsibility and a comprehensive commitment to participate actively in the work of supporting and assisting the Afghan Government in its quest for a stable and secure society. Afghanistan still needs international assistance and our military support for the development of Afghan security forces' capabilities and its institutions to manage national security. We in the Center Party are concerned that Sweden, which has a strong and historic commitment to Afghanistan through diplomatic presence, comprehensive assistance, the ISAF operation and the current RSM operation, will continue to provide long-term support. After more than three decades of conflict, we cannot afford to think short-term. It is about creating faith in the future in a very difficult situation. We know that Afghans belong to the largest group of asylum seekers to Sweden this year. We know that many Afghans choose to flee because of the security situation in their home country, but also because the conditions for those who have fled to Iran, for example, have deteriorated significantly. Afghanistan has been plagued by war and oppression for more than three decades. The fragile reconstruction process in the country, to say the least, has a major impact on the rest of the world, including us here in Sweden. The ISAF forces left Afghanistan last year, and the security situation remains a major challenge. The country's economy is under pressure and deteriorating. The Taliban have launched offensive operations and made progress in the autumn. Daish has also established itself in certain provinces. The advisory action has a clear mandate in international law and includes a non-combatant effort to provide training and advice. The fact that 42 countries are working with more than 13 000 people on the ground demonstrates the broad and strong commitment that exists for the country and the region. Madam President, I would like This is an operation with different phases, in which the local conditions on the ground can determine the exact time when the proposed extended operation in the northern country will be completed and the next phase can begin. It is good that previous efforts are evaluated and analysed in order to manage and learn from experience for any future assignments. Our civilian efforts have become increasingly important as responsibility for security has been handed over to the Afghan authorities. The Center Party therefore welcomes Sweden's strengthening of civil engagement in Afghanistan, which focuses on the situation of women and girls. Afghanistan receives almost 900 million SEK in Swedish aid each year and is thus Sweden's largest aid country. Aid will help create jobs, have more children in school, strengthen women's rights, combat corruption and strengthen democratic institutions. Our Swedish strategy to support Afghanistan's own ability, local ownership, rural development, education and employment is important in a country that currently has large revenues from drug trafficking. Strengthening the private sector and economic integration are fundamental prerequisites for a more stable situation in the long term. The economic consequence of extending this effort in Afghanistan and also in Iraq will be that the currently budgeted funds available for next year's activities will in practice be used up. Given the changing security situation in the outside world, further efforts may be needed internationally with Swedish military assistance. The government must therefore take responsibility for and ensure that there are financial means available for any new efforts, so that granted efforts do not take resources from our national defence and undermine our national defence capabilities. Now we are in this Chamber, and we are facing a choice. We can choose to reject this proposal or to vote in favour of the committee's proposal. Both choices have consequences. The position of the Center Party is clear. We will continue and pursue our efforts in a responsible and sustainable manner. We owe this to the Afghan population, our Swedish troops and other nations that have contributed and contribute to greater security in Afghanistan. We also owe it to all those who have already made personal sacrifices for peace and security in the country. Madam President, I would like I support the committee's proposal.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-783	Madam President, I would like As several previous speakers have mentioned, the ISAF operation, the assistance force in Afghanistan, has been completed for some years now. But one should be aware that this effort was burdened with a number of misconceptions over the decade it was going on. As far as I am concerned, I suspect that the civilian operations to be launched in parallel with the military operation in Afghanistan were too small and too late. The international community also failed to unite all the regional stakeholders in this area. Neighboring countries to Afghanistan– India, Pakistan, China, Uzbekistan, Iran and so on– all continued to play the game after their own private agendas. It was a failure of international politics. At the same time, one might wonder whether it was ever realistic that in one of the world's most divided countries – divided geographically, ethnically and religiously – it was possible to introduce or implement as strong a central government as was the case. But it is important to stress that there were probably no military failures that marked the ISAF operation. Swedish staff did everything they could. I share the view expressed by the Minister for Defence here in the speaker's chair: their contribution also meant that they made a difference. Some Swedish soldiers have paid the ultimate price during this effort. It's Jesper, it's Tomas, it's Johan, it's Gunnar and it's Kenneth. There are also two local interpreters employed by Sweden. Against this background, Madam President, I think it is important that Sweden now conducts an investigation into this long and both financial and humanitarianly costly effort. I look forward to the conclusions to come. Stig Henriksson emphasises that it is the civilian efforts, the development of aid, that have made it possible to develop healthcare in the country, that more girls can go to school and so on. Like the Minister for Defence, I believe that this structure would not have been possible in a perhaps far worse security situation than is currently the case in Afghanistan. Madam President, I would like I do not cease to be surprised at the fact that the Swedish Democrats have been against the Swedish presence in Afghanistan all these years. I thought it was obvious to the Swedish Democrats that there is a connection between the security situation in different parts of our world and the migratory pressure that Sweden is also exposed to. When the international presence in Afghanistan decreased by nearly 90% in 2013, it was natural for us to have a worse security situation throughout the country. But sooner or later, every country that has been the subject of international peace-promoting efforts must try to stand on its own feet. That is what we are currently going through. Sweden is no longer fighting in Afghanistan. Sweden supports. And, Madam President, it is my view that if Afghanistan is to stand on its own feet and eventually move forward, Swedish support, along with that of all the other countries that were part of ISAF, remains important for the country's development. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-794	Madam President, I would like I was thinking I'd calm down for a while, but if you're apostrophated, it's like a button finger. Allan Widman says that he welcomes the investigation that will evaluate Sweden's efforts. I would just like to ask Allan Widman, who I think is well-intentioned and wise in such matters: is it really appropriate to examine himself in practice, that is to say that one who is responsible for some of the decisions is the one who makes the investigation? In some contexts, it is usually said that you should not put the goat as the herb garden master. Maybe this is one of those cases, or what does Allan Widman say? Then there is this with civil aid and its preconditions. I note that the figures I have show that the military commitment as it is called – that is a fine word – is 28.2 billion versus Sweden's aid of 6.9 billion. Those proportions can really be discussed. But perhaps one is a prerequisite for the other, on which Allan Widman is involved. I have looked at what the relief organisations themselves think. After all, they should reasonably have preference for interpretation. According to the Asia Times, many independent relief organisations distance themselves from the US-led coalition and instead try to shape local security agreements. Doctors Without G ränser's representative points out that when the border between soldiers and aid workers becomes blurred, it becomes difficult. It is not possible to fight Taliban in the morning and build schools in the afternoon. War doesn't work that way. The attitude and experience of the Swedish Afghanistan Committee is clear: Collaboration with the military in Afghanistan has put its employees at great risk. Therefore, there is probably reason to question the obviousness with which it is said that when we build security with military presence, it benefits the work of aid organisations. That is not their opinion.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-803	Madam President, I would like With regard to the selection of investigators, I can only say after having had the privilege of serving for a number of years with Tone Tingsgård in the Committee on Defence that as an investigator she has all the characteristics in terms of insight, knowledge and integrity required for the mission. Nevertheless, I myself, if I had been Minister of Defence, might have chosen someone more outsider in this context, precisely to strengthen confidence in the conclusions to come out of the investigation. Stig Henriksson points to an important problem throughout the international presence in Afghanistan, namely the imbalance between military and civilian development efforts. I believe, Madam President, that for every dollar spent on the civilian, the military effort was invested in SEK 7 – as an average. However, Sweden did better and tried to balance it continuously. In the best years, I think we were closer to fifty-fifty, that is, as much on the civilian side as on the military. But it is obvious that it was too late and too little. What about security and development now? Yes, everyone agreed that in Afghanistan there could be no development without security. Without security, there would be no development either. My belief is that soldiers should not be close to aid workers. There should be clear boundaries. However, if ISAF had not existed in all these years, it is my assessment, Madam President, that the security situation would have been infinitely worse than we are seeing today. It would also seriously hamper the progress that has been made in terms of better welfare.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-809	Madam President, I would like Of course, I have not discussed the personal morals or qualifications of Tone Tingsgård, but the principle that we do not investigate ourselves. I am pleased that Allan Widman agrees to some extent with this. Then there is the problem of the security situation. Just take the drone attacks, where 90% of the victims are civilians. Then I don't just think about airbombing hospitals like Ljugar e Without G ränser powering but all drone attacks. 90% of victims are considered civilians. For every terrorist you exterminate, it's probably pretty clear that you're getting ten new ones. It cannot be a very effective method of improving the security situation.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-812	Madam President, I would like I don't know where Stig Henriksson gets his statistics. But a common thread, excuse the expression, through Stig Henriksson's speeches here today has been that he has strongly criticised everything that the international presence has done in Afghanistan and very little has stayed in the sufferings of the civilian population that the Taliban and now also Daish are inflicting on the country. I would have liked Stig Henriksson to have talked about the other side of the coin from time to time. With regard to the relationship between security and aid, I think that perhaps we should try to be a little more concrete. There are links in Afghanistan, originally constructed by the Soviets during the occupation of the 1980s, which allow for connections between large central cities. Had these relations not been guarded by ISAF for more than a decade, I do not think that much of the development work that has taken place could have been carried out. I hope that Stig Henriksson will also take this into account.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-814	Madam President, I would like This afternoon, we are continuing to debate Swedish participation in NATO's training and advisory mission in Afghanistan. There are 50 people from Sweden who participate there. If we focus on this effort, I would like to take this opportunity to mention that since the 1950s we have sent out over 100 000 Swedish soldiers in various types of foreign forces. They have all been sent here from the Riksdag. The largest number of soldiers was made in Cyprus. There were 28 000 Swedes between 1964 and 1993. The second largest was in Bosnia from 1993 to 1999, when more than 10 000 Swedish soldiers participated. In Gaza it was also in the order of 1956- 1967. The Afghanistan operation comes at roughly the same levels. There are about 9 500 soldiers who have served in Afghanistan. I would like to take this opportunity to express my thanks to all of you who have made this effort, and not only to you, if you listen to the debate, but also to your relatives. We've made decisions, but you've done it. We are very grateful for the task you have done. I would also like to mention in particular the names of the five people who have been killed in the Afghanistan operation. It is Kenneth Wallin, Gunnar Andersson, Johan Palmlöv, Tomas Bergqvist and Jesper Lindblom. The Swedish effort has been under 14 years. It has now turned into an educational effort. As several speakers have said before, Sweden has made a difference. I had the privilege of visiting Afghanistan and the Swedish operation in 2011. I could see with my own eyes the big stakes, listen to the stories and be out in the villages and visit. Not least, it was a fantastic experience to be in a girls' school in a country that only a decade ago had only 3 percent girls who were allowed to attend school. It's not perfect today. According to UNICEF, that is currently 39%. But it's much better. This is an example of how we have been able to do something together. Civil aid but also security work goes hand in hand. That is why we have decided to remain in Afghanistan. It's a difficult situation. We're not going to whitemen. There are still enormous challenges for a country that has been in crisis, conflict and war for 30 years more or less all the time. Our task now is to remain. It is also important, as has been pointed out, that the effort made by ISAF over the 14 years is investigated and evaluated so that we can get facts about what has been done, what has worked well and what can be improved for future efforts. In these brief words, I support the committee's proposal in the report as a whole and reject the motions.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-823	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by thanking everyone who has made an amazing contribution in Afghanistan and in many other places. We can be proud of all the efforts made. Having said that, I would like to underline what the Secretary of Defense said here before. Without the military presence, it is in many cases completely impossible to create the conditions for security for the civilian population. Unfortunately, that is the case. I myself have been abroad a number of times. I want to say that I know that's the case. The question is where the limit is reached when it becomes more or less necessary to close one and raise the other. We're there now, we think. We are talking about an increase in the number of civilian victims. But it is also the case that the Afghan security forces' offensive has meant that they have come into battle considerably more. As a result, there has also been an increase in civilian victims. The fact that the Taliban are ruthlessly harvesting victims is the major problem. Then, of course, mistakes are also made from the other side, not least by the Afghan security forces. With stronger offensives, there will also be an increase in the number of civilian victims. Unfortunately, it is often the civilian population who suffers the most in all wars. In 2002 – 2015 we have taken about 10 – 15 billion in the areas covered by Category 6. That's a lot of money. Then we have not taken into account the equipment that is worn, replaced and consumed. We have a number of dead and quite a few injured in the line of duty. Unfortunately, that is the case. It is a high price that many have paid for this. In 2009, ISAF changed its strategy from peacekeeping, one might say, to an armed operation. The Netherlands and Canada withdrew then, as is well known, and also France. In 2010 it was the bourgeois parties with S and MP who said: No fighting tasks after 2014. That's when it was. You can't always predict everything exactly. It's okay to go back and say, "That's not what happened." My point is not quite that. That assessment was made at the time. We want a thorough evaluation and a more thorough look: what changed your mind? It seems that there is one going on. That's good. We want to make such an evaluation. Since 2014, it is the Afghan security forces that are fully responsible for the security of the whole of Afghanistan. Has a change been made there? Are they not fully responsible for this? Where's that analysis? We think it is time to finish this part. Many mix this with counseling. It is not just a matter of advice, but it can also be a matter of fighting. Don't forget it! You're talking about counseling without weapons. But it's not a question of that. It is clear that this can be tactical advice. Then what is it? Well, you talk about how they kill the most and get the most success in fighting someone. Then you'll take part in the battle. Let's not mix it away. It may well enter such a phase. SD says no to continued participation, but it takes quite a long time to phase this out. It may take four to six months, and then we'll be in the middle of 2016. It takes time to phase out, hand over and transport home. Of course, we want to invest in continued strong support for the civilian elements. Let me say that, of course, we support operations that are under the UN flag, so that you do not think that we are saying no to all of this. We are in favour of participation, but it should be UN-led. Allan Widman says that SD has not been aware of the security policy situation. It is the same Allan Widman who during the last parliamentary term did the dismantling after the analysis that there was peace and security in the immediate area and went in the lead to disarm the Swedish defence. Was he aware of the security situation? Was the Alliance aware of that? Definitely not. It was a party that resisted, and it was the Swedish Democrats.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-835	Madam President, I would like I'm going to correct Roger Richtoff on one point. He thinks it's obvious that it should be UN-led. However, the RSM even lacks a mandate from the UN Security Council, so it cannot in any sense be considered UN-led. How's Afghanistan doing? In 2007, the United States estimated that there were 10,000 Taliban there. Now it is estimated that there are 60 000. In other words, things are not going very well. The UN has estimated that the Taliban now have the greatest influence in the country since they were overthrown in 2001. I would like to say to Allan Widman that it is a terrible development that we are moving in this direction. The Taliban are not among the radicals I call them; they are extremely conservative and reactionary religious forces who want to overthrow the country back to what Christendom calls the Middle Ages. During that time, however, Islam was a fairly prosperous and tolerant society. That's how things can change. Of course, I should not have to repeat this, but I am still taking this opportunity.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-838	Madam President, I would like I didn't hear any question but more that Henriksson wanted to talk a little.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-839	Madam President, I would like If you can't handle better malice than that, Roger Richtoff, I think I can take them. You said you wanted it to be UN-led, but there's no UN mandate for the RSM operation. I just wanted to point that out, in case you misunderstood.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-841	Madam President, I would like No, I didn't get anything wrong. If it's going to be an operation, it's going to be under the leadership of the United Nations. Then maybe we'll change our minds. But at the moment it is not, and so we reserve our reservations and say no to this.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-842	Madam President, I would like When the Swedish Democrats were just elected to the Swedish Parliament, it was an interview with Jimmie Åkesson in Agenda. At that time the message of the importance of Sweden reducing its reception of refugees was paired with the fact that Sweden, for Gud's sake, had to go home from Afghanistan. It has always seemed contradictory to me, because if we are not prepared to take responsibility for peace and security internationally with others, it is likely to lead to an increase in migratory flows – not only from Afghanistan but from many other sources. My question is whether the Swedish Democrats have paid attention to this connection and possibly thought about it. It is interesting to hear Roger Richtoff say that the Swedish Democrats are happy to support Swedish efforts under the UN flag. Later today we will be debating an operation in Iraq which, as far as I know, is not under the UN flag. However, if I read the report correctly, it seems that the Swedish Democrats intend to support this proposal. What's the connection?
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-846	Madam President, I would like I am happy to respond to that when we debate that effort. With regard to the flow of refugees, we must ask ourselves whether it has improved after eight years with the Alliance's foreign policy and security policy. Is today's flow of refugees proof that you have succeeded? Is it cool and good? Or has your policy actually increased the flow of refugees? Reality suggests the latter. Our policy had considerably reduced this. After all, we were constantly investing in the Swedish defence while you wanted to invest in a defence that starts somewhere else. Now you have turned, and the Swedish defence will start in Sweden. We need to build up Swedish defence based on many aspects of security policy. When we have our own defence, we can also help to maintain security policy stability in our part of Europe. Of course, we will also participate in foreign missions if they are led by the UN.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-849	Madam President, I would like I get a little confused when Roger Richtoff tries to lead in evidence that if we had just built up the defence of Sweden here at home and created a national dimension of the Swedish defence, migration to Sweden would have become less. That is an incomprehensible statement for me. But Roger Richtoff has another line. My simple point is that there is a connection between the security situation in our world and perhaps especially now in Afghanistan on the one hand and the pressure on refugees on Europe and Sweden on the other. With a drastic change in the security situation in Afghanistan – unfortunately, Stig Henriksson – it is probably no coincidence that a large number of refugees come from there. I wonder if the Swedish democrats have the ability to see these connections and how they would react to them. Roger Richtoff is pushing the question of UN-led efforts and support from the Swedish Democrats to the next debate, and we can of course take it then.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-853	Madam President, I would like Let me get this straight. We see this as two separate things. The flow of refugees is, of course, linked to what is happening in the outside world. Everybody knows that. Our policy for the Migration Agency is quite clear and clear, so I don't need to explain it again. Now we are putting a stop, and most parties are moving in the same direction and following the line of the Swedish Democrats. According to the Finnish Immigration Service, most are not refugees from war, but simply seek better living conditions. I fully understand that. The Migration Board says this, and Allan Widman is well aware of it. Now a lot of people are going home. There are planes going back to Iraq every week. It's vacation trips, and then they come back here again. Not everyone does that, far from everyone. When it comes to migration, we read about completely crazy decisions. Now an Iranian family who has worked for four years is to be deported. This is another debate that can be held here. We have a lot to say about it, but we have to do that when we discuss migration. It is clear that there is a connection with the unrest in the world, but it is not the same as that it is free to come to Sweden and break down Swedish welfare. We can't even afford our own defense now. This policy is mainly the responsibility of the Alliance.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-858	Madam President, I would like Much has been said so far. I think it is important to make it clear that our engagement in Afghanistan has entered a new stage. With the Swedish flag being hauled on Camp Northern Lights in Mazar-e Sharif last year, the Swedish contribution was passed in RSM. As far as our continued involvement is concerned, it is based on the fact that we are contributing an armed force of up to 50 people, who will mainly be active in the northern part of the country and will focus on advice at regional level and at the Afghan Ministry of Defence. Madam President, I would like It is important to stress that the operation is precisely about support and advice to the Afghan security forces, in the sense that the Afghans themselves will be able to manage the security of their country and respond to the terrorist threat. In addition to the force contribution itself, it is possible to provide a maximum temporary reinforcement and evacuation force of 200 persons, if the situation so requires. It brings us to the security situation in Afghanistan. Already when we met in this House a year ago to decide on participation in the RSM, we saw that developments were moving in the wrong direction. Today, a year later, we note that the situation has unfortunately continued to deteriorate. Jihadist groups like the Taliban and Daish are getting more and more followers. Armed resistance has taken advantage of the situation arising from the closure of the ISAF operation and the limitation of the international military presence. The overall assessment is that the prolonged armed conflict is the main obstacle to Afghanistan's development. However, the deteriorating security situation has not significantly affected the RSM, as its work is mainly directed at higher levels within the Afghan army. Madam President, I would like Afghanistan is facing an uncertain future today. That is why it is so important that the international community does not leave the country to its fate. It should be remembered that when we talk about terrorism, it is not primarily citizens in our part of the world who are most vulnerable, but it is primarily civilians in countries such as Syria and Afghanistan who are forced to live every day in the shadow of violence and terror. But yes, there is no purely military solution to ensure a long-term stable Afghanistan. There is also a need for sustainable development in terms of governance, human rights and the rule of law. However, the ability of Afghan police and military forces to maintain law and order is essential to ensure that conditions exist for building functioning social structures and ensuring peaceful development. It is also important to ensure that the humanitarian efforts of Sweden and the other international community can be carried out safely. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-869	Madam President, I would like A beautiful spring day at the end of March 2011 I sat in the back seat of a car on the road between Mazar-e Sharif and Aibak in Samangan. With me in the back seat, there was this young woman, who we could call Razia. We sat and talked in English. The driver didn't know any English. We were talking pretty openly to each other. What's the situation? How are you women doing in Afghanistan? How are you? How do you view the future? She was a teenager under Taliban rule. She said that a lot of things had happened and that many things had gotten much better. She said, "We'll never go back." We refuse. On the way to Aibak this beautiful spring day the hills were green and the almond trees bloomed. Afghanistan can be very beautiful – it's not just four shades of brown. We passed a collection of young guys celebrating spring. It had been New Year's, Nouruz, and we stayed. They danced, sang, had a picnic and were very happy. When we arrived at Aibak, we attended a midwife's training course. At the time, I was on the board of the Swedish Afghanistan Committee, and it was in that capacity that I was there. About 20 young women attended the training. Most were single, but some were married and had their children with them. They had been sent from their villages to attend education, to become midwives, and to save the lives of both mothers and children. They saw their future: back home to the village and save lives and make sure you have a better life. Mr President, I would like to A year later, in the fall of 2012, I was back in Afghanistan. In Kabul, I and some other female parliamentarians met with a number of female Afghan parliamentarians who sat in l oi a jirga. The interesting thing was that they were from different ethnic groups. We discussed the future and the situation of women. They also agreed that they just had to move forward, that it had to get better, that they had to have peace and quiet and that the Taliban attacks had to end. Not long ago, perhaps six months or a year, one of these women was attacked by Taliban in Kabul. I would like to hear what Razia is saying today about the recent situation in Afghanistan. It's gone back. That's not good. We are seeing more and more Taliban attacks. That's why I get worried when you're a little naive. I'd probably call you naive, Stig Henriksson, because you're not mean, quite the opposite. Progress is going in the wrong direction, and we need to be able to support the Afghan national forces with training. For me, the question is: do we want a parliament that is something like that when democratically elected? Or does Stig Henriksson want Taliban rule? Because that's what I see if we don't help get the army in order to stand up to the Taliban. The Left Party was also opposed when we had ISAF there, for the same reason. But it got so much better during that time. Now the problem of a country is not solved in the long run by military alone. Afghanistan also has so many other problems, such as corruption. There are many other things that need to be resolved. As someone said, the civilian victims in Afghanistan were highest in 2015, according to the UN. That is regrettable. That is precisely why, for the only reason, we and other countries must be there to support the Afghan forces and, for that matter, to train the police, which we are not doing today, so that they can stand on their own feet at some point defending their own women and their democracy. I believe in Afghanistan. Most Afghan people– I can't say everyone, because I don't know everyone – are incredibly nice. They have a great sense of humor and are hardworking and very proud. Of course we have to do it. Then I understand that the Swedish Democrats are saying no to this, because they have no money. We will discuss that tomorrow. In budget area 6, grant 1:2 The Swedish Armed Forces' efforts internationally, Sweden Democrats have SEK 0. It is clear that we cannot be in solidarity with Afghan women, children and young men at that time. For Razia, for the women who are training, for the young boys who were so happy that it was ours, beautiful and nice – for all of them – we must be there to help and support them. That is why I say a resoundingly yes to the proposal in the report UFöU1, Continued Swedish participation in NATO's RSM training and advisory mission in Afghanistan.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-884	Mr President, I would like to Lena Asplund calls my approach naive. It's quite interesting. After 14 years of work – the beautiful word engagement, as it is called when making military operations year after year – Lena Asplund himself can find out from her graphic description that it is going in the wrong direction. Her conclusion is that in order to be not naive, you should do the same thing that you have failed to do for 14 years. It feels like you can discuss which one of us is the most naive. No, I don't want Taliban rule. I think it is perhaps a low mark in the debate to ask the question at all. I can only say that according to the United States' own estimates, the number of Taliban in a couple of years has increased from 10 000 to 60 000. Which one of us is naive? We continue to want Sweden to make great efforts in Afghanistan, but not with what is not succeeding. We want to radically change the image that over the years Sweden has invested 6 1⁄2 billion in civilian aid and 28.2 billion in military aid. The latter has led to more harm than good. In addition, just ask: What do the civil organisations say? I shall not weary either the House or any audience to go through what Doctors U tan G ränser, the Swedish Afghanistan Committee and other aid organisations say about the so-called military engagement that has occurred.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-889	Mr President, I would like to The only way to fight back against the Taliban is that the Afghan army is strong enough to cause sufficient losses to the Taliban. The greater the losses they suffer, the harder and harder it becomes for them to carry out their cause. Kunduz was taken earlier this autumn. There, the Afghan national army managed to expel the Taliban again, so Kunduz is no longer under Taliban rule. Would they have succeeded if the Afghan army had been the way it was if we went back a few years? No, I don't think so. The Afghan army has not been the most successful. It has not been made up of the best people. There have been drugs. Actually it has been even worse in the police; in the army it has been something better. That is why we must support them, help out, make strategies and so on. In its special opinion, the Left Party's policy for Afghanistan is based on solidarity with the Afghan people. But then show it, and say yes to the proposal in the report that we should support the Afghan people so that in the long term they will be able to fend for themselves and expel the Taliban! Like in many other places, the Taliban have acquired a position by supporting the farmers by ensuring that they can grow opium and be left alone. That is not the way to deal with this. We must therefore ensure that there is order. Otherwise, it'll never work out.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-894	Mr President, I would like to It is a reasonable hypothesis that this would be the only way to solve it. But things are going the wrong way. The number of civilian deaths is increasing and women's rights are improving only marginally in some areas and are deteriorating in others. The improvements are, of course, not mainly due to military operations but to the efforts of aid organisations. In many cases, these organisations turn directly towards military activities. Afghanistan is the main supplier of the world's opium and heroin. It is noted that Taliban, warlords and authorities are deeply involved in this. The security forces are widely criticised for human rights violations. We're just not supposed to talk about the police. They're even carrying out executions without a trial. It is these authorities that we are helping to build up. It seems like that, you could put it that way. The Left Party wants to show genuine solidarity. For us, solidarity does not necessarily mean that we should engage militarily. For us, commitment doesn't always mean sending soldiers. Thankfully, there are other ways to use these words — to use them rather than abuse them.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-897	Mr President, I would like to Now Sweden does both things. Stig Henriksson forgets that in the next ten years we will be spending EUR 8 billion on aid in Afghanistan. But for the money to come to its own, we need order. There's no fighting all the time. Above all, it cannot be the case that children cannot go to school and that midwives cannot go out and deliver women because of Taliban conflicts. I know that during Taliban rule there were some Taliban leaders who looked between their fingers and let girls go to school, but only at a certain age. When they grew old enough, they were not allowed to go to school anymore. You can't build a country like that. I'm still saying that I think you in the Left Party are naive when you think you should help out with something else. What else is there? Are you going to come over there and put a lid on it and tell me that this is how you're going to manage your democracy? I think you build a country from below. Now you need help to fight the Taliban and whatever it may be. We also do not know what is happening with Daish's involvement in Afghanistan. The Taliban aren't some lovers of Daish, so hopefully they're driven out. We don't know what the future shows. But what is important is that we show solidarity and help educate. Of course you need military. In the best of worlds, you may not need it. But we need it in Sweden, and you need it everywhere. Unfortunately, it looks like this; it is the truth. I think we need to stick to it. This is for women, for children and for young boys. We don't want to go back. We don't want Taliban rule. Don't back up Afghanistan to where it was 15 years ago!
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-909	Mr President, I would like to Lena Asplund said that we have zeroed the funding for international efforts in our budget, and that is quite right. It is good that Lena Asplund pays attention to it, so that I can explain it. This is due to a budgetary error on our part. The grant itself is not in that line but in the increased funding we give to the Swedish Armed Forces, 18 billion more than the government over a four-year period. It also includes the international efforts supported by the Swedish Democrats, including Iraq and Mali. So the money is there, but unfortunately there has been a budgetary error, which means that it is not in the post where it is supposed to be. It is good that attention was paid to this. The reason why the Swedish Democrats focus on the Swedish defence is that Lena Asplund's party colleagues during the time they sat in the government focused on international efforts at the expense of the defence of the Swedish territory. It took over from the former Social Democratic Government a heavily weighted defence force with an allocation of 1.5% of GDP, and continued dismantling because it was seen as a cash cow that could be used to finance other activities and reforms. Now the grant is down to 1.2 percent of the bnp. It was claimed that there was no threat in our neighbourhood, and it took until the situation in Ukraine changed drastically before a dizzy awakening occurred and realized that the situation in the immediate area was rapidly changing. We have always warned that the security policy situation around Sweden can change very quickly.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-913	Mr President, I would like to I did not understand that Björn Söder had any question for me or any thought he wanted me to answer, but he made a statement about what it was like. Maybe that's what happened. We invested a great deal in international efforts, and as things were then, it felt right. In retrospect, we can see that it was a good thing, because it gave our armed forces much better equipment. We wouldn't have had helicopter 16, Black Hawk, if we hadn't been in Afghanistan. We'll be glad we have them. This is history. Now the government, us and three other parties in the Alliance are making the right priorities in the future. And so we will have a budget debate tomorrow where we will have to discuss technicalities in the budget.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-915	Mr President, I would like to Lena Asplund made the statement that we had zeroed for international efforts, which we had quite rightly done. That is why I wanted to tell you what the real situation was. The money's there. When you build a defence force, you cannot do it on an ad hoc basis and just start from what the situation is like now. The state of security policy can change very quickly, and we have warned against this here in Parliament since 2010, while the bourgeois parties, together with the others, felt that there was no threat at all in our neighbourhood. As late as 2014 at the People's and Defence National Conference, the then Minister of Defence stood and said that for the foreseeable future the assessment will continue to be that it is calm in our neighbourhood and that it is this that determines how we equip our armed forces. It was at the same time that the conflicts in Maidan Square were going on and Russia had its biggest exercise in many years. Vips, the situation changed. It became a dizzy awakening to the bourgeois side, which suddenly had to re-evaluate its policy. It is good to have done so, but to have guarantees you have to equip for the long term. Care must be taken to have a defence force that can be equipped when the security policy situation changes rapidly. The bourgeois government has not done so before, but it saw the defence as a cash cow from which money could continue to be collected to finance its reforms, including in the field of taxation and in many other areas. It doesn't work that way. On the other hand, we have warned early that the security situation can change rapidly. We have always budgeted considerably more than the then bourgeois government and the current red-green government for a proper defence force which can also guarantee that we are protecting our own territory.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-919	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by making it clear that I did not sit on the Committee on Defence in the previous term of office, 2010-2014. What the Swedish Democrats said then I leave behind. I cannot answer that because I did not participate in that debate at the time. I sat on the tax committee and can be more responsible for tax matters, but that is not what we are going to debate here. I am content to say this, because I cannot find that there is any other answer that Björn Söder wants.
i-SbnxrbPgbvtjbGrsFT8ktc	Mr President, I would like to Almost 14 years ago, on 20 December 2001, UN Security Council Resolution 1386 approved the establishment of the ISAF International Security Force to assist the Afghan Government in maintaining the security of Kabul and in supporting the transition to democratic rule in Afghanistan. Today, the Afghan security forces have taken over responsibility for the security of their country, but Sweden still provides military personnel in the form of advisors in the framework of the Resolute Support Mission, RSM, which the government is now proposing to extend. Our support for Afghanistan will continue. Mr President, I would like to We know that the Swedish effort has done and continues to make a difference. It concerns diplomatic and political activities, military and other crisis management operations, as well as development aid, including police contributions. Sweden has helped girls to have better access to education, to the expansion of health care and to improve the situation for democracy and human rights. However, Afghanistan is still struggling with widespread problems. This is not least about corruption, lawlessness and violence. The armed conflict has worsened, as the Taliban and other forces have exploited the vacuum and the situation that has arisen in connection with the closure of the ISAF operation and the limitation of the international military presence. The Taliban have launched offensive operations in several parts of the country. There are indications that even ISIL has established itself in certain provinces. However, the security situation differs in different parts of the country. The number of civilian deaths is highest in the southern and eastern parts, where women and children are increasingly affected by violence. A new development is that groups that swear loyalty to ISIL have begun to assume responsibility for various acts of terrorism, especially in eastern Afghanistan. Based on this development, it is important that the Swedish effort is extended. Mr President, I would like to Sweden's contribution to the RSM is planned to continue to consist of a maximum of 50 people on site in Afghanistan and is mainly intended to be active in northern Afghanistan. It will continue to consist in particular of advisors to the regional level of command and the 209th corps of the Afghan army in Mazar-e-Sharif-e-Sharif in northern Afghanistan. The aim is to consolidate the ability of Afghan security forces to deal independently with security in the country. Sweden will continue to contribute with handling personnel to the military base Marmal Air Base. The strength contribution will also include staff officers to the staff that RSM leads in Mazar-e-Sharif-e-Sharif. It may also be added that since 1 January 2015 the spokesperson for the RSM in Kabul has been a Swedish officer. Mr President, I would like to It is of great importance that the international community, including Sweden, continue to support and assist the Afghan Government in its quest for a stable and secure society, which is a prerequisite for long-term development work. All people in Afghanistan deserve to live in peace, security and security, and we have a duty to do what we can to safeguard such development. That is why I call for the government's proposal to be approved.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-927	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by looking back a little bit on our efforts in Afghanistan. What we are discussing today is the result of a very long and difficult development in Afghanistan. As many of us remember, this war situation began when the US-led coalition through Enduring Freedom launched its attacks in Afghanistan on 7 October 2001 as a result of the attacks on 11 September of the same year. In December 2001, the United States declared that the Taliban had been defeated. However, further efforts were needed to weaken both Al-Qaida and the Taliban. Looking back now after almost 15 years, we can see that the Taliban movement and other groupings have had an extraordinary ability to recover, regroup, acquire new resources and recruit new supporters. In 2007, the United States was forced to reinforce with another 3,500 soldiers sent to Afghanistan. Today it has been said in the debate that we have seen the situation stabilise in part recently. Over the years, Sweden has been active in four provinces in northern Afghanistan. I myself have visited Camp Northern Lights and travelled around these provinces. It is quite clear to us who have been involved in aid activities and humanitarian work and have travelled in many aid countries that Afghanistan itself is a very special challenge. The starting point has been extremely difficult. We have had various discussions here today, which have gone back and forth on the fact that developments have gone backwards or forwards. Perhaps nothing else is to be expected in the case of a country with conditions such as Afghanistan as its starting point. A few years ago, in 2010, we entered into a cross-party agreement on Swedish aid to Afghanistan under the leadership of the then Minister of Aid Gunilla Carlsson. I participated on behalf of my party. We then agreed on an aid commitment in Afghanistan that would last 10 to 15 years, an aid effort that would eventually reach as much as 800 million to 1 billion a year. And there we are. This is one of the biggest humanitarian efforts Sweden has ever made in terms of aid. On the military side, we have been active in Mazar-e-Sharif-e-Sharif and the four provinces of northern Afghanistan. Now there is an extension that we might not have really hoped for or expected. But being critical of it would be going wrong. We've gotten into this. We have promised to be involved in helping build a stable Afghanistan. Perhaps the exits have been wrong. Perhaps our expectations have been too high when we thought that a certain period of time would be sufficient. The conditions are that Afghanistan is one of the world's poorest and most corrupt countries and has great frictions between different clan leaders – or warlords, as they were previously called – that dominate different parts of Afghanistan. What were our expectations? How quickly do we think it can be possible to stabilise such a country? I think there is reason to be self-critical and to reflect on what we have done. The document we are discussing and debating here today states in point 3.3, Security: aggravating the extent and intensity of the armed conflict. This is worth reflecting on. The humanitarian situation in Afghanistan continues to deteriorate. The current conflict, extreme weather conditions and other natural disasters are the main reasons for the difficult situation in the country. As the Minister for Defence said earlier today, the situation in Afghanistan is now deteriorating in terms of both humanitarian and security, although the overall trend is that there has been some stabilisation which has enabled progress to be made in Afghanistan on education, especially for young girls, and on health. I support the proposal in the report. Perseverance is important for us. What we say at one point should of course be what applies at another time. We must follow the situation in Afghanistan with difficult and poor conditions. Once we get into this, we must be sustained in terms of both security and military – but also humanitarian – in the area of aid.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-935	Mr President, I would like to I would like to correct two points and comment on one point. First of all, I would like to correct myself with regard to what I said in my main speech on the international legal basis for the operation in Afghanistan. It is an agreement between Afghanistan and NATO that also allows non-NATO countries to participate in the mission, where Sweden has chosen to provide military personnel by decision in the Riksdag. It is this and nothing else that is the mandate of international law. Then I gave a little too many parties when it comes to who has concluded the defence agreement. There are five parties that have concluded the defence agreement. Right should be right. To conclude, Mr President: Stig Henriksson has repeatedly questioned, as he says, Tone Tingsgård as a person, but the fact that she has been appointed to evaluate the Afghanistan operation. My recommendation to Henriksson is that it may be wise to be careful to question the outcome of the review before it is finished.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-939	Mr President, I would like to I'll try to be brief. The basis of international law is not exactly clear. After all, the UN Charter prohibits one party from taking a stand in an ongoing internal conflict where the inviting government does not have control over the territory. I think it fits rather perfectly into the Afghan government. As for waiting until the investigation is complete, yes, you can. But that was not the intention of the Social Democratic Party Congress which commissioned a White Paper and which must reasonably have meant something other than that one of the main players should investigate their own and others' efforts in this area. The Secretary of Defense said a year ago that the order for a White Paper would be executed. My simple question is, why not?
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-943	Mr President, I would like to What I wanted to do was clarify the basis on which we made this decision. I gave an incorrect basis in my speech earlier today. That was not the right basis in this context. Then you can discuss whether the foundation is relevant or not. Stig Henriksson obviously has a slightly different view. But at least now we have the right basis to discuss. On the question of evaluation, I am primarily opposed to the fact that Stig Henriksson judges an evaluation work before it is even finished. I think it's clever to read and think about it. Then it is very possible that Stig Henriksson does not share the evaluation's conclusions once it has arrived, but I think it might be wise to wait until then. With regard to the question of the Social Democratic Congress decision on a White Paper, we will certainly have reason to discuss it further within the Social Democrats. We have a good tradition of reconciling our congressional decisions and seeing how they go. I do not think that the added evaluation with Tone Tingsgård precludes other evaluations. Stig Henriksson himself has pointed out how the Swedish Afghanistan Committee has made an evaluation that is also an interesting and valuable reading in this context.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-947	Mr President, I would like to I thank you for the opportunity to also discuss the issue of international law here. No, I haven't failed the results of the investigation. I have not touched on it at all for the simple reason that there is no result to be considered, but it is the approach that I criticise. It goes without saying that on a controversial issue such as the Swedish Afghanistan operation, which has cost human lives, Swedish and others, and has involved enormous costs, around 10 billion in direct costs, perhaps up to 28 billion all included, one should strive to get an investigation whose approach one can have faith in. Then, as I understand it, an independent committee of experts should be set up in Denmark and Norway, and not one of those who have actively participated and made decisions in one direction or another. It's really strange that Kenneth can't see this. Allan Widman also agreed that, in principle, it is not so successful to investigate himself, as is actually the case now. So it is not the result, but the arrangement that I have criticised, and we must reasonably do so before the investigation is completed, because then it is probably that time.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-951	Mr President, I would like to Stig Henriksson says here that it goes without saying that, and so on. No, it goes without saying that because you need to know what the evaluation comes up with to know what it says. I have good hope and good faith in Tove Tingsgård's professionalism. I believe that this will certainly be an interesting reading which will certainly not be uncritical of the Swedish military operation in Afghanistan either. But let's judge the evaluation when it's done.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-953	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by stating one thing: this is an urgent task which is dealt with in the report. We choose to expand with up to 120 people in northern Iraq until the end of December 2016. It's an appreciated contribution. We are part of an international coalition that participates in the fight against ISIL/ Daish. We belong to an inner core of 20 countries. Not least in light of this, this request should be seen as being addressed by the United States to a number of countries and friends, including Sweden, for increased support and commitment. We contribute, but we also, I believe, have the opportunity to do more. In June 2014, the so-called Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant, ISIL, proclaimed a caliphate in the areas held by the organisation in Iraq and Syria. In a relatively short time, ISIL/ Daish has established itself as the largest and most aggressive force in the Middle East and North Africa. The emergence can be seen as a result of a political disintegration in the region and that these forces of darkness, with their death squadrons, have taken an ever greater place. The methods of financing are not exactly unknown. It is about pure illegal activity with theft and looting but also about conquering valuable resources such as agricultural land and oil wells. Strict sharia laws have been introduced in the areas where they have been drawn up and where they are occupied. The people are suffering badly. Disparities and people who have a different belief and perception are literally purged. Women and children are particularly vulnerable. Mr President, I would like to Iraq faces difficult challenges. The level of violence in the country is high. There is an ongoing humanitarian crisis. Millions have fled their homes as a result of the armed conflict. In addition, the many refugees from Syria who have entered Iraq - to no extent seeking protection from President Assad of Syria. The need for aid to Iraq is therefore clear. And we support the proposal that Sweden continue to participate in this effort. In addition, we will continue to provide humanitarian support and development cooperation with a focus on promoting democratic development, human rights, women's situation, gender equality, anti-corruption and support for civil society. It is about institution-building, a seemingly boring and cumbersome word but which means the rule of law, equality before law and order. Mr President, I would like to The situation in Iraq and the whole region is more complex today than when the decision was taken on the operation last spring. There are a number of groupings that are in conflict with ISIL/ Daish but which also fight each other. In addition, the situation in the region has been complicated by Russia's military involvement in the Syrian war and obvious support for President Assad. Turkey has also chosen to play a more active role, while at the same time there is an internal power struggle within the Kurdistan regional government. And we have the dark deeds in Paris on 13 November and France's request for help under the Treaty of Lisbon as well as a request from the US for more action against Daish to take into account. Mr President, I would like to For the first time, a country, France, has requested assistance under Article 42(7) of the Treaty of Lisbon. It is important that we respond to this request clearly and with substance. We are involved in setting a standard and a standard. As we are now dealing with another Member State of the European Union, we would reasonably like to be treated ourselves when we need help and support in the context of crisis or war. That is why it is important that we now do the right thing. As regards the French request and the US letter, talks are now taking place between the government and the opposition. I suppose that's a good thing, even if they seem to go on longer than I had in mind. It would have been excellent if the government had chosen to act as proactively as the present proposal would have been prepared, hence our reservation. Please talk to us before, preferably as we ask much of the women and men we send out on important and important military missions abroad. It's not about seeing us as round marks or as rubber stamps. Mr President, I would like to The training operation, coordinated by a staff in Erbil, aims to provide advice and to and train the Iraqi defence forces in, among other things, arms handling, medical care, defence combat, fighting in settlements and detection of improvised explosive devices. Mr President, I would like to In a motion from the Moderates and the Center Party, we have raised some important issues regarding this effort. Firstly, it is a question of anchoring: that the government should return to the system of ensuring a broad consensus in this House in view of future proposals for peace-promoting efforts. Secondly, it is about the need to evaluate the efforts that Sweden has carried out in Iraq since the start of the operation. Thirdly, it is about the need to make an overall assessment of the security situation in Iraq and its impact on the Swedish operation. Fourthly, the legal status of staff and the need for clear bilateral agreements with Iraq. It is important that there is broad political support for sending Swedish men and women into dangerous military operations and that there is a common understanding of the challenges involved and what the long-term goal is. For example, we have not been clear about our previously asked questions about the security and legal status of our staff. This is important. Mr President, I would like to In addition, with this decision we are now in practice emptying the account for international action. If we are going to do more in Iraq or elsewhere – 2016 has all the possibilities to become an eventful year – it requires additional resources. Then I would like to make it clear that it is not possible to take money from the national defence to pay for this. For me, the defence agreement is solid and therefore also the defence decision. Mr President, I would like to When we make this kind of decision, it is urgent that we think about the Swedish women and men who are going to carry out the effort itself. It's not without risks. It means personal sacrifice. I would therefore like to take this opportunity, on behalf of the House, to thank all the Swedes who are making efforts in the service of peace. With this, Mr President, I am in favour of reservation No 1 by the Moderates and the Centers.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-972	Madam President, I would like Allan Widman asked a rather relevant question when we debated the previous report on why we are in favour of Swedish participation in Iraq while we are against Swedish participation in Afghanistan. For a friend of order, that is a perfectly relevant question. Both these participations are based on the mandate of international law, where the own regime has sought support from the international community. The fundamental principle of the Swedish Democrats is that we should not really participate in foreign efforts unless this is done through the UN. But there is no rule without an exception. The situation in Iraq affects us all very much. The Islamic state is not just something abstract and far from here. They're among us right now. Recent events in Europe have reminded us of this, and here in Sweden there are hundreds who have participated in battles for IS and perhaps thousands who sympathise with the terrorist organisation. The recent increase in immigration to Sweden has probably also brought new terrorists, disguised as refugees. It is therefore important that Sweden also participates in the fight against terrorism, on all different levels, both at home in Sweden and internationally. In Iraq, the ravages of the Islamic State have caused almost unimaginable suffering for the Iraqi people in general and its ethnic and religious minorities in particular. Since 2003 there were about 1.2 million Christians in Iraq alone, many have been forced to flee, and the number is estimated to have fallen as low as 180 000. Related to the situation of Christians is the situation of other minorities, such as Yazidians, Mandés, Turkmens, Jews, Roma and Shabaks. In August 2014, thousands of Yazidians were forced to flee to the Sinjar Mountains, where they risked starving to death for lack of water and food. IS also managed to take its barbaric reign of terror to a whole new level by institutionalising sexual slavery among its soldiers under the premise that rape would bring non-Muslims closer to Gud. In the wake of the Iraqi military offensive in spring 2015, there have also been reports of gross assaults on the Sunni population. The war has created a very serious humanitarian situation in some places, and large resources are needed to deal with humanitarian needs. That is why we believe that funding a hopelessly ineffective immigration policy is a mispriority of historical measures by increasing, among other things, the offsetting of aid appropriations rather than giving priority to aid in these areas. We believe that Sweden should use its limited resources where they are most useful, greatly increase support for humanitarian operations and work towards the establishment of a security zone for its minorities. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats are positive about the Swedish effort in Iraq but also with concern about its shortcomings. To become an effective icebreaker, a much wider range of measures is needed, both in Iraq and at home in Sweden. Iraq is, in many respects, a problematic state. The borders of the country do not reflect a natural demarcation of ethnic groups, but rather an arbitrary division by European colonial powers. As Iraq is a patchwork of peoples who show obvious difficulties in co-existence peacefully, it needs a constitutional solution that takes into account the legitimate demands of its minorities for greater independence. As the policy in Iraq is strongly ethnically emphasised, it is neither fair nor appropriate for one group to have to lean on another for its military defence. When IS invaded northern Iraq and the Nineves plain in 2014, the Kurdish forces and the national Iraqi army fled. The Christian and Yazid people were left to their fate, with terrible consequences, almost like genocide. The events of 2014 clearly show that the Christian and Yazid people, although receiving important support from the Kurdish militia during the conflict, do not have any guarantees of support from outside forces. For this reason, it has laid the foundations for its own defence force called the NPU. The strength is small, about 600 men, trained by a private security company and receives their funding from private donations. We consider it extremely urgent that even the weakest minorities in Iraq have the opportunity to defend themselves and ensure their survival. We therefore want the government to work to ensure that the coalition against IS also includes the NPU in its support efforts, if not already done. Christian and Yazidians are among the smallest and weakest minorities in the country, and their ability to defend themselves is a prerequisite for the creation of the autonomous province promised by the Iraqi Government. The educational effort itself is important but not sufficient to support effectively the Kurdish, Iraqi and possibly Christian and Yazid forces. We therefore want to broaden the effort by the government investigating needs and opportunities for material support. We do not mean war material for combat, but other specialized material support. Such support could include communication and medical devices, mobile internet connections and computers and small driverless surveillance plans similar to those used in the Afghanistan operation, to name a few examples. The Nineves plain in northern Iraq was part of the historical Assyrian kingdom and has for a long time been surrounded by mainly Assyrians/Syrians and Chaldeans. Even the Kurds have for a long time had a great deal of autonomy and have demonstrated democratic development and respect for human rights, although some mutual violence between Kurdish groups has been reported during the year. We therefore believe that the government should use its influence and supplement the military effort with a political process to influence the Iraqi Government towards greater autonomy for the Christians in the Nineves plain and the Kurdish parts of Iraq. We believe that this is the only solution to bring about a stable and secure long-term situation in Iraq. Finally, Madam President, participation in international efforts is a burden on the defence budget. In a situation where Sweden does not have a defence of existence to talk about, while the security policy situation in Europe remains uncertain, we do not think it appropriate to impose a further burden on the defence budget. We therefore believe that the government should provide increased resources to the defence through loans and then adjust this in the forthcoming spring budget. We generally want to see substantially increased resources for the defence, but we believe that the government should at least provide additional funds in order to compensate for the financial strain that it entails for the Armed Forces to carry out the operation in Iraq. I support the reservations of the Swedish Democrats 4, 6 and 7.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-993	Madam President, I would like The events of recent weeks show that it is a troubled time with many threats and ongoing conflicts. Big and small things are happening that affect us. It happens close, and it happens in the distance. Not least in the Middle East, the situation is becoming increasingly intransparent, and the course of events is becoming increasingly complex and complex. The conflict areas affect many people. I think we can be very proud that Sweden, like the rest of the EU, is part of the broad coalition against Daish. The international coalition's efforts are central to achieving peace and working for security in Iraq and Syria. The efforts to defeat Daish are also important for security here in Europe and in Sweden. We must continue to cooperate with other countries and organisations in order to prevent and combat this terrorist activity, with respect for and starting from international law. In Iraq, the murder of Yazidi, Assyrians/Syrians and other Christian groups, Kurds and Shia Muslims has taken grotesque forms. Killing and fighting must end, and the UN must provide more resources to meet the needs of large flows of refugees, especially to neighbouring countries. At the same time, the people who commit these detestable acts must be brought to justice. We are concerned that the conflicts between the various Kurdish parties in the Iraqi Autonomous Community of Kurdistan have increased recently. Let us now hope that Iraqi Kurdistan does not end up in a new mutual conflict, because that would be devastating. Madam President, I would like It is important to ensure that the Swedish military training operation remains relevant and feasible even in a changing political environment. In order to achieve success in fighting Daish and stabilising Iraq, it is important for security that the country's ethnic and religious groups can be protected. The international coalition's military plan for Iraq aims to prevent Daish's advance and to defeat the organisation. The military plan is a broader strategy, including diplomacy and humanitarian action. That is why a political solution needs to be found. I would like to stress the importance of Parliament receiving ongoing information through the relevant committees or in the Chamber in the event of any adaptation of the Swedish contribution. The current situation in Iraq makes the country a very complicated area to take action in, and it affects the security of Sweden and our Swedish forces. Therefore, it is particularly important to have a thorough analysis, to have a good overall view and to strive for a long-term perspective in how Sweden can and should contribute. This is also an effort that needs a good and broad political process based on dialogue and broad support. It is important in view of any other forthcoming new efforts that the broad anchoring of the government and other parliamentary parties is sought in these discussions. Broad support requires broad dialogue. Peace-promoting efforts require a common broad sense of responsibility and decisions involving as many parties as possible in this House. It also serves Swedish security interests. It is good for the life and health of our citizens. The investment in 2016 is estimated to cost up to SEK 115 million. This means, in practice, that there will be no additional funding available for next year under envelope 1:2 for international actions. If there is a further need for reinforced efforts, we in the Center Party assume that more money will be added to that appropriation and that it in itself will not affect the other military defence appropriations in order to in turn adversely affect Swedish defence capabilities. Madam President, I would like Our defence policy agreement for the period 2016 – 2020 means that if more international efforts are to be made, it must not undermine Sweden's defence capabilities. We need to focus on national defence, to contribute with international efforts and to deal with new situations that will meet us for the coming years. There are turbulent and worrying times. For some, it may be natural to close down and look after your own house in the first place. But for the Center Party, the deteriorating security situation in Europe cannot mean that we are not ready to act in international action. For us, it is obvious that Sweden must continue to provide support to people who sometimes, with life as an effort, work for political and peaceful solutions. This is true in Iraq and Afghanistan, and it also applies elsewhere in the world. The Center Party wants to continue to be a force for people's freedom, to work for a safe, secure and peaceful world and to ensure that Sweden takes a major international responsibility both in development work and through international efforts. I would like to conclude by thanking all the women and men who are now making efforts in the service of peace on behalf of Sweden. Thank you to those directly concerned, and thanks to all the relatives who make it possible to implement the decisions taken by the Riksdag.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-1008	Madam President, I would like This evening, therefore, we are debating the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, which deals with the continuation of Swedish participation in the military training operation in northern Iraq. I will comment on the report in a moment, but first let me describe some of the reality in northern Iraq and Syria. After ten years of systematic persecution, the number of Christians in Iraq has fallen from 1.5 million people to about one third. The rest have been forced to flee abroad or have been killed in ever-increasing harassment and abuse. In Syria there is a similar situation. At least one third of the country's 600,000 Christians have been forced to flee because of their faith. Similarly, the Yazidians have also been affected. It is a situation in which, as decision-makers in both the Swedish Parliament and the European Parliament, we must take to heart the facts and see that the Isis/ Daish exposes the Christians and Yazidians, the minorities in Iraq and Syria, is nothing more than genocide. That is why clear action is needed. What we are now discussing is Sweden's contribution. This is about continued Swedish participation in northern Iraq. A Swedish armed force will be available until the end of 2016 for the military training operation. The operation is being conducted against Daish/ IS at the invitation of the Iraqi Government. Sweden's contribution consists of 35 people, and the strength can, if necessary, be increased by 85 people and a total of 120 people. When the operation was first decided, the deadline was December 2015. The situation today is far more complex and difficult to assess than when the last decision was taken in early 2015. Complicated factors have been added, such as Russia's decision to send troops to Syria, the fact that a series of groups that are in conflict with Daish/ IS are also conducting a conflict among themselves and that Turkey has chosen to take a more active role in the situation. An educational effort in a war country must have a long-term mandate in order for all parties involved to establish a long-term strategy. The fact that the government now intends to decide on an annual basis is better than in the previous decision. However, trying to achieve a long-term perspective in the operation in Iraq is of paramount importance. Therefore, the Government should ensure that the Armed Forces have full insight into the Government's strategic considerations as well as in the foreign policy considerations that have been made in this matter. In Sweden's fight against terrorism, our contribution to the international coalition against Daish/ IS is significant. The Christian Democrats therefore believe that the scale of the effort over time needs to be stepped up. Sweden therefore needs to prepare to develop the operation and provide further assistance to the coalition or to other countries affected by the conflict in Iraq and Syria. If the coalition so requests, Sweden should review the possibility of sending JAS 39 Gripen aircraft in the fight against Daish/ IS. What tasks Swedish combat aircraft could have in place must the Swedish Armed Forces help to assess, but we from the Swedish Parliament should signal that we are prepared to assist with combat aircraft if the issue comes. The Kurdistan regional government, the KRG, needs the support of the outside world and has itself asked for support in the form of military equipment. Sweden should heed this appeal, as Germany, for example, has done. What type of material Sweden has the opportunity to contribute within the framework of our current legislation should be prepared at government level. However, the aim of the Swedish side should be to support the KRG with materials – if possible. With these words, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 2, for time to come, but of course I support all our reservations.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-1017	Madam President, I would like Sweden has been active for some time in northern Iraq and in the Kurdistan region in training Kurdish peshmerga soldiers who are fighting Daish. We have, for this training operation, Swedish personnel stationed both at the Iraqi Defence Command in Baghdad and in the Kurdistan region, where the Peshmerga troops are located. Peshmerga is therefore a Kurdish military branch that is part of the Iraqi Defence Organisation. Normally we send personnel on armed missions based on Security Council resolutions in the UN, but this is one of the exceptions we have. Swedish personnel are present on the basis of a different international law basis – partly on the basis of the UN Security Council decision calling on all member states of the UN to stop fighting Daish, partly on the basis that the Iraqi nation and government have invited Sweden and a number of countries to participate in this training effort to support the Iraqi defence forces' fight against Daish. The region we are and primarily operate in, i.e. the Kurdistan region, is a complex region in terms of the internal political situation. It has become increasingly clear lately. We are following this closely from the Swedish Parliament and the Swedish Government, and it is also something that has been discussed in the course of work on this report. However, on the basis of the differences and complications we know between the various Kurdish parties and groupings in the Kurdistan region, I would like to point out in particular that it is of the utmost importance that all elected representatives and all parties in Iraq and in the Kurdistan region respect the democratic institutions of the country. With this, Madam President, I would like to endorse the proposal contained in the report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy No 2.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-1020	Madam President, I would like I think that the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs is making an excellent exposé on the legal basis for our action in Iraq, and I have no objection. However, we are some who have exercised and had reservations about this. For example, there is a motion from the Center Party and the Moderates where we highlight a few things. Among other things, we say that it is important that we take advantage of the experience we have with this type of effort, and I would like to hear a little bit about how the main representatives of the Social Democrats in this debate view it. We have also been very critical of the fact that the proposal has been preceded by a lack of anchoring. With regard to such big things as international efforts with women and men that we send abroad on dangerous missions – and I would like to emphasise that this is a dangerous mission – I think it is important that we have a broad base. We usually have that in historical terms. We had it under the alliance government, and I assume that the Social Democrats also want it that way. I can only say that, unfortunately, the draft has not been preceded by such informal talks. It would have been interesting to hear the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs also comment on that part. Now there is a large and broad participation in the Swedish Parliament's Chamber behind this, but I still think that when we are prepared to send the signal to keep or send troops abroad, it is good if it is preceded by broad consultations and that all sides have the opportunity to influence the documents and their design – precisely because no opposition representative should be regarded as either a rounding mark or a rubber stamp. Added to this is the economic dimension. With this effort, we will in practice empty the account for international operations within the framework of the defence budget, and that is embarrassing for 2016. We can get more proposals because there are worrying areas around Europe.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-1025	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Wallmark for the questions. Yes, it is important that we always make use of experience, both in the short and long term, during ongoing and after completed international efforts. In the process of extending this effort, we have had information and the opportunity to ask questions, and a lot of questions have also been asked about how the experience has been so far. How has it worked? Has the situation in the region in which we find ourselves changed decisively, so that perhaps we should consider how the operation should take place and to what extent it should take place? Nevertheless, we have come to the conclusion – and I have understood that it also has the support of Hans Wallmark and the Moderates – that it is important that we continue, even though the situation in this region does not look like when we started the effort. As far as anchoring is concerned, there have been talks and information with opposition parties. I understand that we would have liked to have more contact and a more extensive process of this kind. It is true, as Mr Wallmark points out, that there is a long tradition of it. Not least the previous moderate-led government was very careful to anchor this kind of decision in the opposition, I can testify to, and also give the opposition a real opportunity to influence content and direction. I think it is important to maintain this tradition, and I am absolutely convinced that the government also thinks it is important. The fact that you don't experience it this time is something we have to take to heart. We will have to take the opportunity to perform better in the future when we make new, similar decisions.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-1030	Madam President, I would like I appreciate the words of the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Without precipitating the current talks, I would also like to say that the government has been much more accommodating in talks on the handling of both France's request for support under the Treaty of Lisbon and the letter that has now come from the United States on further measures in the fight against ISIL/ Daish. I'd like to acknowledge that and show appreciation for that. It is clear that what happened in connection with this bill writing and what is happening now may possibly have a connection, but there is a completely different willingness for discussion. I would like to acknowledge that it is appreciated by the opposition. I also share the view that the situation has deteriorated compared to when we made the first decisions. That is why I believe it is important that we discuss and also evaluate this widely. Furthermore, I think we should be very proud of the effort we are making. For it is appreciated, it is needed and it is requested. People also see it – others in the Alliance and others in the coalition see what Sweden is contributing, and it is appreciated. We should also say that to those who are there, and I think everyone has. Finally, Madam President, we have the money. When we take the decision on this action tomorrow in this House, we will in practice have SEK 4 million left in the international intervention account in 2016. I think there are reasons to believe that more money may be needed in 2016. For the sake of clarity, I would therefore like to say that the Social Democrats and the Moderates are two of the parties behind the defence settlement that led to the defence decision we have and where the idea is that we move money from international efforts to national defence. Then I just want to make it clear that in 2016 we cannot move money from national defence to international activities, because now we are going to take home the defence decision we have taken.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-1035	Madam President, I would like It is good and gratifying that you feel that you are getting more information about and better opportunities to be involved in the process when it comes to what is currently being prepared about the request that has come from France and the letter that has come from the United States. What is the cause and effect of this, however, I am not going to speculate on, but it may be that Hans Wallmark is right. As far as the money is concerned, it is quite right that in 2016 there is very little room left. It is quite right that there is a defence agreement between five parties, and we all have five reasons to hold that agreement. This agreement is aimed at – that is to strengthen the Swedish defence, equip it better, staff it better and at all perform better – because it is extremely crucial given how our immediate environment and proximity look. This makes it difficult to find more money in 2016. I note that in any case in the media there is information on proposals and ideas from various parties in the opposition about things that would cost money in the international account. I assume that there will also be ideas on how to finance it, and I assume that this funding is outside the defence budget agreed in the five-party agreement.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-1038	Madam President, I would like It is no understatement to say that the US invasion of Iraq in 2003 did not lead to the result hoped for. Seen in the rearview mirror, most people probably agree that the war was a military, security policy, humanitarian, economic and moral failure. Unfortunately, the war also acted as a catalyst for jihadists from all over the Middle East and Europe, who travelled to Iraq to fight the United States. Although the US invasion can be said to form part of the basis of the violence in Iraq, there are also other important reasons for the situation we are seeing today. Not least has the civil war in Syria spilled over to Iraq. IS has seen the possibility of achieving its political goal, of forming a common Islamic state of the areas under its control in Syria and Iraq. A prerequisite for successfully combating IS and stabilising Iraq is that the country's underlying and unresolved problems of political influence on the country's many minorities and ethnic groups are addressed. The fact that IS has been able to take over one third of Iraq's territory is in many respects a consequence of these unresolved problems. Madam President, I would like The promotion and abuse of the Iraqi population by IS has led to extensive action by the international community. The UN has played a central role, both through the Security Council and through the UN mission on the ground in Iraq. The Green Party believes it is right for Sweden to heed the invitation from the Iraqi Government that we continue to participate in the military training operation carried out by the coalition against IS in northern Iraq. The UN Security Council has condemned IS' actions and stated that IS and other groups pose a threat to international global peace and security. On this basis, there is a legal basis for the operation, and the Green Party believes that it is a duty to stand up and fight for peace and security in the world. Madam President, I would like Having said that, it is important to emphasise that there is no military solution to the crisis. It is therefore important that we look at the total effort that Sweden does in addition to the purely military that we are discussing here today. It matters that Sweden is the country in Europe that receives the most asylum seekers, and it is important that at the same time we protect the aid and continue to be the largest donor per capita. That is why it is also important for the government to spend additional money on humanitarian aid at a time when the lives of people, especially girls and women, are at stake in underfunded refugee camps and for us to spend 1.5 billion on aid to the Syria crisis, where we are remarrying humanitarian aid with the long-term. It is an aid that benefits both Syria and neighbouring countries. It is also important that Sweden provides the peace process in Syria with diplomatic support through Birgitta Holst Alani, who, at the request of the UN Secretary-General, will help UN envoy Staffan de Mistura to broker peace in Syria. In order to combat IS, we must also instill confidence in the future of those who will build the region after the war – in those who seek refuge in IS because they see no other future. Madam President, I would like With this, I support the committee's proposal to continue Swedish participation in the military training operation in northern Iraq.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-1045	Madam President, I would like In my last change of line, with the chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, I forgot one of the important details that was also included in our motion. It is about the legal status of those from the Swedish Armed Forces who are present in northern Iraq. I would really like to stress to the government how important it is for us to seek a bilateral agreement with Iraq on the status of our staff. I would just like to remind the government side of this. Madam President, I would like In addition, the President of the United States announced in September 2014 that it intended to form an international coalition against the terrorist organisation ISIL, and shortly thereafter Sweden joined the coalition, and on 20 September 2014 Iraq welcomed military support in the fight against ISIL in a letter to the President of the United Nations Security Council. This is what Pernilla Stålhammar described. We are part of a coalition of over 60 countries, and we belong to the inner core of about 20 countries. Now there are also requests from some to do more. For example, letters from the United States to the Swedish Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have revealed this. I just want to ask Pernilla Stålhammar how she views this. We are making this decision now, but we can also imagine doing more within the framework of the coalition of which we are part. I also have a question of control: if we need to do more in northern Iraq or elsewhere in our international fight against ISIL/ Daish, then does Pernilla Stålhammar have any idea of how we could finance it? With the decision that we are making tomorrow, we are going to nullify the account for international action. Can Pernilla Stålhammar be open to, for example, moving money from national defence to international efforts?
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-1048	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Hans Wallmark! Of course, the legal status of the soldiers we send out is important. They are risking their lives, and it is important that we have everything in place. That's where I agree. Everyone has to stand up and help fight the vile movement that IS is. We have a smorgasbord of different stakes. As far as the EU solidarity clause is concerned, it does not necessarily involve military action, but it must contribute in a spirit of solidarity in the way that is appropriate and at which it is best. I would like to underline what I mentioned in my speech on Birgitta Holst Alanis's involvement, with Staffan de Mistura in Syria and the great humanitarian aid we provide, where we have also contributed SEK 2 million in this year to additional humanitarian aid in the region, as well as the large aid to Syria of EUR 1.5 billion that we will present on Thursday. Then we'll have to look at other stakes. I do not feel that I can comment on them here and now, because there are discussions going on, quite simply.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-1052	Madam President, I would like I think we can all agree in this House that ISIL/ Daish is the death squadron of our time. That is why it is right and proper – morally, politically and for the sake of the people affected by their progress in Syria, Iraq, Beirut, Istanbul or Paris – that we participate in every way in the fight against them. I also think it is important that this work contains several components, but the military component must be included. I appreciate the fact that Pernilla Stålhammar, on behalf of the government side, underlines the importance of the legal status of those serving in northern Iraq. I hope that the government can do more there, because we need that kind of legal structure on the ground. It is important for those who serve, and it is important for the Swedish Armed Forces. I believe, as I said, that in 2016 we will very likely have more and other talks about international efforts even with military component. As suggested by Pernilla Stålhammar, things can happen in Syria which can be encouraging but which also means that political and also military personnel may be needed on the ground to monitor a possible ceasefire and some form of stable peace. At least that's a hope you can have. I would just like to ask the control question that I had: could Pernilla Stålhammar, on behalf of the Green Party, imagine that the very type of international activity that contains a military component is financed by taking money from national defence?
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-1057	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Wallmark, for that question again! When you receive a request and make an assessment, you must of course look at where the money should be taken. However, it is not something that I can lead in this House today, because in that case there will be a redistribution of the money in the budget. I'd like to return the question... but I'm afraid I can't do that now... about what Hans Wallmark would have wanted to see that the money had been taken from.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-1059	Madam President, I would like I agree with much of Pernilla Stålhammar's initial analysis of the responsibility for Iraq's disintegration. It's easy to forget when you're in the middle of something. You still have to learn something from the history and background of Isis/ Daish's emergence. The Left Party supports the Government's proposal that, by the end of December 2016, a Swedish armed force should participate in the military training operation, in particular to train Kurdish peshmerga forces. It is an educational effort carried out by the coalition against ISIL/ Daish in northern Iraq at the invitation of the Iraqi Government. As has been said, the Swedish contribution is not very large numerically. There are a maximum of 35 men in the normal case, and it could be 120 if required. But as I understand it, good use is made where you work, so it is clearly substantial. This operation is supported by international law with the request of the recognised government of Iraq. In a letter from Iraq's then Foreign Minister to the UN Secretary-General on 25 June 2014, Iraq called for assistance in combating ISIL/ Daish through, inter alia, training and material support for the Iraqi defence. International aid is always a necessary condition for the Left Party to support this type of effort. There is a call for more to be done. If we are now going to go beyond the discussion that the report is really about, I think that we should of course always be able to consider doing more. I am, however, surprised to see that the 'do more' is so extremely attached precisely to military action. What Pernilla Stålhammar also pointed out – many humanitarian efforts, help to build civilian structures, etc. – is nevertheless, in the long term, as important as supporting military forces. Furthermore, as regards international law: On 15 August 2014, the UN Security Council adopted Resolution 2170 on collective and national action against ISIL, the NUSRA front and other groups linked to Al-Qaida and the crimes committed by the groups in Iraq and Syria. These crimes are horrendous and innumerable. The commitment should be long-term; that is quite right. However, given the rather volatile situation in the area, we find it wise, so to speak, to take one year at a time. It is good if the Riksdag is allowed to take a position as and when. After all, it is the lives of Swedish men and women that we decide on when we make such decisions. Let me conclude by adding a personal reflection. I think there is a great deal to be said about the preparation of this proposal. We have had good opportunities to ask questions and to discuss with representatives of both the Government and the Swedish Armed Forces. I thank you very much for that. I therefore support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-1065	Madam President, I would like It is because of shortcomings in Swedish national infrastructure that I do not have the opportunity today to ask for the approval of a reservation from the Liberals in the composite committee. I will have to agree to motion 2015/ 16:3276 by the undersigned and others. Many speakers have been up in the speaker's chair talking about the situation and about the broad coalition against Daish. There may not be much to add to these parts. The coalition is incredibly wide and consists of more than 60 countries. To date, the coalition has carried out more than 8,000 air attacks on IS in the area. The organisation Daish has suffered, not least in recent months, under the tremendous pressure they have had to endure. However, it can be said that the air attacks so far have not made a decisive difference. The longer the time passes, Madam President, and as the situation has developed in Syria and Iraq, the more obvious it will be to an outsider that it is the fight on the ground against Daish that will be decisive. When you wonder what Sweden can do in terms of support for primarily peshmerga on the ground, you can see that what the government is now proposing and which the committee as a whole supports – a continued training effort in Iraq for another 12 months – is an excellent contribution. However, it is important to note that many countries in Europe also assist Peshmerga materially in this area. I think it was Hans Wallmark who talked about what is now called the letter of America in narrower circles. The letter contains a request from the United States as leader in the coalition to other countries for increased support. Like many other documents, the document is now subject to confidentiality in the Government Office. I can't relate to that. However, I can see, Madam President, from the contacts I have had with a large number of missions in Sweden in recent weeks, following what American think tanks define in terms of peshmergan needs and listening to the KRG, the regional Kurdish Government, that the picture is that material needs are repeatedly confirmed. This is about greater mobility. Mobility on a battlefield is one of the basic tactical elements. By high movement you can surprise. You can confuse an opponent and gain a local advantage. There is no doubt that Peshmerga lacks the means of transport and logistics needed to successfully fight Daish. It is also clear that there is a need for CBRN equipment, that is, protection against weapons of mass destruction. Not least Mrs Wallström and Peter Hultqvist have themselves, after their journey, found that Peshmerga is being subjected to attacks with both mustard gas and chlorine gas. Such equipment is lacking in large quantities, as is, of course, medical supplies. There are also clear indications that there are no supporting weapons and ammunition for them. It is impossible for a large majority of the Swedish Parliament so far to assist Peshmerga and the struggle on the ground against IS with this kind of support. Most parties say no. But, Madam President, the Liberals do not. We know that if this land operation is to be successful – and so far only the Peshmergan wants to support it – we must also support those who are there. One might ask: What is the moral wisdom of sending soldiers to another country to support a military struggle but, at the same time, not consider it possible to send material equipment in support of the same struggle? And why is it possible for Sweden to supply armored-band robots, for example, to Saudi Arabia but at the same time impossible to deliver supporting weapons to those who are struggling with one of the worst phenomena that our time has seen? Madam President, I would like At the moment, the US Secretary of State is in Moscow. He has had talks today with Foreign Sergej Lavrov and will meet, or perhaps meet right now, Vladimir Putin. What they are now planning for is a bit above the Swedish political debate. What will come when the fight against IS has been successfully conducted? I would like to emphasise, Madam President, that Daish can never be part of the political solution. They must be destroyed. Then the political, constructive discussion on the future of Syria and Iraq can begin. We have received a request not only from the United States but also from France after the attacks in Paris last month. I would like to emphasise that the signal that Sweden is now sending is not only important in the fight against Daish in Syria and Iraq, but also has an important precedent for the relations between the various Member States of the European Union. As we deal with the country that now considers itself the victim of armed attacks, we will be treated by our colleagues in the European Union in a possible future. I am also of the opinion that financing the extra contribution that I imagine Sweden will offer in response to the French request for assistance must not affect the Swedish defence. Liberals are certainly not part of the defence agreement and therefore may not need to protect it in the first place, but, Madam President, we are defending military defence. At the moment, it is important that the poor funds that Sweden has managed to give up for the reconstruction of a national dimension are not touched. I have heard several speakers use the epithet here in the speaker's chair for what is now happening in Syria and Iraq and the terrible things that Daish is doing. But I think it is only when you become very concrete that you can fully describe what is happening now. Today I read a debate article in Svenska Dagbladet. It was about a signal coming out of Mosul that Daish is now systematically murdering children suffering from Down's syndrome. Last night we could on the news, I think it was News, listen to the lawman Ralf G Larsson from Gothenburg. He had been involved in condemning two people who were guilty of murder in this area. I thought, Madam President, that it was quite touching when this older lawyer said: I have convicted in many murder trials, but I have never seen a murder committed. It was not difficult to perceive how shaken he and probably his colleagues in court were by this.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-1081	Madam President, I would like I just have two simple questions for Allan Widman. I read in the Liberals' motion, to which Allan Widman refers and calls for approval, that the Peshmergan be offered military support, including weapons. What weapons are thought to be added to the Kurds – transport vehicles are mentioned, but also supporting weapons, for example, with ammunition – and what analysis has been made of where these weapons could eventually end up?
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-1083	Madam President, I would like I think Björn Söder's questions are relevant. I would also like to say, before answering them, that I think it was a good thing that Björn Söder made a clarification regarding the Swedish democrats' involvement in Swedish actions under the UN flag or under the UN flag. I am one of those, Madam President, who believe that Sweden will eventually find it possible to contribute materially to supporting the Peshmergan. You can look at different types of support weapons. I referred earlier to my contacts with various missions here in Sweden, and I referred to the so-called letter of America. There are many different proposals, but I am not prepared to exchange material numbers here and now with Björn Söder regarding exactly what supporting weapons we have in mind.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-1085	Madam President, I would like I did not understand that I received an answer to my second question as to what analysis has been made of where these weapons might end up in the future. Allan Widman will be happy to come back to that. It should be borne in mind that although the Iraqi army is legally forbidden to operate in Iraqi Kurdistan and the Peshmergan is under regional rule, one cannot escape the fact that Peshmergan is a kind of militia party-politically linked to the Democratic Party, the Patriotic Union and whatever they call themselves. We have other, bad, examples of support for various forms of militias or other military units that have since changed sides and weapons have ended up with the enemy. The free Syrian army is a current example of this. The Western powers have made sure that they have weapons, and when they have changed sides, the weapons have fallen into the hands of Al Qaeda. We have done the analysis that we should be careful to provide military equipment in the form of weapons, because we do not know where they eventually end up. Perhaps it is another matter when there are government regular units providing weapons. Even then, even if the weapons may fall into the wrong hands, there is perhaps even greater risk of that in the case of this type of militia group. Therefore, we propose that it should not be weapons that Sweden assists with, but, for example, medical and communication equipment. Nevertheless, I would like to hear from Allan Widman what analysis has been made of the fact that these weapons cannot fall into the wrong hands, given that these are militia groups we are talking about and they are actually fighting among themselves now. There have been some conflicts internally with the Kurds.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-1091	Madam President, I would like It is true that when Sweden, regardless of the situation, has chosen to export arms to other countries in the world, it has quite often happened that they have gone astray. There are, of course, great risks in this case too. We stress in this motion that when you hand over military equipment, both war material for combat and such for non-combat, it should be done under the supervision of Swedish personnel in order, if possible, to reduce the risk that the weapons end up in the wrong places. Björn Söder says that when it comes to non-regular armies, the risks become greater. Unfortunately, it has to be said that, in this area and in this conflict, regular, state military units have also proved to be able to be disarmed very quickly, among the suspicions of Daish. There are no guarantees in these contexts. The best thing you can do is to take all the measures you can to prevent weapons from spreading to the wrong hands. At the end of the day, Madam President, politics is the art of the possible. In the present situation of the horrors that Daish is guilty of, it is a matter of choosing perhaps the least evil of several evils. I understand that the Swedish Democrats and Björn Söder think in much the same ways as we do. But my answer will be that of evil things we must choose the least evil. And the Liberals see it as being about providing weapons and equipment to those who carry out the most effective fight against Daish on the ground.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-1097	Madam President, I would like The Left Party and the Green Party have described history well here. It shows how easy it is that things don't turn out the way you want them to. It entered Libya, and the results are now being seen. IS has establishments there now. We can also see it in part two of the Iraq war, as it were. That's where you go back in. What is the effect of the matter? They were heading into Syria. That's where Russia came in. And now you have to work together. How it's gonna end, none of us know. But I definitely do not think it will be worse than in Libya or Iraq. We support the view that we should support the Kurdish Peshmerga forces. The Liberals and others here have all had wise views on this. We're a little different on the materiel side. But we agree on this. I'm not going to try to find any differences. It's good that we can agree on this. As far as training is concerned, the danger of the soldiers getting into battle is obvious, as they should be advisers, even in the far future. This means that they may well end up in battle and should therefore be well prepared for this. I believe that the Swedish men and women are. But let us be absolutely clear that it is an extremely dangerous job. Hopefully there will be no serious accidents or deaths. We all hope so. IS is something special for all of us. It's a butcher's organization. They crucify children. We've heard everything described here. The last time we've been told they're targeting children with Down's syndrome, which I'm sure is true. There are no restrictions. The slave trade is booming. It's a real terrorist organization to be wiped out, destroyed. That's it. I can't help but do a little reflection on IS in Sweden. IS is available in Sweden. We all know that. We also know that it was a mere coincidence that two of them were found. They found a flash drive, if that's true. If they hadn't filmed the whole thing themselves, they wouldn't have been judged. Without going into it, we should try to find a united front for how to do this too. According to the Swedish Security Service's analyses, perhaps up to 1,500 war criminals are present in Sweden today. When it comes to supporting the fight against IS, we can no longer allow flags to be hung with the IS symbol in Gothenburg, can we? Let's look at this together and agree on what we're going to do. I know there will soon be some suggestions. But it cannot be wrong to broaden the ground so that we can also participate. Here we have a common view in all essential respects. We believe that the cost of this should be taken outside the Swedish Armed Forces' budget. Someone asked about long-termness. This is where it's gonna have to be long-term. You can't say we're gonna have it in a year. We cannot stand here again in a year's time and say that this will be interrupted. As long as that organization works, so will we. I also think we should discuss with which vehicles and what help – perhaps UAV – we can make it easier for the forces, if we get a better picture of what they lack. We have said that there should be caution when it comes to the delivery of weapons. We think that we should increase humanitarian efforts, which we have exercised about. I don't suppose anyone's really saying anything against it. We also want efforts to be made to promote autonomy for Christians, in the plain of Nineves. It is extremely difficult in this situation, but it can not be for granted. I think, as I said, that all the essential things have been said. And I am delighted that we are united in this task, in the fight against IS.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-1109	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved. It is extremely important that we continue to support Iraq and the Iraqi people. Many of us have been following the exhausting and now long-standing humanitarian challenges in Iraq in modern times. It is about the long-standing and brutal repression of the dictator Saddam Hussein, which was challenged above all by the United States and the United Kingdom. They felt that his reign of terror was a danger even beyond the borders of the country. We also remember the Swede Hans Blix, who was given the UN mandate to try to find the alleged weapons of mass destruction. They would never be discovered and did not exist either. Yet I do not think many people want Saddam Hussein back. The Iraq War began with the coalition Operation Iraq Freedom on 20 March 2003. The war was declared officially closed on May 1, 2003. At the time, I was in the square of central Baghdad, right next to the Palestine Hotel. I had gone through the desert, after the tanks, from Kuwait to Baghdad, on behalf of UNICEF. When the news that the war would be over reached us, we could hardly believe what we heard. Shots were heard in every direction, and at times large explosions of bombs were heard. As so often, reporting on the humanitarian situation in the country was drowned by reporting on the military successes or setbacks. During these painful days of war, I visited children's homes and families that lived under the most difficult circumstances. I traveled through broken infrastructure and saw looting and lawlessness spread in the chaos of the war's dustroll. Although the Iraq war was officially declared to be concluded, in practice it was going on at varying degrees of intensity until August 2010, when the last combatants left Iraq. During that period, people continued to leave Iraq in large quantities. Perhaps it might be worth remembering these days that the then mayor of Södertälje, Anders Lago, had to go to the United States in 2008 to witness in Congress. I want to remember that he said: How is it that my city, Södertälje, receives more refugees than the whole of the United States? In recent years, a new development has escalated in this dictatorship and war ravaged country. In the rubble of dictatorship and later wars arose weak institutions, corruption, humanitarian distress, weak law enforcement bodies, political hardships and great political mistrust among the people. This has been exploited and exploited by separatist groups and terrorist organisations such as Daish, or ISIL, if you like. Today and in recent years, we see persecution taking on almost unimaginable proportions. We see the violence and abuse of people like Ya Zidia, Chaldeans, Christians, Syrians, Jews, but also the abuse of the vast majority of Muslims fleeing this terrorist organisation. They feel that their extreme interpretation of their beliefs gives them the right to abuse any other person. I have met many people in our own country who have fled the war. I think it is difficult to talk about mass immigration when you have seen what people are running from and when you meet people who have been subjected to these enormous abuses. With regard to the report we are discussing today, it is self-evident and responsible that Sweden should continue its efforts to educate and equip people with knowledge so that they can fight Daish. But Sweden should be careful and wise in its choices of how and to what extent Sweden should contribute in Iraq. Now that there has been an evaluation of the operation in Afghanistan, it is important that we go back there and reflect on whether we did right or wrong. We must not be afraid to do the great reflections. In some contexts, it may be right that we, as in Afghanistan, continue to be a great humanitarian power and do even more in that area. Elsewhere, more military action may be right. What we learned in Afghanistan was that at first we went in with far too little effort. It was far too small a effort to have a good effect. It was also something that we had to reflect on. Once we enter a country, we may have to think about the size and perseverance of the country. War does not end because our financial year ends or because our planning from a Swedish perspective ends. We must have that endurance. That is why, among other things, it is right that now that we have entered Iraq and Mali, we must have the ability to stick together, to be long-term and not to deviate from the road. However, we can reflect back and see what lessons we have learned from the efforts we have made. I would like to conclude by saying that this has international legal support. We have received an invitation from Iraq. The effort we are making there is in demand. I think we can be proud of the efforts that we are making and that we will continue to make in Iraq.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-1123	Madam President, I would like Few questions were so central to me as to why I became politically involved as the resistance to the American invasion of Iraq. The big demonstration that took place in Stockholm in 2003 was my first big demonstration. Such issues of peace and conflict have existed with me throughout my political commitment. For me, the American war in Iraq is indeed one of the great signs of difficulty in making such interventions. Little had I thought then when I joined the demonstration that today, 2015, I would be standing here in Parliament's pulpit and participating in the work of trying to clean up after the monumental failure of that invasion. Nevertheless, I support this effort because I believe it is balanced and has a good purpose. Developments in Iraq in 2015 continue to be very serious. The political, military and humanitarian challenges are great. Although limited progress is being made here and there in parts of the region, most of the basic political challenges that were the reason for the current situation remain. It made up for Isis' takeover of nearly a third of its territory. In the first nine months of 2015, some 10,000 people have lost their lives. Reports testify to continued brutality from Isis. The gross, systematic violations of human rights and the violations of international humanitarian law are widespread. As in the past, ethnic and religious minorities are the main victims. One of the victims, Mohammad Abbas, I met at Lesbos in September when he fled Iraq. He had previously worked as an interpreter for the American army. But he and his family received death threats because of association with the U.S. Army. Now he is in Mora and is seeking asylum here in Sweden. Madam President, I would like The Commission's military plan for Iraq aims to prevent ISIS's advance by training and training defence forces in Iraq. The military plan forms part of a broader strategy where there are other instruments such as diplomacy and humanitarian action. Although military action is needed for the urgent situation now, it is impossible to resolve the current situation by military means alone. Broader action is needed than that. The training effort in northern Iraq is coordinated by a staff located in Erbil. They aim to advise and train Iraqi defence forces in, among other things, arms management, medical care, defence combat, fighting in settlements and detection of improvised explosive devices. The training and advice have been very well received by the units that Sweden supports in northern Iraq. In addition to the aforementioned efforts, Sweden has also contributed with education in health care, international law and human rights as an integral part of the planning and implementation of the operation. The grant is proposed to continue to amount to 35 people on site in northern Iraq. Given the loose composition of the coalition and the changing situation on the ground in Iraq, the Swedish contribution may need to be adapted in 2016. The starting point is that the Swedish contribution's competence should be used in the best way based on the needs of the Iraqi security forces and in relation to other international training grants. The Swedish contribution of strength will continue to be under Swedish national leadership and under Swedish control. Overall, the Government's proposal to extend this effort shows a strong commitment to peace, security and human rights. Madam President, I would like Sweden cannot passively stand by and only view this human catastrophe. The people who are forced to flee their homes and who are subjected to abuse and terror cannot be left behind. They deserve help from the outside world and, like us here in Sweden, must be given the opportunity to live in security, peace and stability. The situation in Iraq is extremely serious, and the world cannot ignore the disaster that is going on. It is therefore important that Sweden acts, mainly through political and humanitarian efforts, but also by extending this effort to protect the lives and security of vulnerable people. That is why I support the proposals in the proposal.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-1138	Madam President, I would like Actually, of course, I wouldn't have asked for a reply. A lot of what Jakop Dalunde says is what I can sign. But this is more the beginning when Jakop Dalunde spoke about his previous political experiences and the great demonstration against the coalition of the willing in March 2003 in Iraq. Jakop Dalunde calls this a monumental failure. That being said, Madam President, I believe that we must try to think in terms of alternative world political developments. The question I ask myself is what the world would have been like if Saddam Hussein had been allowed to remain in office for another 12 years, if he had been allowed to continue to attack his neighbours, as Kuwait, and target gas attacks on his own people. What would Afghanistan have looked like if the Taliban had been allowed to sit for another 15 years and spread their influence in the region? Would it have been better or worse? I would even dare to say, Madam President, that I am not sure whether it would have been better for the world if Muammar Gaddafi had been left behind for a number of more years with all that his regime brought with it in terms of insecurity for people and suffering. At the time of the demonstration in Sergels torg against the coalition's entry into Iraq in March 2003, Sweden still lent military equipment for combat to, among others, the United Kingdom. We did that at the same time as there was an expert from the Environmental Party in the Ministry of Defence. I am just saying this to say that not everyone needs to think the same way, even if we are part of the same parties.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-1141	Madam President, I would like The Green Party supported the original intention of the Swedish operation in Afghanistan. We thought it was good to have an ambition to act as a peacemaker. On the other hand, we had a lot of views on how the effort was to develop and become increasingly part of the broad American effort in the war on terrorism. Nevertheless, the Green Party supported the operation in Libya. As far as Iraq is concerned, I do not rule out in any way that this parallel scenario had included any form of military component or intervention. On the other hand, there is quite little doubt that the outcome of the road chosen by the United States is a monumental failure. Then it's not that I'm sitting on some miracle solution, that here and now I could stand and say that it should have gone to exactly this and so. But if there had been a somewhat broader approach than American action, I think the outcome would have been different. If the huge sums of money that have been spent in the American invasion – the war, the occupation – of Iraq had instead been invested in humanitarian efforts and support for oppositionists in various types of pro-democracy measures, it is not entirely unlikely that it would have been possible to contribute to democracy and human rights in Iraq without the large-scale invasion and occupation carried out by the United States.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-1144	Madam President, I would like I still find myself somewhere tracking that Jakop Dalunde does not feel completely convinced that the world became worse than it would otherwise have been in that the US and coalition intervened in Iraq. I guess that's really just the purpose of my questions. It is about understanding that it is probably intellectually honest to create uncertainty about what different scenarios arise or do not arise. One thing that I also think is important to remember is that it is not just about what development became or had become in these countries depending on whether it has become an effort or not. The 1990s and the past of the 21st century have so far been a time when the efforts made, for example, in Iraq and Afghanistan have had what might be termed general preventive effects. Of course, there is a wide range of villains around the world who see what is happening – the overthrow of Saddam Hussein, Muammar Gaddafi and the Taliban – and understand that you cannot allow yourself to do anything. This general preventive role has, of course, also existed. Then, too, Madam President, we can consider the possibility of developing the welfare, security, health care and school of a country governed by the Taliban, as was the case in Afghanistan at this time. Was it even possible to bring in those tools and help the Afghan people under this authoritarian rule?
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-1147	Madam President, I would like I do not live under any illusions that the possible parallel scenarios based on the assumption that the United States had not made the intervention they did would be some kind of green utopia where everyone holds hands and sings Kumbaya. That is not the case. However, I find it difficult to imagine something worse than what actually took place. Mr Widman is probably quite lonely in his view that this was one of the better possible scenarios. I believe that most in the military-nalytic sphere are fairly agreed that this was a rather great failure, not least how, after the invasion, the Bath Party was dissolved and made large parts of the military unemployed, which then became a fairly large part of the breeding ground of what we are seeing right now. Many mistakes were made during the American operation in Iraq. This applies not only to the intervention itself, but also to how it was done and how it was followed up.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-1149	Madam President, I would like In the summer of 2014, when the Islamic State went in and took over Mosul, it became quite obvious to me and very many others, if it had not been before, that it is an absolute necessity that the front lines that stretch all the way from Khanaqin in eastern Iraq away to Kobane in northern Syria, a distance of about 1,400 miles, are protected from Islamic State attacks. In fact, behind the front lines, in the Kurdish-dominated areas, are virtually all refugees who have been cleared out by Shia and Sunni extremists, various ethnic extremes and other things during these wars. There the refugees are crowded: Assyrians, Syrians, Chaldeans, Turkmens, Arabs, Kurds, Sunniths, Shiites, Shabaker, Yazidians and so on. That is the simple reason why these front lines must be protected. The small shards left by the diversity and mosaic of ethnic and religious groups in the Middle East, those who have not yet been killed, emigrated or forced assimilation, sit and press in these refugee camps, completely terrified. The Kurds have defended these front lines with mainly light weapons against the Islamic State, which in some places has attacked with heavy weapons taken from the Iraqi army. Military protection of these front lines from the air by the coalition's air attacks is very important. That was what saved Makhmur and Erbil, by extension, from being attacked in August 2014. But we also need to be prepared to provide greater military support to enable the forces on the ground to protect these fronts and now also cut off the area around Mosul. Why is this important? Well, partly because the Islamic State would otherwise commit genocide against the people who have fled and partly because we have to learn from what happened when the Islamic State advanced. Where people could be defended militarily, there was no genocide. In places where the population could not be defended militarily, people were displaced, beheaded or hanged. There girls were sold as slaves. There people were tormented. Today homosexuals are being attacked with blindfolds from the fifth floor of houses down the street. There they have started killing children who have Down's syndrome. If this complete monster empire cannot be stopped from spreading and if we cannot stop this ideology and systematic brainwashing, which is going on in our suburbs too, from spreading out, then this world will become a much more dangerous place. We have already seen what has happened in our countries, in Paris, in Copenhagen and elsewhere. It is clear that defeating the Islamic State in Syria, Iraq and Kurdistan is a civilistic struggle. I note, Madam President, that in August 2014, when I said exactly what I am saying now, I was all alone in this house. Then it suddenly became the government's policy to set up a little bit. Now there have been requests from the United States and France, and now there have been UN calls to do more. And soon I hope that Sweden can provide greater military support, including ammunition and weapons, to these forces that defend millions of civilians, many of whom are refugees, from this barbaric threat to our civilisation that we now see.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-1156	Madam President, I would like Then why are we standing here tonight? What is the point of this debate? Could it be that the bourgeois are going to score some easy points? The Swedish Democrats may think that the wolf issue is an appropriate issue to broaden their policy with. Perhaps it is now possible to attack both immigrants and wolves. Madam President, I would like We are probably here because politics, regardless of government, has failed to create confidence and confidence in the future in rural areas. Schools are being shut down, factories are moving, these are bad roads, trains are not going. Who are we to blame for this? I think it is we politicians who should take responsibility for it. The predators have very little to do with the major challenges facing rural areas. But it is probably another issue that we will be discussing tomorrow. Madam President, I would like Politics is the most boring when it comes to creating conflicts in order to win voters and when it has no purpose whatsoever to give as a result to make a real difference. As usual, it is the wolf that stirs up emotions most, even though other predators also cause damage to individuals and despite the fact that all predators in the last 20 years have grown from threatened to today having favourable conservation status. That is something we should be very proud of. Maybe the wolf is the predator who's grown fastest in the last few years. That may also be why the wolf stirs up emotions the most. What we and this government have achieved, which the bourgeois government failed to achieve, is that we have found a hunt for wolf that we hope will strike a balance between human activity and our desire to preserve biodiversity even in the case of predators – even for future generations. People and wolves should be able to live together in the same country. It is therefore important that we do everything at all levels to make it work as well as possible. If we do not shape our policies and our hunting decisions properly, we will never appease the European Commission. If you do not understand how the Swedish legislation and regulations work, we will never get acceptance for what we decide. We want a sustainable legal system that allows our authorities to manage our predators responsibly in peace and quiet. Today we have a strong wolf tribe – beneficial conservation status, as it is said. This shows the investigations that the Government has ordered from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. Today, we have a hunting law that provides for the possibility of licence hunting and protective hunting. It is our way in Sweden to conduct this in order so that we know what is happening. The county administrative boards decide on the hunting of wolves and, if and when possible, on other predators. We don't want to change that. What we mention in our reservation is important and something that every government, whatever its colour, must take into account. Despite existing legislation, last year's hunt was inhibited by the Administrative Court in Karlstad. Then the suspension of the Administrative Court of Appeal in Gothenburg was lifted. At the moment, the question of the right of appeal is being examined by the Högsta Administrative Court. Regardless of what decision Högsta administrative court takes, each responsible government must be prepared for what is happening. Otherwise, what happens when a wolf, a lynx, or a bear attacks a herd of reindeer or enters a sheep pasture, where the reindeer keepers or sheep owners ask for a protection hunt? How are we to know that our system works and we do not have a readiness for the Högsta Administrative Court ruling? We don't know what it's gonna be. I don't think you know that either. But it is reasonable for a government to be prepared. That is something that bourgeois Members sometimes forget. It is also forgotten that, through Swedish membership of the EU, the government also has a responsibility, within the framework of the decided predatory policy, to relate to EU law. We in Sweden are now trying to increase knowledge in the EU about the Swedish model for game management with license hunting as a pillar. I am not entirely sure that the European Commission will be satisfied with the response that the government sent in in August. But our view is that the Swedish model for game management well meets the requirements of the Species and Habitats Directive. However, if the Commission has a different view, the government must also be prepared to do so. Madam President, I would like The announcement we are debating today is short-term and populist. Against this background, we are very hesitant about it. Nor can we see what action the government could take on this. We are therefore opposed to this initiative and reject the proposal as a whole, because that is nothing more than a populist, short-term way of trying to win some votes in rural areas. But this issue affects so many more.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-1169	Madam President, I would like We are here today to discuss and debate again predatory policy, especially the wolf. The wolf was extinct in Sweden a few decades ago. In a few decades it has returned, recovered and is today in Sweden to stay. The recovery is, of course, a sign that we have a richer animal life. But it also poses challenges for people in the affected areas. We believe that both humans and predators should be able to live in Sweden. That is why it is very important that we ensure at all levels that it works as well as possible, and we must have a policy that protects both humans and animals. The wolf is very vulnerable. According to the Artdatabank redlist, it is considered vulnerable. It is also covered by the EU Species and Habitats Directive. The wolves we now have in Sweden originate from five individuals. It is thus a very small genetic base to stand on. There are two more individuals who have entered Sweden, but they have not yet been able to give the stem their genes. So we have a very small genetic exchange. With the wolf being covered by the Species and Habitats Directive and being vulnerable, it is very important that it is managed in a sustainable way. We have both Swedish and EU rules to relate to. Now the five bourgeois parties of the Riksdag – the Liberals, the Moderates, the Centre Party, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats – have come together for an announcement to tell the government that they believe that the government should follow the current predatory policy, even though we have come to the conclusion in the preparation of the matter that the government does just that. The policy of predators is followed and no decision has been taken to change the current regime. So this is a precautionary announcement. I think it is very strange that you think we should take the time to do this. You can be asked for less. So we're going to have this order? Should you tie up the government when it comes to making future decisions because you might think that it will soon be another decision – because it has been read in some association's member magazine? No, I don't think so. I would strongly reject the committee initiative and instead call for our and the Social Democrats' reservations to be approved. I know that it is not problem-free with the predatory policy decided by Parliament. Neither the previous regime, before 2013, nor the new one is trouble-free. At the moment, we have two infringement cases in the EU. It is one that is about the Swedish wolf policy and Sweden's obligations under the Species and Habitats Directive, and it is one that is about what we are talking about today: access to justice. Under the current provisions of the Hunting Regulation, the County Administrative Board's decision on protection hunting and licensing of large predators can only be appealed to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. However, the decision of the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency must not be appealed. This means that according to the current hunting regulation, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency is the last instance in all these cases. This has proved to be legally questionable, and the European Commission believes that hunting decisions should be subject to judicial review. It is therefore a fact that a hunting decision taken by the county administrative boards, which must not be reviewed by national courts, is contrary to EU law. The Commission has therefore made it clear to Sweden that it is wrong if decisions on hunting for predators cannot be tried by a court. With the statement made by the Commission, the government has had the matter examined. The results of the investigation, which were submitted earlier this autumn, showed just that. The current regime is not compatible with EU law principles and is not legally secure. Now I think everyone is valiant to plug any gaps and grey areas as soon as possible. And it was a rather hasty process when it comes to referrals. There were 31 referrals that were asked and answered. 7 of these were negative. 17 were positive and felt that this is absolutely right and proper to do. I wonder what the five bourgeois parties want to achieve with an announcement other than a little attention in the media? Don't you want Sweden to have legally secure processes? Should we not comply with EU law? Apparently not. Instead, we will tie the government to adapting to the current circumstances. I do not believe that it benefits either predatory policy or the acceptance of our large predators. Wouldn't it be better if, instead of doing this, we sat down and tried to resolve the issues? How can we get greater immigration from wolves, so that we get a larger genetic pool and a safer strain? How are we going to resolve the issue of prevention so that we can live side by side? How do we create faith instead of division?
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-1181	Madam President, I would like This is the craziest report I am debating this year – yes, perhaps the craziest report I have debated throughout my time in Parliament. It is just as well to say it from the beginning, so that those of you who listen to this understand the level at which the political process can move sometimes. I'll now explain why I'm saying what I'm saying. The bourgeois parties and the Swedish Democrats refer to a memo available on the government's website. From this memo, they conclude that this could lead to something that is in danger of jeopardising the intentions behind the predatory policy decided by the Riksdag. The bourgeois parties and the Swedish Democrats are concerned that decisions on protection and licence hunting can be re-examined in court. In the court there are long processing times, it states. Please note that the government has not made any proposals! There is no proposal to relate to. There's a memo. There are articles in newspapers. But there is no government proposal. But the bourgeois parties and the Swedish Democrats certainly demand that the government should not put forward a proposal to appeal against a decision on licensing. The current system is such that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency can delegate decisions to the county administrative boards regarding license hunting. After the bourgeois parties changed the court order in 2013, decisions on protection and licence hunting can no longer be appealed to the court. We in the Left Party then voted against this proposal, because we believe that it is a good principle in the rule of law that decisions should be subject to judicial review. For this we think that we have a pretty good support in international law and in the conventions that Sweden has assisted. The bourgeois parties and the Swedish democrats complain about long trial times in our courts. Yeah, but isn't that what we're gonna change? And with the budget that is now to be put through, which you intend to vote against, the Swedish courts will receive an important addition of approximately SEK 40 – 50 million as of next year precisely to be able to shorten the processing times and carry out more effective work. Isn't that good? Isn't that the way we're going? Above all, this is the case: with this proposal, the bourgeois parties and the Swedish Democrats want the government to be prevented from making proposals that do not suit themselves. What is this view of democracy? It would be as if we in Parliament were to decide that Ulf Berg from the Moderates should not raise motions about police officers in the countryside, about working after 67 years or about berry picking. Just as Ulf Berg must be able to do so, the government has the right to make proposals. It is written in our constitution, in the form of government and in the parliamentary order. It states that both the Government and members of Parliament have the right to submit proposals for examination in the Riksdag. When these proposals are then presented, we will take a position on them, but not before. I would like to ask the Moderates, Liberals, the Center Party, the Christian Democrats and the Swedish Democrats: Why are you going against our constitution? Why should you be prevented from making proposals for review in the Swedish Parliament? Unfortunately, we have seen the procedure of stopping the government before it has acted a few times before in this House. It's usually called negative announcements. I think that's a bad way. Yes, it's nonsense, and it's in violation of the Constitution. This matter, dear fellow debaters, is called predatory policy. I really wish that was what we could discuss here, because it is so much needed. But it's not. Instead, all of us Members and also the staff of the Committee on Environment and Agriculture must spend hours on this work, which is nothing more than placard politics from the bourgeois parties. This proposal does not advance predatory policy or make it more sustainable. Above all, it does not increase legal certainty in Sweden – on the contrary. I call for this proposal to be rejected and for the Left Party's reservation to be approved 2.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-1191	Madam President, I would like This is going to be a much more interesting debate than I thought. Why have we raised this matter? Yes, for democratic reasons. It is important that the government realises that it is the Swedish parliament that decides and decides in the end. Here S, MP and V try to take cheap, populistic points and lay out smoke curtains. I am happy to take the debate on democracy. In fact, a government and a prime minister sit as long as this House thinks it is appropriate. That is precisely the question. In 2013, an alliance government bill was adopted, and that is the basis of this case. Then the alliance government also changed a regulation because in practice the decisions did not work in many cases. Jens Holm may not live in the countryside and is affected locally. But we have the example from Junsele, where reindeer farming had huge problems with a wolf couple and where protection hunting was decided. This decision was appealed, fixed in court and decided a year later, and a further protection decision had been taken. Today, most people think that these wolves no longer exist, but it has unfortunately not been regulated in a legal way. This is just one example of why we need to have a system that works in practice, because when it comes to protection hunting, it goes without saying that there must be some urgency in the case handling. I think this has been achieved. I also think that respect should be given to the ongoing legal procedure. Now there is a case before the Supreme Administrative Court for a ruling. I would rather listen to it first and then, depending on the outcome of the Supreme Administrative Court, we will take steps. It may be that during the time of the alliance government the lawyers made a correct assessment that this is the way to do it. It is still interesting that the Supreme Administrative Court has been doing this for almost a year, so it is not so terribly simple. We legislators know that. Sometimes a few precedents have to be set for us to be able to see if the raw material in the legislation ends up where we decision-makers want it. It is not that we have read this in some hunting magazine, as I understood it on Emma Nohrén. We should have some respect for the interpellation debate and answers that have been received in Parliament, and they have said that they want to make changes as a matter of urgency because they also wanted to meet the decided hunt that will take place at the beginning of next year. That's why it was so urgent. After all, there was almost no time for any consultation on the matter. Now they try to put out a fog curtain from S, V and MP and say that it is we who see ghosts in broad daylight. No. We are absolutely convinced that the government had a completely different agenda. If they had moved on then they would definitely have broken the decisions that exist in the Riksdag. We also have an announcement from last year that this particular policy should be firm. I think it is very important to show respect for the people affected by the wolf at close range. This is in many places a non-question. If you talk to those who live in Falun, Borlänge and other cities, this is often a non-question even in my county of Dalarna. But for those who get their sheep or horses grated, or, as in Gävle, if you walk your dog in the garden and the wolf comes and takes the dog or the domestic cat, which it also happens that the wolf does, it is clear that it is perceived as a problem. And then we must also be able to have a quick decision-making process in the area of protection hunting. I therefore hope that the current system will continue to apply. Should the Supreme Administrative Court reach a decision other than the lawyers of the previous alliance government, we will have to make it at that time. But then we definitely need to have a much more rapid process than before, and that can be solved in different ways. The issue is therefore much more serious. The fact that we have raised this initiative is in order for us to really establish that the Parliament's decision is valid. It was like someone said: Parliament gets the power it takes. I think it is very important for democratic reasons that we ensure that Parliament's decisions are also respected by the current government. I support the committee's proposal.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-1203	Mr President, I would like to Ulf Berg is trying to make this an issue in which the voices of some people are to weigh more heavily than those of others, where only those living in the countryside should understand this matter. I'm from the countryside myself, from Matfors outside Sundsvall. I understand very well what it is like to live in a place where public services are put down, where bus lines are withdrawn and where unemployment is spreading. I believe that this is the big problem for many people living in rural areas: it is felt that society has been dismantled. That is what we have seen during the eight years of bourgeois rule with unilateral cuts in public service to finance tax cuts. We can also see that it is precisely people in big cities who have received more money in their wallets from the policy of the bourgeois government. As far as the specific issue is concerned, I think it is quite important for us in this House to stick to what is at stake. After all, it's in the 4th chapter of the government form. §4 that both the Government and we members of Parliament have the right to submit proposals for consideration in the Riksdag. Once these proposals are in place, we will deal with them. I would like to ask Ulf Berg how he would look at whether we got a majority in this House that demanded that Ulf Berg should not present motions on berry picking or that one should be allowed to work until after 67 years.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-1208	Mr President, I would like to That is not really the issue we are discussing. We are discussing a committee initiative and not the question of silencing certain Members. Jens Holm has full freedom to stand here and debate and be of a completely different opinion from the Alliance on this issue. That's what democracy is. I would really like to put the question like this to Jens Holm. There are two decisions in this House that the government clearly ignores. On the one hand, it is ministers who have said that they want to do this again and, on the other hand, they are setting up an investigation. It's not just a memo, it's an investigation to do an analysis. The results of that investigation can hardly get out and turn around for a referral procedure. Is it safe and sound? The government must have had an incentive to get to the decided licence hunt, which will enter into force at the beginning of next year, by amending a regulation. That regulation also owns the government. But there are also means of power for the Swedish parliament to develop in these cases, as has happened in the FRA debate when the Riksdag told the government what was going on. At that time, it was Jens Holm's party and others who stated that the law of decree would be in the Riksdag and not with the government. There are different parts that can be invoked if the government does not listen to the Swedish parliament. It is surely in here that it is to be decided how decisions are made. We live in a democracy. But from what I understand, it is in Jens Holm's view of democracy only when it suits Left's purposes.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-1212	Mr President, I would like to I am not entirely sure that I expressed myself clearly enough to Ulf Berg. I'll take another turn. In this House, you say what you want. It's obvious. The good thing is that we all have the same right to make proposals. But we should also respect the Constitution and give the government the right to present its proposals. Then we relate to them, stir up motions and vote for them or vote against them. That's the order we have. You are making a proposal in which you say that the government cannot put forward a proposal that goes against your policy. I wonder what this view of democracy is. What exactly are you after? Ulf Berg himself says that you should fix according to timing, that it is important to follow the rules of democracy and so on. But if you're going to fix it according to timing, it's better to wait for a bill from the government and then wake up motions. You are upset that the appeal procedure takes a long time in our administrative courts. I agree with that. A year in the Junsele case is not okay. This is why, for the first time in a long time, we are adding more money to the Swedish Courts grant so that the courts can do better and more efficient work. Isn't that what you should do, Ulf Berg, in a democracy? There are functioning structures, but if we notice that things are moving a little slowly, they may need a little more resources. Why are you moving towards that policy?
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-1218	Mr President, I would like to It is interesting to listen to this. In the small box of the report on p. 5, it states that the committee has stated that the government should pursue its intentions. It's nothing but a yellow card to the government. If the government intends to present a proposal that goes against the Swedish parliament, the risk is that the card will change colour to red. That's what this is all about. We cannot refuse the government to make proposals. It's not here. I haven't read it like that. This is a friendly comment for the government: Hello! There is another majority in the Swedish Parliament. It would be extremely attractive if the Swedish Government could also listen to that majority. It's no harder than that. This is a much more important issue for those affected and living with the problems. It's absolutely not funny that wolf runs into kindergartens and farms, and it's not funny with constant attacks on domestication. The Swedish Parliament has given county boards the opportunity to decide on protection hunting. Then there is a point to the decision, namely that protection hunting should also be carried out. As I have said before, the issue should not get caught up in a bureaucratic process in the judicial system. When the Supreme Administrative Court ruling comes, we'll have to discuss it. I also think that we should nuance the issue of the European Union and Brussels. In fact, there is a proposal to move the wolf from Annex 4 to Annex 5, and then the wolf becomes administrative in each country. Then the discussion will soon be gone.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-1222	Mr President, I would like to It's good that Ulf Berg reads hunting magazines. There's more of us. We read hunting magazines in 2012, 2013, 2014 and also in 2015 when the policy laid down in the Chamber was part of that the hunt was inhibited in 2012, 2013, 2014 and also in 2015. Is it not reasonable that a government prepares its affairs perhaps a little better than the bourgeois government did? In fact, the hunting law was amended several times both before 2012, which inhibited the hunt, and after the predator bill, which changed the appeal procedure. Yet an administrative court could inhibit the hunt. Is it not reasonable for a responsible government to actually be prepared for what is to come? Should we sit here and watch, and then there will be a decision from the Supreme Administrative Court but the government does not know what to do? There could be three decisions. In fact, the Supreme Administrative Court may request a preliminary examination from the Court of Justice of the European Union. What do you do? You can cancel the case. Then not much happens. Or you can actually say what the Administrative Court of Karlstad said, namely that it is right and proper that the government must change the decision. In the meantime, we can't sit here without being alert. We need to know what to do.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-1227	Mr President, I would like to Indeed, I agree with Isak From's description of how it was initially during the time of the Alliance. It was a major problem that the government inherited from the then S-government, which had not got a good rule in place. Then there were a little back and forth with appeals, inhibitions and the like. In 2013, however, a well-prepared proposal was adopted by the Swedish Parliament. Then the authorities concerned were allowed to work in peace and quiet. This resulted in a decision in the autumn of 2014 to become a licence hunt at the beginning of this year. This was appealed against. I'm a resident in Dalarna. There the complainants were right, and the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency ironed out the hunt. Then the County Administrative Board had time to formulate a new application, and it went through. It is interesting that the legal situation is just as Isak From says, namely that the Administrative Court stopped the hunt, the Administrative Court of Appeal dropped on and, interestingly, the Supreme Administrative Court raised a single case that concerned a territory where the hunt was already completed. There was no discussion as to whether or not the hunt should be stopped. Sometimes you are wrong, Mr President. I will admit that after the successful licence hunt in 2015, I said that we do not have to deal with the wolf issue every other day in the Swedish Parliament. I admit I was wrong. This is because the current government started to play a role in the current rules and got the question back on the table. Both the wolf and acceptance would have been good if we could have entered a normal position.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-1232	Mr President, I would like to Isn't it true, Ulf Berg, that the announcement is part of Moderates' now clear quest to seek conflict on rural issues? The Moderates, as you know, go to frontal attacks on all that has to do with the equalization of differences. Our social democratic policy is based on smoothing out the differences that exist. The Moderates sometimes want to point out that the wolf has a strong position and that biodiversity should be protected. Isn't it reasonable that Sörmland and Dalarna actually relieve Värmland a little when it comes to predator pressure? Is it not reasonable that each government in office is prepared on the basis of any decisions that may come from the Supreme Administrative Court? How many wolves should you have in Dalarna? Ulf Berg is happy to answer the question before the Swedish Parliament how many wolves he thinks you should have in Dalarna and Sörmland. Is it reasonable, for example, to relieve Värmland a little when it comes to administrative pressure? Is it reasonable for each government to have the freedom of action it has to actually have, on the basis of any decision, an action plan for how to face this?
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-1235	Mr President, I would like to I don't think I'm going to tell you exactly how many wolves there are going to be in Dalarna. On the other hand, I fully support the fact that the favourable conservation status is 170 – 270 wolves. Then I am the first to believe that we have fewer problems the larger the geographical area we can spread the wolves on. Now there's an investigation in mid-March, I think-- or maybe even today-- about this with predatory game fences and the like and how effective it is. Perhaps it is necessary to ensure that the fences come first and the wolf then, in order to avoid the problems. One may have to think a little about where there might be chips where it is appropriate that the wolf is established. As we have had it so far, it does not work well, and I believe that Isak From agrees with me on that. Then I think you have to think outside the box. If the Swedish Parliament has decided that there should be a certain number of wolves, we must also ensure that it works as well as possible. I think there's every reason to come back to these rules. Last Friday we had an interpellation debate about how sheep owners can get into trouble and suddenly become criminal suspects because the wolf has got in. That also needs to be clarified; I think that an animal owner's obligation is to keep the animals inside the fence and ensure that they are well, and then the state may have to keep track of their animals. The wolf is a state animal. I believe, however, that we agree that a great deal needs to be done to make this work in practice.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-1240	Mr President, I would like to One never ceases to marvel at the trips around the decision-making process in terms of hunting decisions. The Swedish Democrats find it strange that the government has updated to return to a review procedure in an administrative court and not as at present at the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency when the Supreme Administrative Court has not yet clarified the issue. We do not know when the answer will come, and it is uncertain in which direction it is leaning. I'm sure everyone who understands this understands that. However, whatever the outcome of the Supreme Administrative Court, this issue must be resolved. Returning to the same decision-making process as in the past, with appeals and non-wolf hunting, is impracticable and unthinkable if we are to have any efficiency in this administration. It destroys all forms of administration. Should it nevertheless prove to be contrary to EU law, then other solutions need to be discussed. This is the case – if there is a problem, solutions must be discussed, and I hope that we will get there regardless of the outcome. Returning to a system that more or less made hunting wolves impossible three years in a row, I think, would be a big fiasco. Today's system, in which the County Administrative Board's decisions are appealed to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and where the process can be conducted in a legally secure and efficient manner, cannot simply be replaced by the old system in which decisions were fixed in too long court proceedings. In the old system, the final decision came long after the proposed hunting period had expired. In practice, it meant stopping all wolf hunting, and in practice it will mean that there will be no hunting that year. If we heard the information in committee, the government's own ministry would also seem to defend the haste and the difficulty of enabling a yes decision by not directly problematizing the constant delays. Instead, it is believed that the need for hunting is out of date when the hunting season is over. So when the decision was made, there was no need for hunting because the time was up. It is also a way of reasoning. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's recently published study Analysis and account of how the socio-economics are affected by a wolf population that has favourable conservation status in Sweden is indeed very much in reality – in any case in view of the reality the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's investigators seem to be based on. In this respect, it is argued that there is no significant economic impact from wolf on activities and industries. Dogs, cancelled hunts, unpaid working hours, fences, clearing under wire and more – there is quite a lot that is affected. It is about time and economy as well as quality of life. After all, the reality is that people express anxiety and disappointment about the deterioration of quality of life. All of us who live in this area know that. One is concerned about the safety of domestic animals and hunting dogs, as well as their children, out in the rural counties. This could be about children standing out in the dark waiting for the school bus and all. It's not always safe. Even if no such things have happened in modern times, you can never know what is happening. That's how it is. The feelings and experiences of the rural population, recreational value of hunting, depreciation of properties, hunting rights and such things seem to lack value in the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's analytical report. We believe that, by extension, we must regain power from the European Union on these issues. We are opposed to the EU dictating Swedish game management. Sweden already had before EU entry a game management that the rest of the world could watch with envy, and we do not directly see any added value in the EU dictating the conditions for Swedish game management. We believe that the national parliament should always have the last word and that the government should therefore clearly work to ensure that Sweden regains decision-making power on the issues covered by the Species and Habitats Directive and the Birds Directive. The Swedish democrats' policy seeks to reduce conflicts and problems between predators and people in rural areas. It is very important and urgent for the rural population, not least. Those affected should not be forgotten on this issue. All the large predators must be managed responsibly, and the combined predatory pressure must be maintained at reasonable levels throughout the country. Now, as we know, it is very concentrated in certain parts of the country. This applies in particular to the western part of Svealand – the central administrative area. The management aims to keep the numbers of predators at an appropriate level as too large strains ultimately repel the predators themselves. Perhaps we have seen this not least in northern Värmland, where several territories have disappeared. Some say and believe that this may be due to poaching, but there is just as much reason to believe that it is because there is no more game. As I said, the concentration of predators is very disturbing in some parts of the country. Where previous years have been able to hunt, outdoor life and animal husbandry, one can no longer feel the sense of security and freedom that one once felt. Instead, one is more concerned about the safety of one's hunting dog and domestic animals. Here we feel that the government parties are failing the concerns of rural people. It is simply not taken seriously. You keep looking for new ways to make it harder, stall and stop the hunt for wolves. If there's no way to go to court, you want to set up investigations to investigate. The inhabitants of rural areas may be a special breed, which often holds on to traditions. For example, elk hunting is a tradition that is often sacred in the innermost forests. In Värmland, however, the hunt is really threatened. The elk tribe has decreased dramatically. In a few years it has decreased by 40 per cent according to the statistics. Over 7 000 moose were shot a few years ago, and now they are down to about 4 000 moose. It's a dramatic decrease. Some hunting teams may cancel the hunt. The wolves took as many moose as the hunters shot. It's an elk strain in free fall. It is difficult for hunters to pursue traditional hunting when they cannot release their dogs in the same way as before without constant concern. Rural dwellers, owners of domestic animals and hunters in the affected areas are saddened. We have to listen to what they have to say. We can't just ignore people's everyday concerns. EU law, the Aarhus Convention and the Species and Habitats Directive in all honour – Sweden's predatory policy must, of course, comply with the international obligations to which we have committed ourselves. We also see this as self-evident. However, the Supreme Administrative Court is in the process of examining this particular issue, and we do not know what the verdict will be. We believe that the decided predatory policy, decided by the Parliament in December 2013, should continue to apply. It called on the government in an announcement to complete as late as April 2015. This also means that the decision-making system for protection and licensing is maintained as it is now. That is why we urge the Parliament to once again urge the government to pursue the course of the decided predatory policy.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-1256	Mr President, I would like to Runar Filer, what's the government proposal you're talking about? Is there a proposal from the government to the Swedish parliament for any change? In the speaker's chair, you mentioned several times the government's proposal. I would like you to tell everyone what proposal you are referring to.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-1258	Mr President, I would like to I referred in particular to the decisions that we have taken and which are not respected and followed. These are constant investigations, although there are decisions to be made. There is a parliamentary decision that the selective hunt should continue, but you try to stall and make it more difficult, and you initiate new investigations all the time. It's a big problem. Decisions are not being fulfilled. You're always making bumps. Now, for example, we want to – at least we have talked about it – return to the decision-making process that existed in the past, despite the fact that the ruling by the Supreme Administrative Court is not yet clear. We do not know how it will go, but attempts are being made to anticipate it by returning to the old order of decision, which made hunting impossible in 2012, 2013 and 2014. It's pretty unworkable, like I said. This will cause a lot to be done in rural areas because the problems experienced by the population will not be dealt with.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-1260	Mr President, I would like to I note that Runar Filer refers to assumptions and rumours. It is not a question of proposals. It is still about what I said in the speaker's chair, namely that the Swedish Democrats want to broaden their policy. Now they want to blame the wolf too. Now it's not just about other immigrants. Moreover, we also need immigrant wolves. We should also discuss this. If we had had a situation, it would have been reasonable for this debate to be about why the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency said no to the application from the County Administrative Board in Jämtland County to hunt 13 wolverines. But the situation of the Sami in this House is usually quite insignificant. I didn't even hear Runar Filer touch any predator other than the wolf. His speech was only about the wolf. The predator bill is about all predators and opportunities. It would have been reasonable for such a debate to be about the situation of the Sami – how the Sami should be able to manage their traditions, run their reindeer husbandry and also be able to manage the predators that exist in the reindeer grazing area – but we are not discussing this at all in this House. Otherwise, those who come after me in the debate will be happy to update me on those issues.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-1264	Mr President, I would like to The reason why the Swedish Democrats highlight this issue is that we are a party with a strong rural profile. It is very important for the rural population that someone dares to highlight these issues. When the government parties do not, but rather make it more difficult, it is very important that there is also a counterpart – a counterparty that currently has a majority in this Parliament. I think you have to respect that, just as Ulf Berg said. Then there is little rhetoric to say that we want to attack both wolves and immigrants. We are not attacking immigrants; we are attacking immigration policy. Isak From knows that very well. We want a responsible immigration policy as well as a responsible predatory policy. We do not mention the Sami at all. It has a lot to do with the fact that there is no wolf problem up there. That is, above all, what this debate has focused on. Of course, it's just as big a problem for them and their nutrition that there's wolverine up there. We also realise this, although it is not the population we are talking about here but more wolf policy and the legal system that has made the wolf situation more difficult. If we finally have a decision in court, whatever it may be, we hope that this will be rectified. If there is a decision one way or the other, neither I nor you, Isak From, but it is important that we have other solutions if it is not what one or the other party thinks.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-1268	Mr President, I would like to As I see it, it is with a split tongue that the representatives of the government stand in the speaker's seat and are evil at the announcement that we are discussing this evening. On the one hand, it is believed that the government is following the parliamentary decision on a sustainable predator management that was clubbed here in the Chamber in 2013. On the other hand, new investigations are being set up and proposals are being prepared that actually undermine the foundations of the policy set out by Parliament in 2013. My friends, this worries people in many parts of our country, especially those who have activities in areas that house our large predators. Of course, representatives of the government do not see the problem that I can clearly see. And, of course, we do not want to recognise the internal conflicts that exist between the two government parties on this issue. However, the government side has another argument on this issue, and it is about Sweden having to comply with EU law. Of course it is. If any political system is to work, we must be able to rely on both us and them to follow what we agree on. This is also the case in the EU system. If we decide on common rules, they must also be followed until we jointly amend them. If I have understood correctly, it is in order for Sweden to comply with EU law that the government set up a number of investigations this spring, all of which are aimed at changing the current regime for predatory policy. What is interesting, however, is that there are still no concrete decisions, evidence or actions from either the EU or any other body saying that we need to change it. However, as I said, there are a number of processes going on – processes that the government now seems to have the intention of bypassing instead of what is customary decision-making, namely waiting for as good a basis for decision-making as possible. Mr President, I would like to Perhaps the most obvious is the question of changing the order of the courts. I and the government that I was part of had for several years seen how decisions on protection hunting and licence hunting were appealed and landed in a court circus, which made it impossible to execute both protection hunting decisions and licence hunting decisions when decisions came about a year after the planned hunting period. The possibility of appeal is, of course, grounded, and it must exist. But society must also be able to process and deal with these matters so quickly that decisions can be implemented. If we are to have faith and respect for decision-making in our country, it must be done in such a way that it works for ordinary people in reality. It goes without saying that if you have to wait a year for a hunting decision, the conditions for why you wanted the decision from the beginning have been changed so that it could not have been implemented. The government that I belonged to thus changed this order so that the County Administrative Board's decision on protection hunting and license hunting could be appealed to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. Why now? I'm sure someone's wondering. Our authorities act independently and follow similar procedural rules as the courts. With a process in the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, we get a handling of an authority that has knowledge of the subject and that can make decisions quickly and legally. The government obviously wants to change this now. The government seems to want to go back to the order we had earlier when the decisions were appealed to the courts and where it last came about that the decisions became entrenched in lengthy and lengthy legal proceedings. They want to change this before ongoing proceedings are completed, including at the Supreme Administrative Court. You want to do that before you have all the facts on the table and before you have an adequate basis for decision. Not only this – the government cannot wait for clear answers. Once you have decided to change something, it should happen as soon as possible. Instead of sending out the proposals for referrals, the government calls for a consultation meeting. The Government declares both in the media and here in Parliament's pulpit that the hunting of wolves this winter should be subject to appeal to the courts. Mr President, I would like to Representatives of the government parties have stated during the debate that the government is following the decision on sustainable predatory management decided by the Riksdag in 2013. What, then, is the purpose of the government's own investigations and preparation of proposals that are put in place and speeded up so that decisions can be taken before, for example, the Supreme Administrative Court gets black and white what actually applies to the appeal issue? Parliament's decision applies. With regard to predatory management, we are not only pointing this out by today's decision; the government also received an announcement this spring addressed to it with the same meaning. Unfortunately, the government does not seem to heed this, but continues its stressful processes. These are processes that, as I understand it, aim to change today's current order. That's why we in the Alliance took this initiative because the government doesn't seem to take Parliament's opinion on the matter seriously enough. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I have now allowed myself to be quite technical in my speech. And believe me – the issue of predator management is for any lawyer really a rule complex to put your teeth in. It often becomes a matter of principles, processes, laws and rules. But finally, this is about what it actually means to people in their everyday lives and activities.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-1281	Mr President, I would like to Now we have heard Eskil Erlandsson beating his chest for the predator policy that he was involved in pushing through – a sustainable predator policy. It is incredibly thorough made and so well formulated that it should not be a problem for us to follow it, apparently. Nevertheless, the investigation that you do not like has found that the appeal ban is not compatible with fundamental legal principles. The prohibition of appeal is considered incompatible with the principle of effective national remedies and the principles of the effectiveness of EU law – I had to read before there. This applies to the so-called principle of efficiency. In addition, it is considered to be possibly contrary to the principle of equivalence. If predatory policy is now so well-composed, you should have been able to anticipate the problem. If the appeal process, when it only goes to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, is such a central part, I find it strange that there is only one sentence about it, on p. 52 in the bill. There is no mention of the consequences of the existing legal system or of the consequences of the amended proposal. Did you know, when you adopted this predatory policy, that you would have an EU infringement case – another one for those who already existed?
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-1285	Mr President, I would like to In my opinion, the government that I was part of created a policy that also works for people who live and have activities in the areas that house the large predators. What had been in force in the past, in my opinion, did not work, inter alia, because the procedural matters took far too long. What do you do? It tries to make comparisons with a system that actually works. For example, we have this in the field of agriculture – an area with which I am well acquainted. There it is often the case that a County Administrative Board decision is appealed and reviewed by another authority, which is also independent both from the first authority and from the government. It is not unusual that we have authorities that test and other authorities that review decisions. We did this in this case to get a policy that worked in reality for people who live and have activities in the areas that house the big predators, Mr President.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-1288	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Eskil Erlandsson! But the investigation shows that there have not been such long processing times. There has been talk of a case where it has taken over a year, and we can all regret that. But in the vast majority of cases the question has been settled in substance in a few days, and it has worked anyway. We are dealing here with an animal, a species, which is regulated in the Species and Habitats Directives and in the EU rules that accompany this. One cannot really compare this with the rules that apply to other things in agriculture. It is clear that hunting decisions should be subject to judicial review. Now the government has taken responsibility, because it is important that we can live together – human beings and predators. We must have a responsible policy that will enable people and predators to live side by side. But instead of holding on to a solution that turned out not to be a solution, and which according to the proposal does not even seem to be directly thought out – it is a sentence, as I said, on p. 52 – it would be better to try to find solutions to how we can get a better genetic material and can live and live side by side with the wolf. This government is adding additional funds for the protection of domestic animals, compensation for carnivores and research into how we can move forward. We really should move forward together instead of standing here debating a proposal for something that has not yet happened. A preventive announcement is absurd. I really hope we won't have to do that in the future. How do you view this with the preventive measures and how to proceed without stomping into the same hole, Eskil Erlandsson?
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-1293	Mr President, I would like to In our country we have for centuries independent, independent authorities. It is not very common with the type of administrative authorities that we have here in other parts of Europe. Hence, the knowledge of our management system in many other parts of Europe is poor and sometimes even non-existent. Believe me, I know this from my own experience. Then it is a matter for a government, regardless of its colour, to tell us that this is how we have it in our country, and these independent authorities actually act as courts. That is the system we have, and it works in other areas. Why, Emma Nohrén, would it not work in this area with the expertise, independence and speed that our authorities can deliver in relation to the sometimes rather sluggish judicial system? It should be added that in the past there were several possibilities for appeal, which meant that some hunts did not happen at all because the decisions were taken years after they were actually to be implemented. Some courts did not even say what the verdict would be because it was thought that the time had expired and it was therefore unnecessary to examine the question. In fact, I do not think that the second question raised is part of this debate.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-1296	Mr President, I would like to I am sorry, Mr Erlandsson, but your credibility is not the greatest in this area. In a government position, the Center Party left the walkover in rural question after a rural question. I would like to ask Eskil what happened before 2012. We are mainly discussing wolf here, and I do not really like it, because I think we should discuss all predators. The Eskil government changed the question of rights of appeal. They were in and changed in the hunting law on the law of justice. Did you conduct a thorough investigation before you did it? Or were there differences within the government? In fact, perhaps it was Carl Bildt who came and said that the EU does not like the procedure and that more people need to be able to appeal the decisions. Actually, that's what happened. In 2012, 2013 and 2014, this was appealed. Then this was prepared very carefully. It was prepared so very carefully in the predator bill that it was a sentence in the bill that said it would change. It is reasonable that Eskil, who was then a rural minister, had a readiness for what could happen in 2015 when the Administrative Court of Karlstad actually inhibited the hunt, despite the careful preparation of a sentence in the predator bill that Eskil signed and sent to Parliament. Please tell this House and all the listeners: What happened? How did you prepare this?
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-1301	Mr President, I would like to There was a ruling that we had been waiting for, in which it was announced that the so-called Aarhus Convention is applicable, which basically means that a number of environmental organisations that have existed for a certain period of time have a right of appeal in these decisions. We didn't deny them that. We gave them that right of speech. Mr President, I would like to Let me put a counter-question to Isak From. Did the Social Democrats not pay attention to the positive change that we made in the 2013 bill to simplify and ensure that decisions could also be implemented? I even believe that the Social Democrats applauded this. Now you have fallen to little for your government colleagues, the Green Party. You have laid your plate on the ground, because apparently someone has promised you to change the order of the courts, and this before a court has established whether the system we have in our country can be what it is or not. If a change is made in this area, I would like to promise Isak From that we will have to make major changes in our decision-making in this country, including in the field of agriculture. It is often the county administrative board that takes the-facto decisions that can be reviewed by, in this case, the Swedish Agriculture Agency, which is a parallel authority to what the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency is in this case.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-1305	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Eskil! I think it was very clear. Yes, the Social Democrats stood up for the majorit ether of the content of the predator pro position. I think we thought the government had carefully investigated this. I think we thought the government was ready for what could happen. Even this time, just as it was under the bourgeois government, the government parties have different starting values. We have different things that we value differently. We value the long-term sustainability and credibility of the management both from a biodiversity perspective and from a management perspective so that rural people, nature organisations, the wolf, the bear, the wolverine, the golden eagle and so on can feel: We trust this; this is probably the case. We want to get away from what the bourgeois government was doing and changed a little here and there and then said: Wow, it wasn't supposed to be like this.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-1308	Mr President, I would like to If you want to do things thoroughly, you should not have consultation meetings where you call together a large congregation that has an hour to present its opinion. Instead, you send out the proposal for a referral and give organisations and citizens in Sweden the opportunity to have an opinion for a couple of three months. In this case, however, so desperate was the rush that a meeting had to be held for a few hours rather close to the dispatch of the summons. Surely it is not doing things in a credible and sustainable way if you want to make a change, as the Social Democrats have apparently promised the Green Party to do. That is what we want, as I have said several times, to counter through this announcement. It gives a sense of insecurity to people affected, and it is frustrating to listen to them. I think Isak From agrees with me when I say this. It is frustrating to listen to people who live with these large predators and have activities in these areas. Let us unite in decisions that hold for too long a future. Do not change what actually works.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-1310	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved, if no one has done so before. I'm not going to review what's crazy or not when it comes to announcements. I think I can come up with several things that were far crazier than this from the time we had reversed roles, under the alliance government. I think that Jens Holm takes the lead when he talks about these issues. And whether the question is small or large depends entirely on who you ask. I am not affected by this in my home country. There's a little question there. A survey on the wolf issue showed that it was significantly larger among center-partisan women in western Värmland than among younger environmental partners in the South. Of course it's that way. But that does not mean that the question would be good or bad. I agree with my alliance colleagues Ulf Berg and Eskil Erlandsson. There will of course be some repetitions, but I will try to have a different angle. For the Liberals, the starting point of the 2013 parliamentary decision is important. Apparently, we agree on that. It was then said that the long-term goal of predatory policy would be to achieve and maintain favourable conservation status in accordance with the Species and Habitats Directive, while keeping domestic animals is not significantly impeded and socio-economic considerations are taken into account. I think we should talk about them all here. There is, of course, a conflict of objectives that needs to be dealt with in the best possible way. The predatory policy decided on in 2013 had it as its goal. In the case of predator management, and everything else for that matter too, it is important to ensure favourable conservation status. Another aspect of the legislation is that there should be acceptance among those concerned; they should think that there is legitimacy in the decision. Legislation that does not have it has difficulty in operating fully. One of the key elements of the decision taken in 2013 also meant that decision-making could be further regionalised. This brought the people concerned closer. It has not been mentioned here before. But it was an important part. The county boards that have now been delegated make decisions based on knowledge of the area they decide on. One of the key elements is that decisions were moved closer to those affected by this in their daily lives. Mr President, I would like to The debate is not really about that. We have had other debates about the wolf's conservation status. This is about how we handle decision-making. The problem in the process has been that the government has not given any clear information as to why they want to change the current regime, despite the fact that work has been going on in committee. Do they change because they have to? Or do they want to make changes anyway? Some members of the government here give the impression that you have to. Others want to change anyway. We did not get clear information about it during the preparation that was going on. Liberals are, of course, fully aware that the European Commission is running two infringement cases against Sweden. There is also an ongoing review by the Supreme Administrative Court of a decision by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency on the admissibility of licence hunting, although it may not be appealed under the hunting regulation. We think it goes without saying that decisions in these processes should be postponed before we decide on changes. But maybe it's the way you want change anyway. EU law works in such a way that we get a respite. Nevertheless, we gained good knowledge of this during the preparation process. There were speculations about fines and other things. But it was absolutely clear that Sweden will have the respite to change our way if EU law says that we do not follow it. But the question fell on it. If it were to come to the point that we – now there will be some speculation here – still have to change a system that we think works quite well, it is not good enough to have the procedure that we have had now, with brief invitations to consultation meetings, which Eskil Erlandsson mentioned. There must then be an in-depth dialogue with those concerned. This applies to both individuals and interest groups. It is precisely a question of legitimacy. Speeding up creates suspicion. Whether this is silly or not, we may be allowed to discuss, Jens Holm. It does not feel good that these expressions are used when we present proposals to the Swedish Parliament.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-1323	Mr President, I would like to I said this is a stupid suggestion. I could also have said that it is a totally non-material and perceptive proposal. That's exactly what I think. When we do a solid job, take the help of our committee staff, call on us the representatives of the government and our expert authority to deal with issues that are concrete and that make a difference to people. Now there is no concrete proposal from the government. There are articles in newspapers, and there is an investigation that has given up a memo. But there is no concrete proposal. I do not think that a proposal should be made on which proposals the government cannot make, even before the government has made a proposal. It is usually called negative announcements when a majority in this House tries to stop the government before they even act. That is what I meant to be contrary to the form of government. In fact, it states that the government has the right to present concrete proposals to the House. Then we'll take a stand on them. This is not concrete, parliamentary or serious treatment. This kind of play– that's what it is– I think undermines confidence in what we're doing in here. You spoke about the reference level for wolves, Lars Tysklind, and the previous bill that we in the Left Party voted against. We thought that the span you proposed at the time was completely unscientific. What scientific basis is the span of 170 - 270 wolves?
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-1328	Mr President, I would like to I didn't mention reference levels. But I can answer that question anyway, although the debate is not really about it. When we had that discussion, the Liberals felt that the number might not be the most important. The most important thing was to have a strong, genetically healthy wolf strain with favourable conservation status. Nevertheless, we made the assessment that it may be quite reasonable for it to be within that range, at 170 – 270 wolves. It also has to do with what immigration you can have and so on, as we have discussed. But today's discussion is not really about that. Jens Holm brought up the form of government. Yes, the government has the right to submit proposals to the Swedish parliament. But there were announcements as late as April. It is a clear signal to the government that there is no majority in the Swedish parliament to change the current management of predators, unless something happens. If we do not have to change the administration, we think this works well.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-1331	Mr President, I would like to I mentioned the reference level 170 – 270 wolves that you proposed in your 2013 bill and which were voted through in Parliament. I believe that this level is not based on scientific evidence. It was completely contrary to the rigorous, democratic and inclusive work of the Wolf Committee. A very comprehensive proposal was made just a few months before you received your proposal in Parliament. It was you yourself, Lars Tysklind, who talked about that it was so important that the wolf should have a favorable conservation level. Then I think that we in Parliament should not blow out any figures that we think sound good and that ensure that you can continue hunting wolf for many years to come. This must rest on a scientific basis. It was just such work that the Wolf Committee had been doing for a long time. You threw that work into the trash can, and I find that very regrettable. What you're doing with this announcement is saying to the government-- and I'm not in any way a representative of the government-- what it's allowed to do before it's even come up with a proposal. I think it is important that we safeguard the procedures that we have here. Otherwise, I believe that in the long term we are undermining confidence in what we are doing. I think it is wrong to say to the government, before it has even made any proposal, what it cannot do. Once the government has made a proposal, I respect you and also my own right as an opposition politician to criticise, to exercise and to try to change it. But to go out with negative announcements and try to stop things before they even come about, it's just to confuse people and undermine confidence in what we do, to be honest.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-1336	Mr President, I would like to I would like to assert our right to make an announcement. Jag said at the beginning of my speech that under the alliance government, Jens Holm can probably find announcements of a negative nature. I, who sat on the Committee on Transport, was involved in this several times, supported by the Left Party without shaking the cuffs. I think we can leave it behind to review what is foolish and what is not. The government has the right to make proposals, and we have the right to propose announcements; we can agree on that. I do not think that we are preventing the government from presenting its proposal, but then the government knows at least what policy there is a majority in favour of in the Swedish Parliament. Reference values are not what we are discussing today. When it comes to scientific basis, we can well, Jens Holm, agree on the wolf tribe has developed positively in this country. The tribe started from zero and is now up to a number of hundred individuals. What we in the Liberals saw as the biggest problem was genetics, the need for immigrant wolves. Let's both think that's a good thing. I still think that this announcement has its highest relevance in this context.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-1341	Mr President, I would like to I call for approval of the committee initiative, which means that Parliament announces to the government that it should pursue the intentions behind the predatory policy that Parliament has decided. When it comes to protection hunting, it goes without saying that it is urgent to implement the decision. It is not appropriate for long appeals in courts. The investigation that the government has commissioned has presented a proposal that means that decisions on protection hunting should be re-examined in court. The question of hunting for the large predators is ultimately about the possibilities to conduct animal husbandry in Sweden. If we want to eliminate Swedish animal husbandry, which is primarily in the world in terms of animal welfare, environmental considerations and the least use of antibiotics, which enable open landscapes and biodiversity, then we will make it more difficult for animal owners to take care of their animals. Then we can follow the government and its investigators, suggestions and memos. But, Mr President, if we want sustainable Swedish animal husbandry and food production, then we must listen to what animal owners themselves say about how they experience their situation, what the consequences are – not only economic but also psychological and social – when they are forced to take care of the bloody cadavers from their own animals. We have been able to take part in terrible stories in various media around our country, in Torsås, Aspås outside Krokom, in Lesjöfors, in Rasbo outside Uppsala, in Molstaberg outside Gnesta and in Älmhult. It's just a pick of affected animal owners during this year. The government wants to increase the influence of the courts over predatory policy. This would be unfortunate. In order for humans and predators to coexist, different balances between conflicting interests are required. It's about how we weigh things like conservation status, conservation considerations, biodiversity, property rights, economic and social values, quality of life, democratic impact opportunities and so on. Mr President, I would like to The Alliance government left a well-thought-out bill on predator policy in 2013. It is regrettable that the Social Democrats now want to allow the Green Party to change this well-balanced policy. This risks leading to increased friction. In the long run, it harms the chances of sustainable coexistence between humans and predators. The main success factor for viable predator strains is the acceptance of people in the immediate area. This is confirmed by the Wolf Committee, which, in its 2013 study report SOU:60, stressed that a long-term sustainable predatory policy needs to better balance the needs of rural industries, including hunters, and biodiversity conservation measures. The Committee considered that the number of predator attacks on domestic animals in any part of Sweden should not be so high as to make domestic animal husbandry significantly more difficult or impossible. In the report, the study also wrote that it is very important for popular acceptance and a central part of a functioning administration that the responsible authorities can take rapid protection hunting decisions. From a democratic perspective, it is of course important that the government respects the announcements made by the Riksdag. For us Christian Democrats, it is also important that decisions on hunting predators are taken close to the people affected by the decisions. That is why we are committed to the decentralised management of the predators.
i-a0f13767aa7060d1-1351	Mr President, I would like to Having heard more or less engaged speeches from the speaker during this debate, I note that the knowledge of what has been said here in the autumn is not very clear among all Members. I have heard Isak From ask rhetorical questions about where the proposal is. On 17 November, I had an interpellation debate with Minister for Climate and Environment Åsa Romson. I quote from the Minister's interpellation response: a government's intention is to ensure that decisions on hunting for wolves can be appealed to the courts this winter. The Minister's written interpellation response to me cannot be interpreted more clearly than that. We also followed a number of consultations on what this means in practice. I did not receive an answer when the government intends to take this decision. The government will not present this to the House. The government has the full right to make this decision itself. My question is: will this be done before the licence hunt can take place in the coming season, that is, in a few weeks' time, or will any further season be awaited? The question is not whether the government intends to do this, but when. It is therefore extremely relevant that the majority of the committee has agreed on this initiative, that it clearly identifies what the majority in this House is in favour of, that it defends the decision of December 2013 and that it defends the current order of appeal and appeals to the government not to change it. What has happened during the autumn is, as we have heard before, that there have been a lot of people going and thinking about what conditions there are for future license hunting. What is the long-term perspective and sustainability? The confidence capital of the current government has been nibbled at the edges during the autumn, when they have engaged in questioning and initiated investigation work that opens up new questions when we finally have an administration that has come into use. As a Heater I know what practical problems it means to have too high the presence of wolf in a population on a fairly limited geographical area. Does Isak From and others here believe that it is reasonable for a county to carry more than half of Sweden's total population of wolves? Can we expect clarity when it comes to not changing the order of the courts? The practical consequence of the government's decision will be that it will lead to appeals. This was the case last winter, and they were rejected by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. However, they will automatically lead to further appeals, which in turn will open up to the fact that there will be no enforcement. Then growth will increase, and we know the socio-economic effects of this. We know the consequences we have to bear locally. We know the conditions for sheep breeding and sheep farming and for other animal husbandry. We know what it's like to run and hunt a cattle that after several days out in the woods is quickly fertilized because it's frightened by the wolf. That's how it is in the countryside. We know that in large parts of Värmland we have a third as large a shooting of moose as a few years ago. I really appeal to you who represent the government parties. I hope that you will do everything you can to ensure that the current order of the courts is defended, so that there can be a long-term clarity on these issues, and that results are also achieved in practice.
