i-SNEkEMuYsXXbkKDqVijmwG	I request that His Majesty the King declare the Parliamentary Session open.
i-a77cfae31b89a135-0	Mr President, I would like to Honourable Members of the Swedish Parliament! Today we gather again. I always feel very serious when I stand here to explain the Parliamentary Session opened. You elected representatives of the people of Sweden are now to take a fresh look at your delicate task. Before you lies responsible work. The decisions you make will affect the conditions for many in Sweden, now and in the future. In recent weeks, the number of people on the run has increased dramatically. It is a tragedy that has touched all of us emotionally. It has created a new awareness of the living conditions of the people who have been forced to leave their homes, an understanding of what it means and who we were unable to absorb in the past. We see a migration away from abuse, under dangerous circumstances and where little children hold their parents hard in their hands. This is an unexpected development that was difficult to predict just a few years ago. Not since the end of World War II have so many people been on the run. This year we have noted that it is 70 years since the end of World War II. This tragedy has greatly shaped the lives of generations in our part of the world. What will the world look like in 70 years? What will it look like for our children and grandchildren in 2085? How hard is it to tell the future? We realize that if we look at what we thought about the future just 70 years ago, 1945. At the end of the war, a war - tired world said: Never again war! The newly formed United Nations was seen as a guarantor of world peace. There was a belief in the future, not least thanks to all the new innovations that had followed in the wake of the war: reaplan, penicillin, radar, computers and synthetic materials. In retrospect, many of the post-war future versions seem naïve. Things didn't turn out the way they thought they did. Sweden's need for computers, for example, turned out to be greater than the total of one or two that they thought would then be quite sufficient. How, then, can we prepare our children and grandchildren for a future world that we know little about? Well, we can prepare them to handle change. All we know for sure is that the world will continue to change. In a globalised world, we must train future generations to become world citizens. We can, among other things, provide them with knowledge of different forms of society, other cultures, languages and religions and an understanding of how societies and cultures have developed and changed. We can convey our long tradition of democracy and human rights as an obvious basis for our society. We can also talk about certain basic rules for all human association, such as being tolerant, considerate and compassionate. Everything you want the people to do for you, you should do for them as well. ..................................................... Albert Einstein is said to have said that he never worried about the future because it will come soon enough. But there is every reason to ask: What future do we want? Perhaps this is particularly true of you, Members of the Swedish Parliament. The future is a country that has no map. But many of the decisions that you make here in the Swedish Parliament put a road network on which we will travel forward. Everyone knows that we also face major challenges in terms of our environment and that our children and grandchildren will answer for how we took on this task. As far as our environment is concerned, we are now at a crucial stage. Our natural resources are not endless, and there are many warning signs. There is still time to turn into a sustainable society. But it requires action now. Against this background, we look forward to the climate meeting that will soon be held in Paris, COP 21. Let us hope that this meeting will lead to lasting progress and that we in Sweden can make important contributions to that work. Mr President, I would like to How to deal with the refugee situation is a joint responsibility. There is a strong will to help, to be a fellow human being. Let us take this feeling to heart and work together to find solutions to help people in need. Perhaps this new insight into Sweden has brought us closer together. Mr President, I would like to Honourable Members of Parliament! With these words, I wish you all the elected representatives of the people of Sweden the power and wisdom of your responsible work to carry our nation forward into the future. We hope for a favourable development for Sweden and for all the people who live, live and work in our beautiful country. We will follow your work with great interest and commitment during the new year. With these words, I hereby declare the opening of the 2015/16 Parliamentary Session.
i-a77cfae31b89a135-17	I request Prime Minister Stefan Löfven to make a declaration of government.
i-a77cfae31b89a135-18	Your Majestys! Your Royal Highnesses! Mr President, I would like to Honourable Members of the Swedish Parliament! What's the blue-yellow flag supposed to symbolize? As polarisation increases and the worry spreads, we need to gather around which Sweden we want. What do we want to tell our children and grandchildren about the society in which they grow up? What do we want to describe when we go abroad and get questions about our country? What do we want Sweden to stand for? I believe in a Sweden that we create together that is slightly larger than an association of people on a geographical surface and that is a community where we feel responsible for each other, where people's commitment and willingness to work is what builds society strong, where we welcome people who flee from war and oppression, where no one is left behind, but where no one is held back – an open Sweden where we strive both to have the most high-tech companies, cutting-edge research, environmental technology at the very forefront and to become the most equal and equal society in the world. A cohesive and inclusive society is a prerequisite for a rich and prosperous country. Sweden should be a country at work. Investments are now being made in new housing and infrastructure, in entrepreneurship and in training people to work. That is how unemployment is pushed back. The great needs of Swedish schools are now met with investments in the teaching staff, more employees, smaller children's groups and an equal school. This is how the results of knowledge can be raised. Climate change is now speeding up, because it is necessary for the future of the planet and because it strengthens our competitiveness and quality of life. That's how we take the lead in climate work. This is our common future project. So we build a Sweden to be proud of. During the last parliamentary year, the parties of Parliament entered into several important agreements. There is now broad agreement on, among other things, the budget process, the defence, arms exports, grades, pre-support, amortisation requirements for mortgages and military operations in Mali and Iraq, and continued good cooperation on the pension system. It's a force for our country. The Cooperation Government would like to start by thanking all those who have been constructively involved in these agreements. Mr President, I would like to The security situation in our vicinity has deteriorated. Russian aggression and the destabilisation of Ukraine are the most serious challenge to the European security regime since the end of the Cold War. Russia's illegal annexation of Crimea is a violation of international law – borders must not be changed by force. Support for Ukraine is continuing, both politically and economically. A modern total defence is created to meet the challenges arising from the changing security policy situation. The cross-block agreement lays the foundations for the future direction of the defence. Defence appropriations are being increased, and military capabilities are gradually being increased. At the same time, our international cooperation is deepened. Swedish-Finnish cooperation has a special priority. Swedish military alliance freedom still serves our country well. A broad work is being started for a clear policy for Sweden's security. The threats to our security are changing and very complex. Terrorism, digital vulnerability, epidemics and climate change are examples of contemporary threats. Several parties are invited to participate in this work. Sweden's candidacy for the UN Security Council is a concrete expression of the government's willingness to take greater responsibility for peace and security. Sweden will promote active conflict prevention work with early interventions. Efforts to resolve ongoing wars and conflicts must be intensified. In order to achieve a two-state solution between Israel and Palestine, direct negotiations must be opened. Humanitarian action must also be strengthened and made more effective. Sweden continues to be one of the world's largest donors of humanitarian aid, and we shall be a strong voice in the world for freedom, peace, human rights and solidarity. The war in Syria continues to cause enormous human suffering. The government condemns the massive attacks by the Asad regime against the barbaric abuse of civilians and Isil. Particularly shocking is the systematic violence against women and children. 250 000 people have lost their lives. Increased pressure on the Asad regime and the states that support it is needed to reach a political solution. Sweden wants the EU to gather into a more active and proactive role, in contact with countries in the region, and constructively supports the UN envoy for Syria. Sweden wants to see an international contact group set up with the US, Russia, regional partners and the EU to promote the UN's efforts – and this is urgent. The UN Security Council and its great powers must assume their responsibilities and put an end to this bloodbath. Millions of people are fleeing the war. More countries need to do more to offer people protection. Sweden is increasing support for the UN High Commissioner for Refugees' relief efforts on the ground, and the rescue efforts in the Mediterranean Sea continue. Legal means of seeking asylum must be available. Sweden stands up for the right of asylum. In times of crisis, it is the most important thing. Those who flee from war and oppression should be able to get protection in Sweden, and those who have no reason to stay may return. Sweden has regulated immigration. Responsibility for asylum seekers must be shared. This is true in the EU, between the EU Member States – no country should evade its responsibilities. This applies in Sweden, between municipalities – no municipality should be able to evade its responsibilities. Many people are making important contributions today. It is teachers who do their utmost to give children a new start in Sweden, it is football- and bandy coaches who welcome new players in the team and it is volunteers who help with homework. So today's new arrivals, just like those who once came on the run from the dictatorship of Chile or the war in the Balkans, can quickly become part of our society and be involved in building Sweden. These are efforts the government pays homage to. I will call a national collection – Sweden together – for an even better establishment. Municipalities, regions, civil society, sports movement, religious communities, government agencies, industry, trade unions and others are invited to develop the best solutions for a strong Swedish reception. In many municipalities the situation is strained. A major effort is therefore being made for faster establishment. The municipalities are given increased resources to improve Swedish education for adults and schooling for children and young people, and the state compensation for the reception of new arrivals is significantly increased. The remuneration of unaccompanied minors and young people is adapted to make it more predictable and cost-effective. All adults who come to Sweden should be allowed to work and do the right thing. Swedish education should start already at the asylum accommodation, and a validation effort is being made to identify people's skills more quickly. Fast track into the labour market is being developed. So the people who have fled war and persecution can start a new life. This is how Sweden is better equipped for demographic development. So what is now a challenge is an asset for Sweden. Anna Lindh reminded us why the European Union was once created: that states that have fought each other for generations would, with economic cooperation and everyday intertwining, prevent armed conflicts in Europe. Wars are unlikely between countries that are interdependent – economically, socially and politically. ..................................................... The refugee crisis, the economic crisis in Greece and the forthcoming referendum in the UK are challenging European cooperation in various ways. Sweden is working for a strong and cohesive Europe where more jobs are created, where gender equality is increased and where climate policy is ambitious. Equal pay for work of equal value according to laws and agreements in the country of employment is a principle that applies throughout the EU. At the initiative of Sweden, several countries are now pushing for free movement not to be used to circumvent national laws and collective agreements. This is how a citizens' Europe can be created – a Europe that shows its benefits in people's everyday lives. Mr President, I would like to Hard work lies ahead of us. For several years Swedish productivity and competitiveness have declined. Government deficits have grown. Unemployment has increased. The gaps have widened. The school results have fallen. Environmental work has been reduced. But now work has begun to reverse developments, and the goal is high. Employment and hours worked will increase so that Sweden reaches the EU's lowest unemployment rate by 2020. Responsible economic policy is the basis. Public finance management is a prerequisite for more jobs and sustainable financing of welfare. Short-term tax cuts may stand back in favour of long-term investment and deficits are offset. Step by step, the job goal will be achieved through Sweden's new job agenda, and it consists of three parts. The first is investment in the future. A major housing policy initiative is being implemented. Investment aid is directed towards smaller and energy-efficient apartments and a special incentive is introduced to quickly build more student housing. A building bonus is directed to municipalities where new housing is being built. Rail and road maintenance is strengthened throughout the country from north to south. Priority is given to infrastructure investments leading to more housing, better freight transport and reliable work commuting. Investments in infrastructure will increase by 40 per cent by 2019. Sweden should be one of the world's leading research countries. During the year, a new research proposal will be developed with a ten-year perspective. The rate of climate change increases. The focus on environmental and climate technologies to strengthen the innovation capacity of companies is being stepped up. Investment support Climate change is aimed at what has the greatest impact on climate emissions. The second part of Sweden's new job agenda is an active business policy for more and growing companies. A strategy for new industrialisation is being developed. Industrial research is being developed. Sweden will become a more attractive country for investments in modern industrial activities. State venture capital is reformed to support innovative companies throughout the country. Early and growing companies are prioritised. The Innovation Council has so far identified three collaborative programmes in life science, environmental and climate technology and digitalisation. Modern business policy creates jobs throughout the country. The forest, the green gold, will contribute to more jobs and be managed sustainably. Work on a national forest programme continues. Sweden's potential as a tourist destination with a focus on nature and ecotourism is being exploited. A food strategy is being developed to increase production throughout the food chain and meet the demand for organic food. A regional reform is being prepared. Extensive efforts are being made on broadband expansion. Support for basic commercial services in rural areas will be increased. An export offensive is initiated. Exports are facilitated for small and medium-sized enterprises. Swedish presence is increasing in emerging markets. A coordination function, Team Sweden, will streamline and strengthen the state's export promotion. An export strategy is presented during the year. Free and fair world trade is promoted. Negotiations on an EU-US trade agreement, TTIP, continue. As ambitious a result as possible – without jeopardising the interests of workers, the protection of the environment or human and animal health. The agreement shall respect decisions made in a democratic manner. The third part of Sweden's new job agenda is investment in matching and skills. 375 000 people are unemployed in Sweden. At the same time, there are over 80 000 vacancies. It's a big waste. Work is now under way to improve matching and exploit all skills. No person's willingness to train, improve their skills or move forward in their careers should be wasted. A new knowledge lift will be launched with 50,000 new training opportunities in 2016. More are given the opportunity to study at universities of applied sciences, folk high school, college, vocational adult and komvux. All adults are granted the right to study at Komvux in 2017 in order to gain upper secondary school competence and eligibility for higher education. No young person should be sentenced to long-term unemployment. Young people are going to study or work. Work to give young people under 25 years of age education, work or internship within 90 days is now starting in the country's municipalities. Trainee jobs and training contracts are being expanded. Phase 3 shall be phased out. Labour market policy should not put people at a dead end in the world of work. Additional services are introduced. The long-term unemployed are given the opportunity to study with continued activity support. Contracts shall be used strategically. It should be possible for the long-term unemployed to have a job or a traineeship. As the first authority, the Finnish Transport Agency has received this assignment.
i-a77cfae31b89a135-56	Through Sweden's new job agenda, the government invests in housing, infrastructure, research and climate. Cooperation is increasing for more and growing companies. Steps are taken towards a Sweden where labour market matching works. Everyone can and will contribute with their strength. In a Sweden to be proud of everyone who can.
i-a77cfae31b89a135-57	Mr President, I would like to The vast majority of us bear the memory of a special teacher. One who explained what was difficult. Someone who challenged you when you were ready. One who expected great things and helped you get there. Someone who saw you. Teachers are the key to reversing school development. But they can't do it alone. Hard work will be required – by us as a society and by all students and parents. The government has three focusses: raising knowledge outcomes, increasing equality and increasing the attractiveness of the teaching profession. Early action is a priority. Children's groups in preschool are reduced. More people are employed in comprehensive school so that teachers have more time with pupils and lower secondary schools can be less. Fritis is strengthening. More special teachers are being hired. A school development programme where teachers are given basic special pedagogy tools is developed. This is of great importance not least for children with neuropsychiatric disabilities. A count-read-write guarantee for the early years is designed. Resources for the school should be allocated as needed. Homework and holiday school are given to those who need it, not only to those who can pay. Special efforts are made in schools with tough conditions. Resources for municipalities that receive asylum seekers children at school are increasing. Rectors will be strengthened in their pedagogical leadership. The quality of teacher training is improved. SEK 3 billion is added on an annual basis to raise teachers' salaries. The national collection for the teaching profession continues. Digitisation of national tests and reduced administration give teachers more time for students. The mental illness should be counteracted. No one should have to suffer discrimination, bullying or other abusive treatment. This applies both in school corridors and online. Students must feel good in order to perform well. Racism and sexism must be combated. Students' health is strengthened. Sweden's schools should be safe. In a Sweden to be proud of every child comes to his or her right.
i-a77cfae31b89a135-61	Mr President, I would like to More than 1.1 million square kilometres of the Arctic have disappeared. This corresponds to the area of Sweden, Finland and Norway. Climate change is here, they are serious and they affect everyone – both us who live now and future generations. Climate change can be slowed down if we want to. Earth's temperature increase must be kept as far below two degrees as possible. The threat of climate change is the destiny of our time. Global greenhouse gas emissions must be halved by 2050. The government wants to take a climate leap that accelerates the transition to a more sustainable society. By taking responsibility in Sweden for our climate impact, we show leadership in the world. By investing in the climate transition, new Swedish jobs are created. Sweden will become one of the world's first fossil-free welfare countries.
i-a77cfae31b89a135-64	Emissions will be reduced at the pace needed for global sustainable development. The transition should be effective and provide long-term rules of play. The train should be faster than the car and cheaper than the flight. A climate policy framework is being developed. Climate action requires global leadership. UN Secretary-General Ban Ki Moon has said: Our generation is the first to eradicate poverty, and we are the last to stop climate change. At the end of the year, world leaders gather in Paris to conclude a new climate agreement. Sweden is pushing for as ambitious an agreement as possible. Development cooperation shall contribute to the transformation of fossil-dependent economies. At the same time, the resilience of poor countries should be supported by adaptation to climate change. Sweden will continue to be one of the leading donors to the UN's Green Climate Fund. Sweden will take a leading role in the implementation of the UN's new global goals for sustainable development. Combating poverty, environmental and climate change work and peace building belong together. Sweden should lead with a coherent policy that takes into account poor people's perspectives, human rights and the planet's borders. Work on achieving the new sustainability goals in Sweden begins. Sweden shall have a fossil-free vehicle fleet. The conditions for environmental cars are improving. New aid is introduced for electric buses. Investments in charging infrastructure and biogas are made possible. The super environmental car premium is strengthened. The impact of environmental taxes is increasing. New public transport is made possible by the urban environment agreements. Efforts are being made for more people to cycle. The energy transition continues, and climate-smart housing is stimulated. Cross-block cooperation in the Energy Commission is crucial for the creation of a long-term energy policy. Investments for 100% renewable energy lead the way. Ambitions are rising. It creates drivers for technology development, for economic development and for jobs throughout Sweden. The target in the electricity certification system is raised. The work to support offshore wind energy continues. The rehabilitation and energy efficiency of the million-dollar programmes are being implemented. Sweden should take the lead in the environmental field. The planet's boundaries must be respected. Environmental objectives shall be achieved. Biodiversity, a non-toxic everyday life and a good marine environment are priorities. The ambition for biodiversity and ecosystem services is being raised. Efforts to protect and manage valuable natural areas are increasing. More natural forests are protected. More marine reserves are established. The conditions for people to engage in outdoor activities and stay in nature are improved. The funding for outdoor organisations will be increased. Children should grow up in a daily life free from poisons. The precautionary principle, the exchange of dangerous substances and the polluter pays principle are the starting point. The phasing out of chemicals that are harmful to humans and the environment creates drivers for better alternatives. When the EU acquis is not enough, Sweden takes precedence. The foundation is laid for a circular and bio-based economy that contributes to achieving environmental objectives. What is currently waste instead becomes a resource that drives new business opportunities. Dangerous toxins should be phased out of circulation. Material should be reused to a greater extent. The Government's future groups contribute with long-term development of ideas and policies that combine competitiveness and job creation with ecological sustainability and social development. In a Sweden to be proud of, we take climate responsibility for future generations.
i-a77cfae31b89a135-75	Mr President, I would like to Honourable Members of this House! Do you know Gittan – she who in Pija Lindenbaum's fantastic picture book got lost in the forest and met the gray wolves? It's the story of how a little girl acquires great courage. Few things are so important and as simple as reading to children. It can open up completely new worlds. The role of school libraries in young people's ability and desire to read is promoted. Resources are added to more staff at school libraries. In art and culture, society is reflected. It gives us a deeper understanding of our present and of ourselves. Culture should be in people's vicinity. Priority is given to children's cultural creation. Free admission is introduced at state museums. Resources are added to cinemas in sparsely populated areas. The resources for the sports movement are increasing to provide more opportunities for sport. Special efforts are being made to strengthen the role of the sports movement for the establishment of new arrivals. The Sami have a special position as the indigenous peoples of Sweden. The Government intends to work with increasing Sami influence and participation. Sameting is being strengthened. Sweden is supposed to be a safe country, where we stick together. The insecurity and obstacles of violence, hatred and crime must be vigorously combated. The fight against serious organised crime is intensifying. Customs has been given the task of prioritising the fight against arms smuggling. Trials, preparation and conspiracy to commit serious gun crimes are to be criminalized. Targeted efforts are being made in the most vulnerable areas. Police presence is increasing locally. Recruitment to criminal gangs will be reduced through preventive work. The defectors' business will be strengthened. Preventive work to combat violence in close relationships is strengthened. State grants to activities that support victims of violence are increased. Sexual crime legislation is reviewed to strengthen the position of victims in the judicial process. Terrorism must be prevented, made more difficult and prevented. Terrorist war travel is criminalized. The misuse of passports is stopped. Criminal authorities are given more effective tools. The security services are getting new resources. Cooperation between police, customs and coastguards is strengthened. Civil society's preparedness must be stepped up to respond to new security threats. When prejudice spreads and hatred grows, when asylum homes are attacked, when Roma are beaten and camps are burned, when Jews, Muslims and Christians are attacked for their beliefs and when LGBT people are met with hatred, then we shall stand up for the rights and equal value of all people.
i-a77cfae31b89a135-85	Democracy must be conquered and conquered again. We each share that responsibility in everyday life. A national plan against racism and hate crime is being developed. Preventive work against violent extremism is reinforced. A national research programme on racism is established. Information security is strengthened and efforts to combat crime, violations and threats on the Internet are intensified. In Sweden, you should have the right to be exactly who you are. It should be safe for everyone, regardless of gender, transgender identity or expression, ethnicity, religion or other belief, disability, sexual orientation and age. Europe cannot accept anti-Ziganism. It is the responsibility of each Member State to ensure that citizens are not discriminated against and to safeguard their social rights. Alms aren't the way out of poverty. No one should have to beg on the street. Education and jobs are the solution. An agreement to promote employment and social security opportunities in the home country has been concluded with Romania. Now there are talks with Bulgaria to do the same. Law and order in Sweden must be maintained. Unlawful settlements on public or private land shall not be allowed. Hate crime should never be accepted. Mr President, I would like to Sweden is today a society with too large gaps. Life expectancy distinguishes five years between short-term and long-term. Older people get hurt when there's too little staff in care for the elderly. This is not how Sweden should be. Insecureness and gaps hold Sweden back. The general welfare is unmatched to level out living conditions and create security. Cuts are now being replaced by new investments. Our common funds should go to what they are intended for. The knowledge of the staff shall be taken into account. Let the pros be pros! A Commission on Equal Health has been set up. Human health should not be determined by socio-economic status. The goal is to close the avoidable health gaps within a generation. Health care is provided with more resources for higher quality. Efforts are being made to improve cancer care. Mammography will be free of charge. Childbirth care is enhanced. Resources are provided to reduce mental illness in young people. An effort is being made on women's health. Pensioners' economy is improving. Pensioner's tax is reduced as a step towards equal taxation of pensions and wages. For pensioners with the lowest income, the tax gap is completely closed. The housing allowance has been increased. Investment aid for more housing for the elderly is introduced. Staffing in care for the elderly is increasing. Work on a national quality plan begins. Gender mainstreaming takes place throughout the policy. Women and men should have the same power to shape society and their own lives. The world's first feminist government is now implementing a policy that increases equality between men and women.
i-a77cfae31b89a135-95	Family policy is strengthened so that all children are given equally good chances of life. The basic level of parental insurance is increased. Modern parental insurance is developed that is adapted to today's labour market and works for all family constellations, including star families. A third month is reserved for each parent. An effort to renovate social care for children and young people is under way. Society's protection for the most vulnerable is a network of people, often social secretaries. They've been fighting in the dark for a long time. The fraud in welfare systems must be combated. Work is being started to tackle abuse of personal assistance and subsidised employment. Welfare must be protected from financial crime. A new cheating delegation is added. A powerful package of measures is being developed to slow down the growing health rate. No one should have to get sick from their work. A new strategy on health and safety at work is being developed. The expiry of the time limit in health insurance is removed. Health insurance should lead people back to work, not poverty. Unemployment insurance is improving. The ceiling has been raised. Work is started to enable more people to qualify and join the insurance. A legislative proposal is put forward to stop the abuse of fixed-term contracts. Economic security leads people to accept change in working life. It is good both for the individual and for Sweden's companies. Mr President, I would like to We have begun the journey towards a society that stays together and where people are for each other. Step by step, we lay the foundations for a Sweden where more jobs are created and unemployment is reduced. No one's left behind. No one is being held back either, for the community of solidarity is also the successful society. Step by step, we create a school where children learn more. Every child is challenged and gets the support they need, because we know that an equal school leads to higher learning outcomes. Step by step, we are raising our ambitions for climate policy, because there is no other way if we are to stop climate change. And we know that it equips Sweden for the future. That's what the blue-yellow flag will symbolise. Together we create a Sweden to be even more proud of.
