i-60c70c793ff02b1c-11	Madam President, I would like Fredrik Schulte has asked Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson about the government for discussions on introducing citizens' wages or six hours' working day, whether the Minister of Finance can guarantee that the government will not make proposals on the introduction of citizens' wages or six hours' working day and how the Minister of Finance views the idea of introducing citizens' wages and six hours' working day. The responsibility within the government is so shared that I answer the interpellation. The government has no plans to introduce a citizen's salary or a six-hour working day through legislation. Working time issues are primarily dealt with by the social partners in collective agreements. There are agreements that mean that working hours are shorter than the 40 hours that according to the Working Hours Act are maximum regular working hours per week. There are also local trials of reduced working hours in different sectors. The Government naturally welcomes the fact that the social partners agree jointly on the working time to be applied in different workplaces and sectors. But, as I said, the government has no plans to implement citizens' wages or six-hour working days through legislation.
i-60c70c793ff02b1c-16	Madam President, I would like I have asked the Minister for Finance if there are any plans to introduce so-called citizens' wages. The question is answered by the Minister for Labour. What prompted the question was that a number of leading environmentalists wrote a debate article stating clearly that it is an important issue for the Green Party. As you know, the Green Party is in the government and is a partner of the Social Democrats. The Minister for Labour answers that there are no such plans. It is a very interesting wording: there are no such plans. Those sitting in the gallery and those listening to the debate on television can surely get the impression that it means that there will be no citizen's salary. The problem is that a year ago the Finance Minister sat on the TV sofa and said that there are no plans to review the surplus target. It was not many months before the surplus target was scrapped. Similarly, we were able to hear the Minister of Finance say in a TV sofa that there are no plans to raise taxes for ordinary people who work. It was not many months before the government presented proposals to increase the tax on income for more than 1 million income earners. We heard the Minister of Finance say in a TV sofa that there are no plans to change RUT and ROT. It was not many months before the government changed RUT and ROT. Just a few months ago, we heard the Minister of Finance say in a TV sofa that there are no plans to increase the tax on petrol. Then the petrol tax was increased. When the government and representatives of the government parties stand in the pulpit of the Riksdag or sit on a TV sofa and say that there are no plans, it is in all likelihood that they will be presented in the near future. We've learned that. As I have said, the Green Party is close to the heart of the issue of citizens' wages. It is about introducing an undemanding welfare society where it is up to everyone to decide for themselves whether to work or not. In 2006, when the bourgeois government took over power after twelve years of Social Democratic rule, we had a record exclusion, an alienation that the alliance government despite the worst global economic crisis since the Second World War pushed back with almost 200 000 people. So 200 000 fewer people live on subsidies. If these 200 000 had remained in isolation, it would have cost the taxpayer hundreds of billions of dollars today. Now that we are seeing a sharp increase in refugee flows, it is putting tough demands on welfare and on us to continue to keep public finances in balance. At the same time, we have a government party that goes out and declares that we should introduce an undemanding welfare society, that it should be up to everyone to decide whether to work. The same party also goes forward with the requirement of a six-hour working day. We have allowed the parliamentary investigation service to look at what it would cost. Then we are talking about costs for society of about SEK 200 billion.
i-60c70c793ff02b1c-24	Madam President, I would like Fredrik Schulte has the habit, or rather the habit, of being able to produce his variety of interpellations quoting errors, interpreting errors or giving false factual information. You are writing in your interpellation that the Green Party has a demand for citizens' wages to be introduced, and you just said in the debate here that a government party wants to introduce citizens' wages, or basic income, as we like to call it. But this is wrong. Where did you get that assignment? I'd like to know. What our congress has decided is to investigate the effects of basic income. That is also what the authors of the articles, and I am one of them, have said in the paper, namely that this is an investigation. It is not the same as introducing it. You have to be a little careful with the facts, I think. It is an investigation by many that the Green Party wants to do in an idea analysis of social security. If such an investigation is carried out, it is not certain that it will be possible to implement it. We do not know anything about this today. But we think it is important to turn all the stones around to look at social security. We believe, as the parliamentary Social Insurance Committee said, that the level of coverage of social security has been reduced. Fewer and fewer people are covered by social security, such as unemployment benefit and sickness benefit. What can be done about it? This is just a little piece of the puzzle in a bigger search from our side. I would also like to comment on what you also wrongly claim in your interpellation that the Green Party wants to introduce a six-hour working day. Where does Fredrik Schulte get it from? It's not from us. Where'd you read that? Our Congress has decided that we want to strive for a 35-hour working week, but that's something else. Then I think that the policy does not have to interfere so much in this matter of reducing working time. It solves itself through the social partners. Both employers and employees now see that, in order to prevent ill health, it may be reasonable and appropriate to introduce either flexible working hours or shorter working hours. We see in a number of areas that employers and employees agree on shorter working hours. I last read that Mölndal Hospital is going to introduce this. So it solves itself enough without the politics having to interfere so much in it.
i-60c70c793ff02b1c-30	Madam President, I would like Fredrik Schulte is trying to make it likely that the government will soon legislate on six-hour days and citizens' pay. I wonder if anyone even believes in Fredrik Schulte in this. But my message is, that's not gonna happen. That's the message from the government. Fredrik Schulte devotes his time here in the pulpit of the Riksdag to fighting windmills. He is, of course, free to do so, but I have answered the question and have nothing further to add.
i-60c70c793ff02b1c-32	Madam President, I would like I think it is positive that the Minister for Employment is clearer now than she was in her interpellation response. She clearly declares that it will not happen. I am not trying to say what the government will propose and not propose, because I have no idea and no insight into that. But I can say that the government has made it an art form to break the electoral promises. You say one thing before the election and then do the diametrically opposite. With this, I would like to emphasise that there is little credibility, substance and value in hearing a representative of the government standing here in the speaker's chair saying: No, we will not introduce citizens' wages. There are so many examples of you breaking electoral promises. That's really just the point I wanted to make. I also find it a little strange that Ylva Johansson does not disapprove of civic pay as a phenomenon. It is a proposal that would certainly destroy Swedish public finances. There is a naive notion in large parts of the Swedish left that there are no consequences of raising taxes or subsidies, which is quite strange given that not so long ago there was a collapse in the Greek economy as a result of living above your resources. With such historical examples so close to it, it is astounding that there are parts of this Parliament that are still making completely insane proposals for a totally undemanding welfare society. The fact that the government and the Minister for Labour are not more clearly opposed to similar proposals is strange. The explanation for this is that the Social Democrats are cooperating with the Green Party, which is a party that has always stood for a subsidy line. Rickard Persson goes up here and says: We certainly do not want to introduce citizens' wages. He may try to deceive us in this House, but the Green Party has always been in favour of citizens' wages. The Green Party has always been in favour of the existence of aid schemes that are completely unconditional. It has now been changed, in order to make it look a little better in the Minutes, to investigate an undemanding welfare society. But basically that is the direction they want. Less than ten years ago we had something called a free year that meant that anyone could live a year on taxpayers' money, that is, take a sabbatical year. It is one of many examples of how the Green Party is constantly pushing the issue of people actively quitting work and living on benefits. They do so because they have an inherent distrust of the idea of growth and the idea that people are working because they are actually against the modern project. I understand this is difficult for the Minister for Labour. I would have liked that too if I had to cooperate with the Green Party. I find it regrettable that Ylva Johansson cannot declare more clearly his opposition to citizens' wages and the kind of proposals that come from a party that you are actually in government with. This is not an extreme party that sits in Parliament, but this is a party that sits in the government.
i-60c70c793ff02b1c-38	Madam President, I would like Now Fredrik Schulte, his habit faithful, continues to come up with misinformation. Fredrik Schulte refers to election promises. What party has gone out with an election promise to introduce citizen's salary? I do not know of such a party, but Fredrik apparently does. You just said that there have been proposals in this House to introduce citizens' wages. It's not something I know about, but apparently you do. You're welcome to state the source of that. Possible proposals have been made for an investigation to examine the issue among a number of other issues in the field of social security. Fredrik Schulte also makes the false claim that the Green Party has always been for citizens' wages. No, it's not something I know about, and I should, in that case, because I've been with that party for a while. If that were the case, our congress would have decided that we should introduce citizen's salary. However, this has not been done, but it has been said that the effects of citizens' pay should be investigated as part of an examination of a number of issues in the field of social security. You cannot go up in the speaker's chair and almost debate with yourself, Fredrik Schulte. You have no one to debate with because what you're presenting is wrong. Then it becomes kind of difficult to answer the questions objectively.
i-60c70c793ff02b1c-41	Madam President, I would like I would first like to say that I strongly reject Fredrik Schultes's disparaging and erroneous view of my fellow government. I've answered the questions. I have responded clearly. And I represent the entire government when I answer. If I were a moderate representative, I would be a little more careful to make a statement on definitive decisions after the many tours of the last week about what the Moderate Leader has said and has not meant when it comes to absolutely crucial questions for the Swedish Parliament.
i-60c70c793ff02b1c-44	Madam President, I would like The Green Party has a number of members of parliament who exercise to introduce citizens' salaries. The Green Party has always been for citizen's salary. At their last voice, they've changed a little bit, to make things look a little better now that they're in the government. They are now saying that they want to investigate citizen's salary. That they want to go in that direction is quite clear. Everything indicates that. All the times they have had the opportunity to influence politics, they have influenced it in the direction that it should be completely free to live on subsidies without making demands. During the previous S-government, when the Green Party was part of the government base, the free year was introduced. If the Green Party now wants to investigate such a crazy idea as citizen's salary, there is probably a motive for it. You don't investigate things just because it's fun. Of course they want to go in that direction. That is also the general direction of this government. It's a government of grants. It is a government that seeks to increase taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship and to use that money to increase the contributions of those who do not work. It will lead Sweden to ruin if it continues for too long and too much. I am pleased that the Minister for Labour rejects the pay of citizens. I am also pleased that there are representatives in the Green Party who at least try to pretend that the party does not propose it. This is a fight that we in the Moderates will take. We will not accept going back to Sweden.
i-60c70c793ff02b1c-50	Madam President, I would like Let me remind you that it was during the time of the old government that we had a dramatic increase in the number of people who were forced to live on social assistance or subsistence support. Now unemployment is falling.
i-60c70c793ff02b1c-52	Madam President, I would like Christian Holm Barenfeld has asked me how I look at the fact that the government proposal is condemned by the head of the Public Employment Service, the largest and most important authority in this area. It is not my assessment that the Director General of the Public Employment Service Mikael Sjöberg has dismissed the government's policy. On the contrary, the Director-General, like the government, points to the importance of equipping job seekers who are a little further away from the labour market so that they can take a job. Despite the high unemployment rate, the number of job vacancies is higher than ever. Many job seekers simply lack the skills or experience required by employers. Those who do not have completed upper secondary education find it particularly difficult to gain a foothold in the labour market. The vast majority of people have strong driving forces to work and provide for themselves. However, for those who find it difficult to compete in today's labour market to be able to take responsibility and increase their chances at work, society needs to respond with concrete opportunities for education, training or other actions that lead to jobs. The government's main task during its term of office is to increase employment and permanently reduce unemployment. In the 2016 budget bill, the government has therefore proposed major future investments in housing, climate change and infrastructure, an active business policy for more and growing companies and investments in skills and matching to equip people to take the jobs that are emerging. The spring bill for 2015 and the budget bill contain total investments for jobs amounting to just over SEK 14 billion for 2016. These efforts are a major and important step towards achieving the government's objectives, but, like the Director-General of the Public Employment Service, I believe that more will have to be done. The government will continue to invest in more jobs. And I will test all serious proposals to combat long-term unemployment.
i-60c70c793ff02b1c-58	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister for Employment. I appreciate that. The answer sets out a series of views and visions. However, my question concerned what I call job creation measures and the parts that hit the labour market directly. In particular, I highlight the deterioration of the RUT deduction and the abolition of the reduction in the social security contribution for young people. We have also discussed this on other occasions. We know that the RUT deduction has led to many new companies being started and now run by women entrepreneurs. The RUT deduction and the new industry have led to many people getting jobs. Many have gone from being in a black market to getting real jobs, with all the benefits and benefits that it has in terms of insurance, pensions and everything else. A lot of people have got new jobs. This applies to many who have been far removed from the labour market. This applies to many who are new in Sweden. A lot of people get the first job through that business. The Director-General of the Employment Service has made a clear statement on this: That is why we have doubts about this change. ..................................................... As far as the employers' contribution for young people is concerned, the same Director-General has said: How many we dare not judge, but that it can have effect is clear. He also claims that they are already seeing the relocation of companies in, for example, telephone sales to London, as it is more advantageous to run companies there. There are, of course, visions, discussions, investigations and other things from the government about how the jobs will be more. And the tailings have been high for a long time. Ylva Johansson herself has said that she will ensure that Sweden will have the lowest unemployment rate in the EU by 2020. That's good. It would be good if the government succeeded. It's good if you do new things. I believe that new measures are needed. But when what becomes reality, not what is under investigation, results in more people going from job to exclusion instead of the other way round, it is difficult to see more jobs. Therefore, I would like to ask the Government how the jobs can be increased through those parts. I do not see in any way that this should be the case.
i-60c70c793ff02b1c-66	Madam President, I would like One problem that several Moderates have is that one believes more in one's own forecasts than in reality. We saw that during the old government. It was painted that reducing the social security contribution for young people would reduce youth unemployment. It rose instead. If unemployment were to deteriorate, unemployment would fall. It rose instead. You have more faith in your own forecasts than in reality. An honest politician must trust the effect that can actually be seen in reality. And what we are actually seeing right now is that youth unemployment is falling. It falls quite clearly, not least in the last quarter, both in number and as a percentage. Christian Holm Barenfeld also deals with the RUT deduction. The government does not remove any RUT deduction. The government is proposing that the RUT deduction be retained.
i-60c70c793ff02b1c-69	Madam President, I would like I have not claimed that the government abolishes the RUT deduction. I said you're getting worse. Actually, that's what you do. It could not have gone beyond the fact that we had a global international financial crisis. Of course, it had a job effect. But employment rose under the alliance government. If we hadn't done anything, it would have looked much worse. Sweden is one of the countries that came most well out of the financial crisis, and now we see positive effects. It is fun to hear the Minister for Labour say that, because everything that is bad in Sweden is because she has ruled with the Alliance's budget during the year that has been. Now the government looks to get its own budget through, and then the blows will come to the companies and the employees. That's what worries me. We have heard discussions about a lot. There has been talk of industrial chancellors, and there has been discussion about innovation captions. That may also be good, but what we have perhaps seen is that the industrial chancellor became four. What they're supposed to do is a little unclear. It became an advisory board, which has made sure that at least four people have got a job, but it was not they who were the furthest from the labour market. That is what worries me. It's a lot of talk and vision, and it's a little too little workshop. Concrete measures are important to increase the number of companies and to encourage them to hire. It's not about not seeing reality, it's what we're doing. We see what it looks like, and we see that there is a need for a series of measures. The measures that are being taken are, of course, those that ensure that jobs do not increase, quite the opposite.
i-60c70c793ff02b1c-74	Madam President, I would like Christian Holm highlights the debate on employers' contributions for young people. The Minister for Labour has pointed out that Christian Holm does not want to take on board the reality, that youth unemployment actually rose under the alliance government and that it is now falling. Although Christian Holm has a different perception of reality, it would be interesting if he could at least be a little logical. Christian Holm believes that employment rose with the alliance government's policy because it had a successful labour market policy. The closeness to reality of this description can also be considered. Trade has carried out an investigation into the number of employees in the two largest contract areas affected by this reform. It turned out that after seven years of reducing employers' contributions for young people, there are fewer young employees in Trade's two largest contract areas. In Christian Holm's reality description, the number of employed persons has increased. Then that description of reality becomes even more difficult to understand. It is not even the case that the figure has fallen by some kind of general unemployment. With Christian Holm's logic, the policy of the alliance government would have led to a decrease in the number of young people employed. It is the logical conclusion of Christian Holm's somewhat strange perception of reality. Madam President, I would like Then it breaks both in Christian Holm's logic and in his perception of reality. But if you stick to it, logic becomes very difficult to understand. In Christian Holm's and his party's own conception of their own politics, logic is once again flawed. This reform is being initiated by allowing those under 26 years of age to benefit from the beneficial effect. After a while you realize that it didn't work very well, and then you lower your age to under 25. If I understand correctly, the latest moderate proposal has now further reduced age. It is those under the age of 21 who benefit from this beneficial policy against youth unemployment. I guess it's just to hold on and hope, because soon there'll be no limit left. The reason for this is actually that Christian Holm's party colleagues think more logically than he does. They see that politics is not working. It would be exciting to hear Christian Holm criticize his own policy. When it has been renewed, young people who are going to take part in the reform have been constantly reduced. There is no doubt that we have been able to look at reality somewhere and see that this policy is not working. It's a little counterfactual discussion where we're discussing whether or not there was. Now we are living – as the Minister for Labour rightly says – in reality. Then the reality is that this was a reform that did not work. Everyone who studied the reform stated that it did not work, and now we are abolishing this very expensive reform, which costs over SEK 100 billion, and which has led to an increase in unemployment among young people during the time they have wasted large resources that could have been used to combat real unemployment. That is exactly what the new government is doing.
i-60c70c793ff02b1c-81	Madam President, I would like Youth unemployment is falling. It's nice that the Alliance's policy has an effect. It is in principle still the Alliance's budget that applies. The Social Democrats and the Red-Greens made some changes that began to apply from 1 July, but overall it is still the policy of the Alliance. The Government's budget for 2016 has not yet been reviewed in the Riksdag, and it is still 2015, as Patrik Björck may know. Speaking of reality, it is interesting to ask the Swedish people: How many believe in the government's employment policy? Then 5% responds that they believe in it. It's 8 percent who say they believe in ghosts, and 10 percent say they think there are aliens walking around among us. So there are more people who believe in ghosts and aliens than in government politics. It may be that few voters do not believe in government policy. But it doesn't stop there. All independent economic assessors – Konjunkturinstitutet, Finanspolitikrådet, OECD, IMF – note that what the government is doing now will lead to fewer jobs. According to Konjunkturinstitutet, there are about 25 000 fewer jobs with government policy. According to the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, it is about 20 000 fewer jobs. A recent opinion poll showed that 74 per cent of Swedish entrepreneurs believe that the government's policies will damage their ability to hire more and grow as a company. It's no wonder it's like this. The government systematically raises taxes, but it does not raise taxes to invest in health care, school and care – it invests a little in health care, school and care – it is 75 per cent that goes to other things. Of the 75%, most of the money goes to increase subsidies, to introduce inefficient subsidies and to introduce labour market policy measures, which have been scientifically recognised, reduce the ability of the unemployed to get to work. I can agree that the reform, which was about reducing the employers' contribution for young people, was not the Alliance's most successful reform. We have now reconsidered our policy and reduced the number of people affected by the reform. The point is that even if you completely remove the reform, you should not think that there will be no consequences. If the tax is increased by 15 billion for all entrepreneurs who employ young people, this will have an effect. It will have a negative impact on business. Instead of increasing subsidies and introducing labour market policies that lock people in exclusion, the money should be used to reduce income taxes. It has a proven effect. Then I would just like to mention the issue of unemployment. We can halve unemployment tomorrow. It's really easy. Just do as Göran Persson did: grant early retirement or sick leave to everyone. Now Göran Persson got a lot of criticism for it, so this government can't make it so easy for itself. This government is trying to sneak through by removing the longer time limit in health insurance. We are faced with so-called extra jobs that are fake jobs that the government has invented to conceal unemployment. Unemployment has become somewhat of an obsolete measure. What you're supposed to look at is how many people actually work. There were 300 000 more people working after eight years with the Alliance, despite the worst crisis.
i-60c70c793ff02b1c-88	Madam President, I would like Christian Holm Barenfeld says that it went well for Sweden during the old government, and it's funny that he thinks so. There aren't many more people who think like him. That was one of the reasons why the old government was severely rejected by the electorate. Of course, it is free to take that view. It may not be surprising either that it is moderated. It is interesting to hear Fredrik Schulte speak about what others call an expensive and inefficient reform. Fredrik Schulte now says that it was not the most successful reform and that it needed to be reconsidered. I think it's about the same. Thus even the Moderates do not stick to the expensive and inefficient reduction of employers' contributions for young people. Madam President, I have a few comments to make. Let me first say that the rate of sick leave has increased dramatically since 2010. The old government could not cope with this, but sat and saw the sickness rates increase dramatically, year after year. At the same time, the government cut down on health and safety efforts and other efforts that have the opportunity to reverse developments. You shouldn't throw stones in glass houses. Madam President, I would like Although Sweden and the government have lived with a bourgeois budget for more than six months, we have not one day conducted a bourgeois labour market policy. As of today, we have a report on labour market policy. It is a clear change that is now being noticed. We have removed two thirds of the regulations in the regulations to the Employment Service. We have started a very extensive cooperation with the municipalities. We have started with flexibility in labour market policy measures. We have started a major shift, so that the Employment Service is today working towards employers as its most important customer and not focusing solely on the long-term unemployed. This is a big change. It is not finished yet but needs to continue, but it is the one we are beginning to see the effect of. Madam President, I would like Let me talk about what Fredrik Schulte describes as labour market policy measures that lock people up. It's education. That's what we're betting on. We are investing heavily in adult education and in education at folk high school, university of applied sciences and universities, in a situation where Sweden has more vacancies than ever that are not added. In such a situation, it is precisely the policy that is needed. We need to equip people to take the job off. One of the most serious threats to economic growth is that companies and other employers currently face difficulties in obtaining relevant professional skills when seeking them. This threatens the growth of individual companies and the whole of Sweden. That is why it is so important to change labour market policies, to invest heavily in regular education, to pursue a more flexible labour market policy and to meet employers' needs.
i-60c70c793ff02b1c-93	Madam President, I would like Now we got Patrik Björck into the debate as well, and I would like to comment on his speech a little. Of course, seeing reality means constantly rethinking and further developing one's policies. We do, and I guess that's not a secret. We are clear and open about it. We are happy to tell everyone, even Patrik Björck, what we do and why. We have made adjustments in terms of employers' contributions for young people in our new proposals. I think that's reasonable. On the other hand, as Fredrik Schulte said, there is a huge difference between, on the one hand, making adjustments, moving money, reducing the cost of working and ensuring that the worker retains more of the money and, on the other hand, increasing the contributions or doing other things that are not directly job creation, especially not short-term. Patrik also deals with Municipal and Investigations. Municipal is another part of politics, one can well calmly note, which is not quite far from Patrik Björck. But we're going to go back to what the interpellation is about: what creates jobs and not. There are certainly proposals from the government that are reasonable and have positive effects. Unfortunately, however, those who are now present are not above all these, but rather those who lead to increased unemployment. Ylva Johansson represents a government that day-to-day claims to be a cooperative government that wants to find broad solutions and cross-block agreements to overcome problems. But I don't really think it's the melody of reconciliation we hear from either Minister Johansson or Patrik Björck.
i-60c70c793ff02b1c-97	Madam President, I would like With friends like Fredrik Schulte, Christian Holm Barenfeld needs no enemies. Fredrik Schulte says that this reduction in social security contributions for young people was not the most successful reform of the alliance government. Actually, it's kind of funny. In an attack of rare perceptiveness, Fredrik Schulte goes on to say that it should reduce income taxes instead, because, as he claims, this has a proven effect, in contrast to the reduction in employers' contributions for young people, which Fredrik Schulte now admits has no proven effect. We knew that before, but Fredrik Schultes's statement is a bit funny. It's fun! I hope that Fredrik Schulte will have more attacks of perceptiveness. That would make the debates in this House more interesting to listen to. I would like to inform Christian Holm Barenfeld that I referred to an investigation by the trade union Handels, not Kommunal. Trade is an independent trade union that works for the good of its members on their behalf. The inquiry was based on joint statistics produced jointly by the Trade and Trade Employers' Association. Trade is an independent organisation, as is the employers' organisation of commerce. If Christian Holm Barenfeld wants to question the independence of these social partners and the joint statistics on which the investigation is based, it is up to him to do so. But that is not a serious way of debating, Madam President. In that case, of course, one must question the outcome of the investigation or something like that. But it is shared statistics that have been compiled. It was in any case very nice and clarifying to hear Fredrik Schulte say that the reduction in the social security contribution for young people was not successful and had no proven effect.
i-60c70c793ff02b1c-100	Madam President, I would like If the Minister for Labour and Patrik Björck had read the Moderates' budget – which I expect you to do, because we are the largest opposition party – you would have seen that we are not proposing to keep the reduced employers' contributions for young people. We only keep a small portion for those under 21. It's a real change. Instead, what we are prioritising is what we call the first job deduction, which means that we are reducing the tax in a way that is particularly beneficial to those who are going to get their first job. We are doing this to make it pay better to work. Madam President, I would like I would like to comment on some of the things Ylva Johansson said. She tried to make a point of the fact that sick leave is now increasing sharply. I have had exactly the same debate a couple of times with the Minister for Social Security. Finally, I got so tired of hearing these statistics that I had to print a large A1 poster, which I was holding in this Chamber, about the evolution of sick leave and early retirement over time. Since Göran Persson stepped off as Prime Minister, there have been 150 000 fewer early retirements and nearly 100 000 fewer sick people. There was a dramatic decline during the time of the alliance government because we tightened the regulatory framework and made it more difficult to cheat on health insurance and to tighten the system. Now you in the S-government are making exactly the same mistake that Göran Persson made. You're loosening the rules. You make it easier to abuse the system. The substance of this discussion is clear. The Social Democrats believe, contrary to all independent economic assessors, that an increase in taxes of 150 billion in four years does not affect the economy at all. In contrast to all independent economic assessors, they also believe that the best way to use the money is to increase the contributions. I'm sorry, but the reality is quite different.
i-60c70c793ff02b1c-103	Madam President, I would like I have three comments. We're in a position where we have a record number of vacancies. We have never had so many vacancies, and many of them will not be filled within a reasonable time. Tax cuts do not solve this problem. The most important individual effort is education. But there is also a need for increased labour market mobility so that more people can switch to another job. There is a need for better matching and an employment service that works with all the people who are looking for new jobs and meet the employers who are looking for staff. The Moderates say they've reconsidered their policy. We saw under the old government countless job tax deductions. Every new job tax deduction was presented with the hope that it would solve unemployment. It didn't. It then presented a new job tax deduction. It did not solve unemployment either. It then presented a new job tax deduction. Now it is said that politics is being reconsidered. Now they have renamed the job tax deduction when they come with another job tax deduction. But it's exactly the same thing. New tax reductions do not lead to more trained sheet metal workers, crane drivers, heavy power electricians and many of the other professions in which we currently have a shortage. Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude by saying the following about cooperation and broad agreements. Today it is ten days since I made a broad agreement with four opposition parties in the Riksdag that includes, among other things, measures in the labour market. The government delivers.
i-60c70c793ff02b1c-106	Madam President, I would like Christian Holm Barenfeld has asked me what labour market policy assessments I make due to increased costs for the industries. The government's overall objective is to increase the number of people in employment and the number of hours worked so that we reach the lowest unemployment rate in the EU by 2020. In the 2016 budget bill, the government has therefore proposed major future investments in housing, climate change, infrastructure and an active business policy for more and growing companies. Overall, the 2015 Spring Bill and the 2016 Budget Bill contain investments for jobs amounting to just over SEK 14 billion for 2016. Energy policy is crucial for building a sustainable society, and employment in Sweden depends on good and reliable access to electricity at competitive prices. For Swedish industry to continue to generate export revenues and create new jobs, good access to energy at internationally competitive prices is required. This requires stable rules of play that allow long-term investment both in the energy-intensive industry and in power generators. Investments in the energy system are often long-term in nature and have long lead times. Against this background, the Government has set up an Energy Commission to provide input for a broad political agreement on long-term energy policy. Swedish exports are also a cornerstone of our economy that creates growth, employment and increased prosperity. By exporting and importing goods and services, Sweden's industry has been able to grow far beyond our country's borders and take part in the global market. Today, the export industry directly and indirectly employs over 1.3 million people in Sweden. In order to protect the Swedish export industry, the Government has decided to develop an export strategy with efforts to strengthen Swedish companies' export and internationalisation opportunities in key markets and increase the number of exporting companies. Special focus has been placed on small and medium-sized enterprises because this is where the big companies of the future exist, and it is mainly in these companies that new jobs are created in Sweden. Swedish industry and the Swedish export companies are constantly facing major challenges and strong global competition. However, the government's appointment of an Energy Commission that will provide the basis for a broad political agreement on long-term energy policy and the government's export strategy will contribute to a continued strong export industry in Sweden.
i-60c70c793ff02b1c-112	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Employment, for the answer to my interpellation! The debate will be partly on the same theme as in the previous interpellation debate. This is basically also about jobs. I wrote the interpellation because I feel a concern about how Sweden will develop in the future. I myself come from a constituency in Värmland where we have much of the traditional heavy base industry and many other things. We have many companies in forestry and ironworks that are energy-intensive and require good access to energy and energy at reasonable prices, among other things. Now we know that the Minister for Labour is in a difficult position. She and the government are working with a party that is almost militantly opposed to nuclear power. We have a Prime Minister who before he became Prime Minister had a fairly sober view of this and the importance for the industry of having a functioning energy policy in Sweden. Now the government wants to increase the impact tax. It would cost nuclear power over half a billion dollars annually. This is done in a situation of falling energy prices where competitiveness is weaker than it usually is. The signal you send is of course that this is not an industry to continue to invest in. This is an industry that we do not want to see more of, but rather less of. You send the signal that it will be decommissioned. Some parties have sharper writings about rapid decommissioning than others. Due to concerns about the Swedish jobs on this point too, I wrote the interpellation and asked about the effects of the increased impact tax and the Minister for Labour's view on it. There are many discussions that are raised in the answer. But the word "effect tax" and the comments about the effect tax shines completely with their absence. I understand that it is difficult to be that way. It is another part of this that will make it more difficult for the government to live up to its promise that Sweden will have the EU's lowest unemployment rate by 2020. I may never have believed it, and I have not heard any serious judge who has believed it. Nevertheless, I hope that we are moving in the right direction. I would therefore like to put the question orally again to the Minister for Labour: what, according to the Minister for Labour, is the direct effect on the labour market and the Swedish jobs of the increase we are now going to see in the nuclear impact tax?
i-60c70c793ff02b1c-119	Madam President, I would like One may have to choose one's perspective and whether it is primarily nuclear energy that one wants to protect or whether it is jobs and the export industry's competitive potential that one wants to safeguard. I'll pick the last one. Then it is important to ensure that we have a good, safe and long-term energy supply and that, not least, the energy-intensive industry has access to electricity at very competitive prices. That's the government's focus. We currently have record low electricity prices in Sweden historically. We also have a situation, as I am sure Christian Holm Barenfeld knows very well, where the energy-intensive industry in Sweden has an energy tax on electricity that is reduced. It thus basically has Europe's lowest energy tax on electricity. The government has taken the initiative that the old government did not do, namely to invite broad political agreements on long-term energy policy. Within the framework of the work of the Energy Commission, of course, several different proposals are possible to test and agree on. It is a work led by Ibrahim Baylan, and further questions on this can be put to him. The government's focus is on jobs and sustainable, safe and secure access to electricity at competitive prices.
i-60c70c793ff02b1c-123	Madam President, I would like Jobs and competitiveness take precedence over nuclear power. It's not like it's black or white, or either or. I asked the question in the interpellation because nuclear power and a good supply of energy at reasonable prices are a prerequisite for more jobs. That's how it's connected. I guess it's good to have an Energy Commission. I'm sure there's an industrial chancellor and a few other things. But is it not impervious to carry out the cost increases, tax increases and the deterioration of the energy market before the Energy Commission has come to any logical conclusion that follows? In that case, an investigation must be carried out and we must come to the conclusion: now we are going to map out the way forward, and to do this we need to do this and then do this. Then I can buy it. If you had a roadmap that shows that this is the best thing for Sweden, for Swedish jobs and for Swedish companies, that would be one thing. But now I would say that it is highly politically justified to see less of nuclear power, and that is why we are doing it this way. The problem is that when you do this, you send signals to the energy companies. We have already seen the effect on decisions to wind up faster. Then it's not just turning back the clock and changing. These are investments that require long-term decisions. It's a big investment. It goes without saying that it has consequences for the government for a policy that makes such an industry unprofitable and makes energy more expensive, even if we have good prices today. We have relatively good prices for energy in Sweden, but on the other hand we have long transport routes to large parts of our markets. So we have both plus and minus. I think we should work against the negative effects, and the positive ones we should reinforce further – not the other way around. Here we see an increase in costs but no relief. I see this as a serious threat to the Swedish labour market, the Swedish jobs and the Swedish base industry.
i-60c70c793ff02b1c-129	Madam President, I would like No, nuclear power is not a prerequisite for jobs. It is about energy that is sustainable, safe and sustainable in the long term. It is about access to energy at competitive prices. That is what is important for jobs, and this can be provided in several ways. The increase in the impact tax proposed by the government is estimated to have a marginal impact on the viability of nuclear power. The big thing that has happened is that the price of electricity on the market has fallen by almost 30 öre. It is clear that this puts pressure on the profitability of nuclear power companies, for example. Representatives of the owners have also confirmed that this is the case. It is not changes in the impact tax that cause you to stop, but it is profitability in the broader sense. In particular, low electricity prices are affected. The energy supply is good for Sweden. Even with the announced closures of nuclear power plants, Sweden will continue to be a net exporter of electricity. We have good access to electricity, and we have low electricity prices. We're not happy with that. It is important that we find long-term rules of the game and provide a precise basis for long-term investment, because that is what is often involved in this sector. That is why the Government has appointed the Energy Commission.
i-60c70c793ff02b1c-132	Madam President, I would like Yes, of course it is long-term sustainable energy production that is important. Basically, it is less relevant where it comes from. But when it comes to Sweden, we know that it is just over 40% that comes from nuclear power and just over 40% that comes from hydropower. Then it comes from other things. We don't have coal power. What we can see in the world around us is that when nuclear energy is rapidly phased out, the consumption of coal power increases. It can in no way be good either for the environment or for energy supply in general. The fact that we have falling prices of electricity that reduce conditions or reduce competition is one thing. But to speed this up further by increasing certain charges and thus forcing early liquidation can be nothing more than capital destruction. It is good that Sweden is a major energy producer. No matter how we produce our electricity, we produce very clean and very good electricity internationally. I think that's good. Now it has been built cable against the Baltics, which is great. This can make the Baltic countries less energy dependent on Russia. If Sweden pursues a wise and good energy policy, it will have a positive job and growth effect. It will have a good environmental impact. It also has an important security policy effect. That is why, for my part, it is completely illogical to see the policy pursued by the government in this area combined with the other elements that involve an increase in business and development. Of course, the energy producer is also an ordinary company that suffers from many of the expensive charges that now come from the Red-Green Government.
i-60c70c793ff02b1c-136	Madam President, I would like I want to agree with Christian Holm Barenfeld : If Sweden for a wise and good energy policy leads to a very good effect and growth of jobs, economics and exports. I hope that the Moderates will contribute to such a wise, good and long-term sustainable energy policy and to broad agreements within the framework of the Energy Commission.
i-60c70c793ff02b1c-137	Madam President, I would like Maria Plass asks how the Minister of Finance intends to remedy the liquidity crisis facing our Swedish farmers and how the Minister of Finance intends to help our Swedish farms in the short term. The work is so distributed within the government that I am the one who answers the question. The government is aware that the situation of dairy farmers is very acute and serious. The European Commission has decided on a crisis package for animal producers to support sectors in crisis. My intention is that at the end of November/ December the Swedish Board of Agriculture will pay out special aid to milk producers of SEK 96 million, of which 76 million from the EU and 20 million from national funds. In order to further strengthen dairy businesses in the acute crisis, a further payment of national funds of 56 million is also planned in spring 2016. This means more than 150 million to Swedish milk producers. A number of measures have already been taken by the government to strengthen the competitiveness of dairy enterprises. These include a nut money under the single payment scheme, compensation for increased cloven-hoofed health in the rural development programme, export promotion measures for the dairy sector and conditional use of medicines. Agriculture is also fully compensated for the diesel tax increases from 2016. In addition, a temporary reduction of the tax on agricultural and forestry machinery is made by an additional 27 øre per litre in the years 2016– 2018. The temporary reduction corresponds to a reduced cost for agriculture of SEK 100 million per year. The government has also, together with the banks that are the largest lenders to dairy companies, examined the possibility of providing government credit guarantees to dairy companies in crisis. It is a measure authorised under the EU State aid rules, which is otherwise very restrictive in terms of measures targeted at individual companies, as they may distort competition. Unfortunately, banks have concluded that credit guarantees risk reducing the flexibility in the management of businesses with financial concerns and that they risk overturning rather than helping companies. The work has therefore been discontinued in agreement with the industry and the banks. I would also like to mention the Action Plan on Milk, which the government has developed together with actors from the entire value chain. It is an important tool with measures to strengthen the competitiveness of dairy businesses. Finally, I would like to emphasise that the government has a clear political ambition to increase Swedish food production. This is well reflected in the work on the food strategy. It is my firm belief that policy can make a difference in a longer-term perspective, in particular by prioritising measures aimed at increasing competitiveness. I would particularly like to mention research and education as well as simplification of existing regulations combined with continued review of current conditions and instruments, where Swedish added value in the form of safe food, healthy animals and low environmental impact are protected.
i-60c70c793ff02b1c-143	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Commissioner Bucht for your answer. This is not the first time that Swedish farmers feel that their entire business stands and falls with Swedish as well as other countries' political decisions. It also believes that we politicians may not understand the full scope of the problem. The Russian embargo on European food has brought about an exceptional situation in which European and Swedish dairy farmers are particularly affected. The fact that we moderate fundamentally in favour of competition is well known, but we believe that it is unreasonable for companies in a particular sector to bear the burden of Russia's irresponsible behaviour. We are therefore prepared to agree, in this extreme situation, to support the EU dairy farmers, provided that it is within the framework of the agreed EU budget, that competition is not distorted and that no export refunds are included which could disrupt the market in third countries. I have met several dairy farmers around the country, and it is good that the Minister for Rural Development's intention is for the Swedish Board of Agriculture to pay out the dairy farmers' financial support at the next month's shift. However, let us be clear: an intention is not far enough for those who have ended up in a liquidity crisis and whose businesses are at risk of closure. I would therefore like to ask Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht whether the Minister can guarantee Sweden's farmers that the Swedish Board of Agriculture's payment of aid to our Swedish dairy farmers will take place at the turn of November/December. It is a very important issue, and it is important to have a clear and clear message about this here and now.
i-60c70c793ff02b1c-148	Madam President, I would like Maria Plass says this isn't the first time. No, it's not the first time. The last time we had a milk crisis was in 2009. It had to be handled, too. This is certainly not the last time either. We know that this is a global market in which prices fluctuate and demand may not always correspond to the quantity produced. That is why it is important to deal with the crisis that is here and now, but also to take measures that can deal with this in the longer term. What I did when this crisis broke out was to call an immediate high-level meeting with all stakeholders in the sector. There were milk producers, there was the dairy sector, there were the banks, there was the trade, there was the consumer level and there was also the academy. What we did, together with the industry, was to develop a programme covering 87 points, with some short-term measures and others in the longer term. It is also important to be able to meet the fluctuations that exist on the world market. Swedish farmers and Sweden belong to the EU, and the EU is the second largest exporter, after New Zealand, of milk globally. It is clear that there is also an ambition to export milk, but then you are on a world market where prices fluctuate. As far as the issue of payments is concerned, I have contact with the Swedish Board of Agriculture and it gives clear and clear information that it intends to be able to pay out this money in November – December. In the spring budget, we will then normally deal with the EUR 56 million pot to be paid out in the spring.
i-60c70c793ff02b1c-152	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. I can guarantee that the dairy farmers will follow this issue very closely. All parties in Parliament agree that the milk crisis is very negative and that we want to retain Swedish milk production. It is clear that there is no universal solution to this, but if, as the Minister for Rural Development does, you say you care about Swedish agriculture and about Swedish milk production, you have to pursue political proposals that make it easier to be an entrepreneur and operate in Sweden. There is a great deal to be done here, for example, in terms of regulatory simplification. Rural companies that I have met tell me how much time they spend on different types of permit applications, especially if you are going to expand your business and for example have more dairy cows, and about the unnecessary regulatory hassle that exists. I wonder if the government really sees the reality in which people in rural areas live. The rural businesses and dairy farmers I met last week in Halland were very concerned. Their concern was precisely about the delays in payments and the car dependency of people living in rural areas when they are affected by increased taxes on petrol and diesel, but also about the increase in costs that the government's proposal to double employers' contributions for young people involves young people who want to work in and who are employed in the rural sector. It is a cost that will be extremely hard on already strained companies. I share their concern about the future of Swedish agriculture and milk, and my question to Minister Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht is: Does the Government have a happier message than large tax charges to come to our Swedish rural companies next year, or will more farmers see themselves forced to close down their business?
i-60c70c793ff02b1c-156	Madam President, I would like I have a happy news: the consumption of milk is increasing on the world market, and there is room for manoeuvre. I would also like to say that I believe in Swedish production farming, and I am happy when I hear a moderate saying that she believes in Swedish milk production. It hasn't been that long since it sounded different. That's why I'm happy to hear that. Unfortunately, in the case of late payments, that is what it is. When you do not do your homework, agricultural policy also comes very late in place. When I took office as Minister of State, there were 330 outstanding questions to the Commission before we got the programme in place. It is clear that this is causing huge problems and causing delays in payments. I would also like to say, and I hope that Maria Plass sees it as a happy message, that I have started work on the next period, CAP21, in order to prepare in good time so that we do not end up in the same situation as our Swedish friends ended up in this year with late payments. You have to do your homework on time. There are many measures beyond what we have mentioned. SEK 800 per bovine animal via the single payment goes directly to the dairy farmers. SEK 150 million in increased hoof care support goes also directly to the dairy farmers. In the case of the diesel tax reduction, a total of 300 million is allocated per year, i.e. 900 million over three years. Unfortunately, this diesel tax and the diesel tax reduction during the Alliance has meant that the farmers have had to pay SEK 2.69 more. The Alliance government increased the diesel tax on two occasions while the government reduced the diesel tax reduction on four occasions. We are doing the reverse, namely that the diesel tax reduction is raised from 90 cents to 1.70 crowns in connection with the increase in diesel tax so that farmers are kept harmless. The government is also making other investments directly aimed at milk producers, and of course meat producers can also take part of them. We'll double the compensation for methane reduction. There will immediately be 30 million more to methane reduction this year. However, in the period 2014-2023, we will increase the support for methane reduction from 240 million to 480 million. So it is 20 øre per kilowatt hour to 40 øre per kilowatt hour. We are also making a special effort on Norrland agriculture. When Sweden became a member of the EU in 1995, it was negotiated how much we had to use national funds to support Norrland agriculture in particular. There the maximum ceiling was fully used for a number of years during the 90's. Then no government has used the maximum ceiling fully until now. We're raising the aid by 14 million to 40 million. It is very important for the farmers in the northern part of the country. Another point raised by Maria Plass is the simplification journey carried out by the Swedish Board of Agriculture. It's good, and the journey continues. I promise that a great deal will happen in terms of simplification and cutting red tape for our farmers.
i-60c70c793ff02b1c-165	Madam President, I would like Hopefully the bottom line is now reached in terms of milk prices and it can only go up. But we haven't seen that yet. I am pleased that we share the view that the situation is urgent and that measures must be put in place to save Swedish milk production. It is a good thing that action is being taken, but I note that several of the measures the Minister points out were also initiated by the former Alliance Government. Of course, it is a good thing if this effort continues. Unfortunately, I do not hear the Minister say anything about, see in his actions and cannot find in the government proposal the question of living rural areas and increasing entrepreneurship. Large tax increases are directed especially at companies with young employees, and they are also directed at people who are completely dependent on the car to get to work or home. It runs counter to the image of a living countryside throughout Sweden. Our Swedish dairy farmers and producers of Swedish milk, sour milk, yoghurt and cheese need to be able to compete with international companies. This requires long-term rules of play and predictability of the support and rules applicable in the industry. There is still some way to go, and I think there will be more debates on the subject.
i-60c70c793ff02b1c-169	Madam President, I would like Maria Plass deals with rural areas in more general terms – not direct agricultural issues, but those related to agriculture as a company. I'll tell you about some of those bets. There's the broadband drive. This is about 3.25 billion to expand broadband in the Swedish countryside. You can't handle a milk pickup today without broadband. Broadband is important. A farm is a modern company. Then there is the question of service in sparsely populated areas. We are doubling investment aid to the country merchants to EUR 88 million per year and we are setting up a series of assistance to the country merchants of EUR 35 million per year. Farmers also need the service. These are very important issues for Swedish rural areas and for farms. The voluntary Swedish labels of goods are very good. There is voluntary labelling of Swedish meat, and I have seen that there has been a start on the labelling of milk packages as well, but not yet of the cheeses. I hope there will be more Swedish labelling. Swedish consumers want to choose Swedish goods and products. That is what 90 percent of respondents say in the studies they have carried out. Certainly the bottom is reached this time, Maria Plass, but it is important that we remember that prices will continue to fluctuate. It is important to manage the valleys long-term. There is therefore every reason to invest a great deal in research, training and advice in order to deal with these issues in the long term.
i-60c70c793ff02b1c-174	Madam President, I would like Helena Lindahl has asked me why no impact assessment was produced in connection with the development of the model for the new assisted area classification. She has also asked me what I should do to counteract the shortcomings of the model and otherwise deal with the unacceptable consequences that, according to Helena Lindahl, result from the model. Finally, Helena Lindahl has asked me if the Ministry of Economic Affairs will redesign the assisted area and then do the right thing. First of all, I would like to point out that the same distribution of aid applies both to the so-called compensatory aid in the rural development programme and to the national aid for agriculture in northern Sweden. The division that has applied since Sweden's accession to the EU is no longer accepted according to the rules that currently exist within the EU. The fact that this is the case is partly because it is not possible to explain with reliable evidence how the distinction between the different areas of aid is made. It is also not possible under EU rules to use sub-aggregation as the delimitation basis for the division into assisted areas, as was the case for the existing division. The European Commission has stated that a new classification of assisted areas should be based on scientific and verifiable data describing differences in biophysical conditions in the area to be divided. When the European Commission's position came at a late stage, Sweden was deferred to implement a new assisted area classification by 2016. The reason why the choice fell on the model used is that climate data is the area where we have detailed information and information for a long number of years. The model that has been used has been developed by SMHI, is already described in scientific literature and has been used in other areas. The model takes into account not only the temperature during the growing season for the period 1961 to 2010 but also factors such as topography, wind direction, wind speed and more. Important for Sweden has been that the same model should also be used to make a division in southern Sweden, as the compensation aid also includes the southern parts of the country. One demand from the EU has been for their expert bodies to approve the model, and this has happened. Based on the EU framework, I have not seen that there is a better model to use. Several sub-division options have been tested, and a warmer range of options – but not in the same geographical location – appear in all options. The impact on users of different alternatives to classification has been studied. The result of the option chosen is most favourable. However, it is important to point out that the new model provides a more legally secure and fair distribution overall. The fact that support can vary in neighbouring areas is something that already applies. Even the existing classification of assisted areas has been criticised precisely on the basis of the view that the cultivation conditions have been the same on both sides of the border. If we identify a better model that fully meets the requirements of the European Union, I have no objection to using it instead as a basis for the division. It can then be the earliest from 2017. The most important thing now is that national support for agriculture in northern Sweden can be paid out in 2016. It would not be possible if we had to tear up the Commission decision that is now in force.
i-60c70c793ff02b1c-180	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. As the Government said in the previous debate with Maria Plass, the northern peasants also have the opportunity to take part in national support. There was already before EU entry, and we negotiated an exception in order to keep it. The same applies to Finland. However, the Minister is right to say that the classification of assisted areas is the same for EU aid through the rural development programme as for national aid, i.e. it is five areas. The only problem is that the reason we have national support is that there are exceptional differences between northern agriculture and agriculture in other parts of Europe. We have enormous distances here and also a fairly short growing season. The problem with the parameter used today, which was put through in Brussels a month ago and which the government sent in as a basis is weather statistics. It is based on SMHI's weather forecasts, and it is very misleading. After the coast of Norrland, small islands will receive entirely different compensations than other areas. Let me be a little more clear and take the area around Umeå as an example. It is clear that around a city it gets a few degrees warmer because the city warms the surroundings. This means that a farmer who works on a teg there receives a completely different remuneration than one in the neighbouring municipality of Nordmaling despite the fact that the growing season is as long – or as short. The same applies, for example, in the Skellefteå area, where Bureå is expected to have a better climate than Lövånger. There are only a few miles between these places; yet the growing season is different. This is going to be very misleading, because it can distinguish several hundred thousand in compensation between farmers in neighboring villages. It is clear that things are going to be completely wrong, and that naturally affects the survival of the peasants. Like Maria Plass, it's extremely heavy right now. With the trade blockade against Russia, European farmers, not least Swedish and northern farmers, are facing an incredible challenge as the market is overflowing with milk and dairy products. If you also get several hundred thousand – 150 000 – 200 000 – less in compensation per year, it is clear that it will make a significant difference. I have also heard that there are farmers who have problems with the banks because the banks have been told that the farmers will receive lower compensation, which also affects the banks' willingness to lend money. So this is hitting several levels. My question to Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht is what he will do. After all, it cannot have escaped the Minister that it became a crazy basis to start from the climate issue alone. There are many other parameters that could be used, and there are organisations that are close to farmers that might be able to contribute to that.
i-60c70c793ff02b1c-189	Madam President, I would like The conditions for Sweden's agricultural entrepreneurs change before each programming period and sometimes also in the middle of the programming periods, among other things because there may be strange things that you cannot really predict. The difficulty with this is that there will always be winners and losers. It will be on every such occasion, because the cake does not get bigger. What Helena Lindahl mentions in her interpellation is an example of this. This is because the rules change in the EU or because we in Sweden want to change the rules in order to get better accuracy. In this case, it is the EU that no longer accepts the division that we have had. We must be able to explain, on a solid basis, how we make the distinction, and then partial assemblies are no longer possible. Madam President, I would like The Commission's information came very late, and Sweden was postponed until 2016 to make a new division. What Sweden has done is to find a new division which the Commission accepts and which will be as beneficial as possible. A division that is fair and quite correct is difficult to achieve. A new division always gives rise to new boundaries. The new division is made with detailed data and is as reliable as possible. The division that we have today has also been criticised on the basis of the boundaries of that system. The division that Helena Lindahl points to in her interpellation has consequences for some of the farmers in northern Sweden. It is unfortunate, especially for dairy farmers who already have a difficult situation, but of course also for other farmers. As I understand it, this can only be changed in 2017, and it is important that the government now works hard to find a model that is perceived as fair and that the Commission can approve. What the government and Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht are doing for the dairy farmers right now is to add as much money to the crisis package as the EU is doing in the autumn budget, which means an additional 76 million in total. It is very good and relieves some of the dairy farmers in northern Sweden who are affected by the new division. The government also provides 14 million to make full use of the entire budget of 318 million in northern Sweden, which has not been the case for many years. It is also important that the profitability of these companies increases in the long term. It has been important to find a model that allows the money to be paid out in 2016 and which the EU approves. Agriculture in northern Sweden is important and has a major role to play in a vibrant countryside. If we do not keep the landscape open, the countryside will be impoverished, and we want the whole of Sweden to be able to live and survive. The EU's structural and rural funds are part of this, but the government's industrial policy, rural policy and regional growth policy are also part of it. This is to contribute to the positive development of rural areas and create new jobs, but also to keep jobs. I look forward to finding a model that can solve the problem that has arisen.
i-60c70c793ff02b1c-200	Madam President, I would like I just want to correct Helena Lindahl : It is not only weather but also topography that is taken into account. So there are some other parameters in this. Then Monica Haider explained very well that this is not something that Sweden has decided. These are the demands of the European Commission. It is a requirement that we have a system based on solid foundations. The old system was not in a position to provide that evidence. We've tried that. It won't work. There's no way. I agree with Helena Lindahl that it's strange. It's very strange. It has to do with the EU demanding that the smallest administrative part be used, and what we have in Sweden is the Assembly. We have tried to argue about sharing assemblies, precisely in order to avoid these consequences, but unfortunately that is not something that the European Union has accepted. Those of us living in the northern part of the country know that a congregation up there may even be larger than a German state. So, of course, there's reason to reconsider, but we haven't managed to get to it yet. We shall now try to alleviate this. It is precisely among the peasants who are moved from the old area 1 to the new area 3 that the big ones become. That is why I am glad that we are the first government in a very long time that has raised the level to the maximum by 14 million. Without it, I think it would be difficult to find a system in which we can facilitate the situations that may arise for some. But let us not forget that most people in this system are still winners.
i-60c70c793ff02b1c-204	Madam President, I would like In his reply, the Minister points out that the EU requires scientific and verifiable evidence for the classification of assisted areas. I'm sure that's true, but I think there must be more than temperature differences that can be scientifically proven. The State University of Agricultural Sciences, for example, is an expert on this. They're in jail on a scientific basis that they eat for breakfast, lunch and dinner. It is the same with regard to the county administrative board, which has good control of the local conditions in the area. The same applies to the LRF, which is the farmers' own association. They also have great knowledge of agriculture. My question is: were these organisations contacted to discuss the issue? The information and information I have received – the Minister may correct me if I am wrong – is that it was not done. It seems a little strange to me. One must, of course, somehow talk to those affected by the proposal and its implementation. Otherwise, it'll be strange. You know what a comprehensive impact statement it takes just for someone to get permission to dig a ditch, for example. I think the government should think the same way about the farmers. If you make a major change that will affect that many people, I wonder if you should not have a conversation with them first. I mentioned in my first speech Finland, which has similar national support. They have been based on more parameters than the government has done, and they have been approved by the EU. This is something that the farmers concerned in Finland have also felt is okay, unlike many farmers in northern Sweden. In Finland, physical reality has been taken as a starting point and the laying on of hands when you have had contact with those affected and come up with a system that most people think is good. I wonder if this is impossible to do in Sweden. The result of the climate model, as the Minister for Rural Development says, is a little out of reality. The model based on the old parish boundaries together with the temperature criterion is simply not suitable for Sweden with its large geographical areas. Actually, you could say it's damn unfair. Take Storuman and Vilhelmina municipalities as an example! The Minister for Rural Development is aware of these areas. These are huge municipalities geographically. Storuman is divided into two parish areas. Half of the municipality receives compensation that is worse, and the second part receives a compensation that is better. Vilhelmina Municipality has one parish area. The municipality is on the same geographical wavelength as Storuman and has the better remuneration. As you can see, it will be very difficult to motivate the farmers in the area why it looks like this. I do not think that we from the Swedish side can accept such flaws in a model. It must be up to us to tell it in Brussels. And what happens to the losers? What happens to those who have experienced drastically deteriorating conditions? Should they be compensated in some way, and if so, how? Should a system be introduced to compensate for the effects of the system? That, in turn, goes crazy too.
i-60c70c793ff02b1c-210	Madam President, I would like We note that the new regional aid classification in northern Sweden has negative consequences for some farmers. But of course there are also winners in the system. There are those who receive quite a lot more than they have received in the past. This is the case when we change the support systems; someone becomes a winner, and someone becomes a loser. But the cake is basically the same. At the same time, the government had to find a new model that the EU could approve, as I said earlier. The EU did not approve the old one. It is clear that the government has begun to work on developing a new model based on the biophysical conditions and which can alleviate the consequences for the farmers who are now being affected. I assume that the parties concerned have been contacted in the process of drafting the proposal. I am convinced that Minister for Rural Development Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht is doing what he can to try to correct what may not have been so good.
i-60c70c793ff02b1c-213	Madam President, I would like When you draw boundaries, there'll be problems. The EU is, in fact, a project that should not border borders but remove borders. In this case, however, the EU is making demands on borders, and this places demands on the smallest unit line: assembly. When I listen to Helena Lindahl's arguments, I agree: It does not work out well when you draw boundaries. But what you have just said, Helena, I have heard since 1995 with the limits that we have had and the huge differences in support that have existed before this came into place. There has been an eternal discussion of how wrong the differences struck. As far as criteria are concerned, there are others that the EU accepts: clay content, slope, chemical status in soil and so on. This is analysed by SLU, who has looked at it and concluded that this is the best model for Sweden that can be found. On the other hand, we have huge problems with the fact that we are not allowed to share congregations. Who else has been involved? The LRF has had to give its opinion on this, not only centrally but also by county. The county administrative boards have been allowed to give their opinions. They have been informed, and there have been various opinions. There have been three, four or five labs, and it has looked a little different. As we have today, there have been five areas that have been referred to by one more party. So there is this. When you're doing this kind of limit, I think you'll never find a good and fair system. Finland differs; they have only one compensation area in the north. There is a difference between the areas, but they must not use any criteria other than those that Sweden has.
i-60c70c793ff02b1c-216	Madam President, I would like I know that the LRF has been contacted both nationally and in northern Sweden in terms of the number of assisted areas. I have been in contact with the LRF in northern Sweden. What they are upset about – which I can also understand – is that they have not been contacted and had a discussion about the parameter weather statistics. I do not know whether it was because the government was in a hurry or whatever it was, but what happened was that the government sent this to Brussels, and then the farmers were told. Of course it doesn't feel like much fun. I have met many farmers who feel that this came as a cold shower for them. If the LRF had been involved in deciding that you would only have this parameter, people would not have been so shocked when they found out. Now they are shocked, and this also applies to LRF as an organisation in northern Sweden. I know that the LRF in the north has also written a letter about this to the Minister for Rural Development. I hope we can do it again and do it right. My advice to the Minister for Rural Development is that he will sit down with the relevant organisations, such as the LRF and the County Administrative Board, in order to find a better solution in dialogue for 2017. I understand that this is not possible in 2016 because it is already clubbed in Brussels. There is also an opportunity to look at how Finland has solved the issue. I spoke to the Chairman of the LRF Västerbotten last night, and he said that Finland had used parameters other than weather statistics and thus had a fairer system approved by more farmers. There is an opportunity for us to look at how they have done. I see from the Minister's reply that he is open to dialogue and change, and I know that the organisations concerned are also. It's a good start to change, Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht.
i-60c70c793ff02b1c-221	Madam President, I would like I will say once again: this is not something that Sweden has ordered. This is something that we are obliged to do according to the Commission's decision in order to be able to pay any aid in 2016. We're in that position. As far as parameters are concerned, they are the same for all countries. There's no difference there. What our expert authority has looked at is that these parameters provide the absolute best for Sweden. We can't have discussion about weather statistics, because the statistics are provided by SMHI, and it looks like it does, no matter what we think of it. It is a statistic that runs from 1961 to 2010. You can't change that. We will try to minimise the consequences for the very farmers who have ended up in third grade and who have previously been in number one. There aren't many of them, but it'll be serious for them. With this time maximizing the national ceiling to the full, when we raise it by 14 million, we are better able to find models that can overcome the problem. If we later found another system that minimizes this – for example, if we were to share assemblies, which we think makes sense and which the European Union has not approved – then we might get away from this kind of problem. At least there will be less problems if we use that model.
i-60c70c793ff02b1c-224	Madam President, I would like Fredrik Schulte has asked me how I feel that 74 per cent of Sweden's entrepreneurs believe that the government's policy reduces the chances of hiring more people. Fredrik Schulte also asks if I see any problem with only 2 – 3 per cent of Swedish entrepreneurs seeing that the government's various tax increases will have a positive impact on their business and if there is any self-criticism in me. In the survey by the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise referred to by Fredrik Schulte, only 30 per cent of the respondents have chosen to respond. Of the companies that have chosen to respond, a significant proportion indicates that they are not affected at all or only indirectly and are slightly negatively affected by the government's proposal. I therefore wonder whether Fredrik Schulte himself feels any self-criticism when he chooses to present the results as he does in his question. After the previous government's many unfunded tax cuts and ineffective measures, we see large government deficits and high levels of unemployment. In order to cover the deficits, it is necessary to raise certain taxes, in particular to restore those earlier cuts that have proved ineffective, and to implement the necessary reforms to create new jobs. The government takes responsibility for the state finances and implements fully funded reforms to get more people to work. The tax increases that are being made finance investments in infrastructure, education and welfare. I am therefore convinced that the investments we are undertaking together will lead to higher sustainable GDP and employment and lower unemployment in the future.
i-60c70c793ff02b1c-228	Madam President, I would like According to an opinion poll, 74% of all entrepreneurs in Sweden have said that they do not have confidence in government policy or rather believe that government policy is directly detrimental to jobs. The problem is, it doesn't stop there. If you ask the same question to the Swedish people, only 5% say they believe in government policy. 8 percent say they believe in ghosts. So there are more people who believe in ghosts than believe in government employment policy. But it doesn't stop there either. All independent economic assessors, such as the Institute of Economic Affairs and the Council of Finance, believe that government policy will lead to fewer jobs. What the government is proposing goes directly beyond what all international economic assessors and organisations proposed by the OECD and the IMF are proposing. It is even the case that the trade union movement, part of the Social Democracy, goes out and criticises the government for all the massive tax increases proposed by the government. The Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and Industry recently produced a report pointing out that the government's policy will lead to 25 000 fewer jobs. In short, no one believes in government policy, except perhaps Magdalena Andersson. It's no wonder it's that way. What the government is proposing is substantial tax increases of the order of 150 billion over the next four years. We will certainly hear the Minister for Finance say that we must take that money to the Treasury in order to invest in welfare. But that is not true; it is only a quarter, only 25 percent, who go to health care, school and care, while 75 percent go to other things. And this second is not paying off the public debt. On the contrary, the Minister of Finance has now said that we no longer need to concern ourselves with keeping public finances in order. It is so serious that she has today been called to the Committee on Finance to explain what she really means. This money is not used to strengthen education in Sweden. The proposals in the Alliance's 2015 budget, which went through the Riksdag, meant that we would have a ten-year primary school. That's what the government says no to now. We suggested that more money be given to mathematics education in primary school. That's what the government says no to. What is being invested in, Madam President, is to increase subsidies – to increase subsidies for those who do not work, to increase subsidies for construction companies and to introduce various types of so-called labour market policy measures. The government would like to suggest that it is education. But it is not education, it is so-called trainee jobs, so-called extra jobs, fake jobs that you make up, that the research shows that those who participate in the programmes have less opportunity in the future to get real jobs. Ways of concealing unemployment are being opened up. It is done through fake jobs like this, but also by removing the barriers introduced by the Alliance government to stop people from getting sick. This is the wrong way for Sweden. It is a path that will lead to fewer people getting jobs and less resources in the future for welfare. This is a serious development.
i-60c70c793ff02b1c-237	Madam President, I would like I have met young people in Västerås who have trainee jobs in the version they have in Västerås. The young people are doing work in the care of the elderly in Västerås while they are entering vocational education and training. They complete a nursing course at the same time as they do regular work in the care of the elderly. It's called Fredrik Schulte's fake job. It is insulting not only all the young people in Västerås who work in the care of the elderly in these programmes but actually all the nurses who work in the care of the elderly, because it is important work that you do when you are ordinary staff but also when you have a trainee job. No training, says Fredrik Schulte. But it's about regular vocational adult education. Here Fredrik Schulte insults all professional adult education in Sweden and everyone who goes there. However, these are important training programmes, because we know that vocational programmes in high school are programmes that often provide jobs. Fredrik Schulte says that according to this survey, 74 percent of companies are negative to government policy. It is a complete misinterpretation of the results and completely unserious. Companies have only answered questions about what they think about the tax increases. But they have not been allowed to answer questions about what they think about the government's efforts. This is, of course, completely unserious. It is as if companies had been asked whether they want a society where you have no tax, but also no municipal water and sewage and no electricity. If you ask the companies if they want to pay some tax, they answer: No, it doesn't seem good. But if you ask if they want to pay taxes for us to have municipal water and sewers and for us to draw electricity to the factory, the answer is of course a completely different one. But Fredrik Schulte has looked at a survey where you only ask about the actual tax change and not about the overall policy. The government's overall policy responds to the questions that Swedish companies are asking about how they can manage in the future. They wonder how to find the right skilled staff. We know that one in five recruitment attempts fails because companies do not find the right staff to hire. We have a recruitment gap in Sweden. It is a fact that 400 000 people are unemployed while we have 80 000 job vacancies. This gap is now taking the government steps to end the proposals that we have in the budget. It is extremely central to Swedish companies. Another thing that Swedish companies say is central is that the infrastructure works. That is why the government has made a huge investment in railway maintenance. Many companies also say that it is not possible to find staff because people cannot move to the places where the companies are because the housing market is not working. We have a huge housing shortage, not least in our growth regions and here in the Stockholm region. Now the government comes with the biggest housing policy effort of 20 years in this budget. We do this at the same time as we manage to halve the deficits that we inherited after Fredrik Schultes's moderates had been in the government. I am very proud that we have managed to take hold of the state finances, halved the deficits and taken responsibility, not least in the situation that we now find ourselves in when we encounter a large refugee immigration in Sweden, so that we stand on firmer ground compared to what it was at the time when Fredrik Schultes's moderates ruled the Ministry of Finance.
i-60c70c793ff02b1c-246	Mr President, I would like to I understand that the Minister for Finance is under a lot of pressure. There is no one but herself who stands up and defends her politics. As I said, only 5% of the Swedish population believe in the overall picture of government policy and believe it creates jobs. Well, in the study to which I refer, it is the government's overall policy that 74% of entrepreneurs think is detrimental to jobs. Neither the Council of Finance Ministers, the OECD nor the IMF stand up and say that government policy creates more jobs. Nobody does, just Magdalena Andersson himself. I understand because she feels pressured. I fully agree with Magdalena Andersson that the challenge of closing the matching gap in the labour market is one of the toughest and toughest challenges for the Swedish economy. We have almost as many vacancies in Sweden as we have unemployed. The problem is that the unemployed do not have training matching the job vacancies. Then we have the following problem. I can take as an example a person who has previously been a truck driver and becomes unemployed. At the same time, there is a pressing need for infirmary. However, the unemployed truck driver cannot become a nurse by taking an education at Arbetsförmedlingen. To become an infirmary, you have to attend a long regular education. We in the Alliance want to invest more in regular education. We want a ten-year primary school, and we want more mathematics education. It was we who created the professional adult and agreed that there would be more professional adult positions. This is not what the conflict is about. The conflict is about you in the government making up fake jobs, trainee jobs and extra jobs. There the research is very clear that when you have entered such fictional jobs and have completed these programs you are less likely to be employed than you would have had if you hadn't joined these programs. This isn't something I'm making up. These are the conclusions of labour market policy research. What Sweden really needs is that we make it more profitable for people to work. That is why the Moderates are putting forward proposals to reduce tax, that is, what we call the first job deduction. This means that those who get their first job will get better incentives, better driving forces, to get into work. It is about gradually improving the performance of Swedish entrepreneurs so that they can develop and hire more people. That is how the economy grows, not by taxing companies and pushing down and burdening those who work. That's not how you get the resources for welfare. Welfare – care, school and care – must go hand in hand with a growing private sector. Now the Minister for Finance has the idea that she will club the private sector with huge tax increases. She hopes it will solve the problems. But it will not solve the problems. This will lead to fewer jobs, and all independent economic assessors agree on that. The only person who claims it would lead to more jobs is Magdalena Andersson. What is interesting is that previous governments used to count on their policies based on the experience, knowledge and research that exists. What is the effect of the policies we are pursuing? But now all of a sudden the government doesn't. This is because Magdalena Andersson knows that the result is fewer jobs.
i-60c70c793ff02b1c-255	Mr President, I would like to It is one thing that we know the result of, because it is visible in reality, and it is eight years with a moderate government. We see the result. We see higher unemployment, higher long-term unemployment and higher youth unemployment. We see school results falling faster than in any other OECD country, and we see major problems in our common welfare. We see the result of 130 billion in tax cuts. We see these problems at the same time as we see that public finances went with large deficits. What this government has done and is trying to do is to take responsibility for public finances while, at the same time, making the necessary efforts to ensure that young people do not join the long-term unemployed, to reverse school developments and to give our businesses the opportunity and willingness to hire again. Fredrik Schulte says once again that it is fictional jobs when young people work in the care of the elderly in Västerås, for example. I find it insulting to them and insulting to all the important tasks performed by ordinary staff but also by extra staff in the care of the elderly. I am absolutely convinced that there will be a higher quality in care for the elderly if there can be a regular staff and a youth and help at home with an elderly person. The regular can do the more qualified tasks, and the young employee can perform the less qualified tasks. The important thing in this is, of course, that we are trying to close the recruitment gap, and trainee jobs are one of the measures to do so. Fredrik Schulte says that he thinks it is important to stop the recruitment gap. The question then is why the Moderates cut adult education in their budget exercise.
i-60c70c793ff02b1c-260	Mr President, I would like to Sweden was kind of like Carolina Klüft. We can see that Carolina Klüft was not the best in all sports. There are some sports where she did not belong to the world elite. But if you take the average of long jumps, high jumps, running and so on, Carolina Klüft – she has left sport – was one of the world's best athletes. Sweden was about the same. There are examples where Sweden has not developed in the right direction in the last eight years. School results continued to fall, and we did not get rid of youth unemployment. But if you take the overall picture, the development was very clear. Sweden had perhaps the strongest economic development in the whole Western world with more people in work, increased employment and perhaps the strongest public finances in the Western world. This was in spite of an economic crisis in the world that was perhaps the worst that the global economy has ever seen, at least since the Second World War. Magdalena Andersson tries to make a point of unemployment rising. Yes, but unemployment has become an obsolete measure. It is not interesting to look at unemployment. The reason it is not interesting is that Göran Persson and the Social Democrats managed to hide unemployment by early retirement and sick leave. We got the people back the old government swept under the carpet. We got them back to start looking for a job, and it is clear that unemployment will then rise. It is just like when we now see strong refugee flows to Sweden. There will be new people starting day one as unemployed, and then unemployment will increase. Does this mean that Sweden has become worse? No, it doesn't. It is therefore a trixing with figures, and it is wrong for Sweden to raise taxes and subsidies.
i-60c70c793ff02b1c-264	Mr President, I would like to Fredrik Schulte says that unemployment is an obsolete measure. That well explains why the Moderates allowed Swedish youths to go unemployed month in and month out without trying to put in measures to help them. This government has a completely different attitude. We know that it is not good to start your adult life in passivity and by going unemployed month in and month out. We have seen in previous studies that it is very difficult to become permanently established in the labour market if you do not get a first foot into the labour market when you are young. We know that from the 1990s crisis, and we do not want to repeat that mistake. We do not want to repeat the mistakes made in the 1990s. It is therefore important to ensure that young people who do not come to work receive the support they need to get to work, education or training. Therefore, the government implements the 90-day guarantee so that no young person will have to go unemployed for more than 90 days. Fredrik Schulte thinks that unemployment is an obsolete measure and obviously does not care about it. He does not find it interesting to watch young people go long-term unemployed. I have a completely different opinion.
i-60c70c793ff02b1c-267	Mr President, I would like to Lotta Finstorp has asked me, firstly, whether I intend to review the legislation on the taxation of electric buses and, secondly, when a proposal can then be expected. She has also asked me about the justification for the fact that I do not intend to review the legislation. Sweden will take a leading role in the implementation of the UN's new global goals for sustainable development. Emissions from the transport sector are to be reduced. A fossil-free vehicle fleet is a priority for the government. It is regrettable that environmental work has been prioritised over several years, but we have now begun work to reverse developments. The transformation pressure in the transport sector, from the use of fossil fuels to alternatives contributing to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, will increase. Important reforms are needed, such as investment in rail and other infrastructure. The basic principle is that all electricity used in Sweden should be taxed. It is a good principle both for the withdrawal of tax revenue and for contributing to more efficient use of energy. Where derogations are made, there must be a well-founded justification and a practical possibility to delimit the exemption. In addition, an exception must be compatible with EU rules. In order to promote the introduction of electric buses into the market, the Government introduces an electric bus premium. Electric buses have great potential to reduce both climate emissions and air pollution as well as noise. Another measure is investment aid for climate investments, which increases the pace of reaching a fossil-independent vehicle fleet. This could involve investment in infrastructure for charging electric vehicles. The electric bus premium and investment aid for climate investments are both investment aid for new technologies. Electric buses are a good example of new technologies that are more expensive to invest in than conventional technologies – but cheaper to use. There is therefore more reason to support investment in new technologies than to support the operation of the buses. I cannot now speculate on what further proposals the government will be presenting for the rest of its term of office.
i-60c70c793ff02b1c-273	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply. Public transport is one of the most important pieces of the puzzle so that we can solve the societal challenges of our time, not least with regard to the environment but also with regard to congestion. More people are moving to big cities, and more are going to fit on a smaller area. That is why we need to be even better at travelling collectively, and in order to make this possible public transport must be an attractive means of travel. Factors such as punctuality, price and frequency play a major role in people's setting of the car and choosing a collective mode of travel. It is therefore important that public transport is given the right conditions to be a good alternative to the car. Among other things, the alliance government did well. The new Public Transport Act was introduced in 2012 to get even more public transport contractors to enter the market and thus expand the supply. This also applies in sparsely populated areas. The big cities need this because more people move there and because more cars are too crowded, but public transport must also be accessible and well functioning in the light of the conditions that exist there. What I experienced when I was on the Transport Committee during the last parliamentary term was that the debates in this House always set rubber wheels against iron wheels and tracks. It is quite naive to think that everything will go on track in Sweden. We'll always have to have the bus. There are also more people who travel on buses today than they are on trains and trams, for example. Therefore, it is very exciting and interesting to see how electric buses are developing today. They are still, in themselves, a rather small proportion – I think it is 0.5% of all buses that go on electricity – but it needs to be stimulated. It is therefore interesting and good to see that the government is investing precisely in investments in electric buses. However, one forgets to see the whole picture. The electricity used by the buses is taxed, and public transport will not be competitively neutral. In the case of trains on track, electricity is not taxed, but electricity from the electric bus is taxed. That's why I've put this interpellation to the minister. Why is it that we do not want to stimulate the fuel of electric buses as well? It is positive that investment aid is being introduced for further development, but on the other hand it cannot be the case that electricity should be taxed when driving your electric bus. Because then development will not take up the momentum we want. We want there to be more buses – we have a great consensus about that – and that the buses run with good fuel, which is electricity. However, with the taxation that exists today, that is not the case, and that is why I have asked the question why this is the case. Why does the government believe that it should be taxation on the electricity used by electric buses but not on rail services operating on the same electricity? The following part of the answer is interesting: a leading role for Sweden in the implementation of the UN's new global goals for sustainable development. Emissions from the transport sector are to be reduced. A fossil-free vehicle fleet is a priority for the government. How, then, is it that the fossil fuel natural gas is completely exempt from energy tax while the pure electricity for the electric bus has a tax?
i-60c70c793ff02b1c-281	Mr President, I would like to I want to thank you very much for the interpellation. This is a very interesting and important question Lotta Finstorp raises. There is a great potential for Swedish industry to be a world leader in developing electric buses. There will of course also be a great export potential in electric buses, which will be able to create a lot of jobs in Sweden. I really appreciate the commitment of a moderate on these issues. It's not only about managing our climate but also really about an example that if Sweden takes precedence, we can create potential for new export revenues and jobs in Sweden – in addition to the fact that there can be a better climate in several other countries. I hope, of course, that Lotta Finstorp works intensively in her own party to ensure that the Moderates support the Government's proposal for an electric bus premium and the other initiatives the government makes for a fossil-free vehicle fleet. Of course, it would be extremely good if the Moderates supported this, but as I understand it, the Moderates do not support the government's electricity bus premium. There are also no proposals to reduce the tax on electricity used by electric buses. Lotta Finstorp asks why you do not pay electricity tax on railway rails but do it if you run buses. By way of information, under EU law, there could possibly be an exemption from taxation for local bus services, but not for regional bus services, so it could not apply to all bus services in Sweden. Having an untaxed bus in regional or long-distance bus services is not possible under the EU acquis, but would be a bus service only within the cities. The government has identified that the problem is rather the purchase of buses. Since it is very expensive to purchase the electric buses, we have directed the subsidy precisely to the purchase of the buses in the form of an electric bus premium. It is important to state here that, with the current electricity tax, the electricity bus is competitively neutral per kilometre compared to buses operating on other biofuels, while there is significantly higher taxation per kilometre on buses operating on fossil fuels.
i-60c70c793ff02b1c-286	Mr President, I would like to It would have been interesting to have an answer to the question about natural gas, which is a fossil energy substance. On natural gas, there is no energy tax. That should be something that the government would like to phase out. A competitive market for public transport must also mean that energy taxation must be competitively neutral. It will be very difficult to see it for the common man and above all for the bus operator who wants to buy an electric bus but who knows that it incurs energy costs for their buses. I see a fear that we will never really speed up investment in electric buses if there is also an unhealthy competition between the types of energy. It would be interesting to hear a further development of this from the Minister for Finance. There is a Council Directive 2003/96/EC, Article 15, paragraph 1(e)– which states that there is a possibility of partial or full energy tax exemption which should also cover all types of electric buses, such as battery-powered buses and plug-in charging hybrids, i.e. not just trolley buses. Here there is a fear, including from the industry, that it would then be said that it is trolleybuses that get tax relief or that the tax is removed on electricity. This is thus stated in the directive on trolleybuses. Here an extensive interpretation of the law could be envisaged, perhaps a solution, so that the trolleybuses were included. Very positive developments are taking place in Sweden on this page today. But it gets very strange when you go in with a premium or investment aid to develop the buses, while there is no idea that the fuel itself will be more competitively neutral. In the answer, the Minister for Finance says: The basic principle is that all electricity used in Sweden should be taxed. Fine! In that case, it should therefore include trains and trams. This is a good principle, continues the Minister of Finance, both to withdraw tax revenue and to contribute to a more efficient use of energy. If derogations are to be made, there must be a well-founded justification and a practical possibility to delimit the exemption. In addition, an exception must be compatible with EU rules. But this basic principle is not true today. In that case, certain transport operations should not be exempt from electricity taxation if the answer from the Minister for Finance is correct and concrete. It would be very nice to have it further developed.
i-60c70c793ff02b1c-293	Mr President, I would like to The government's assessment is that the cost per kilometre of an electric bus is significantly lower than that of vehicles powered by fossil fuels. The fuel tax for an electric bus is SEK 0.45 per kilometre, while for a diesel bus it is SEK 2.20 per kilometre. For the biodiesel buses, such as FAME, the fuel tax is SEK 0.47 per kilometre – about the same as for the electric bus. In order to find the best way to get a greater use of electric buses started, the assessment has been that it is more important to go on the purchase, because buying an electric bus is considerably more expensive than a conventional bus. That is why the government has opted for aid through a premium instead. That is the background to the government's proposal. Does Lotta Finstorp think that an electric bus premium is good or not? Should I understand Lotta Finstorp's argument that she thinks that you should remove the electricity tax just for electric buses? If so, what support does Lotta Finstorp have for this policy in her party? It would be very good if the Moderates had a little more environmental suggestions, because it has been very empty on that front in recent years.
i-60c70c793ff02b1c-297	Mr President, I would like to I am very happy to answer the questions I received from the Minister of Finance now. What the government is doing is stimulating one part, that is, investment. I believe that it must be done as a whole and would very much like to see exactly the kind of proposal that we are putting forward. If I understand the Minister of Finance correctly, the electricity tax on buses should remain in place because the Minister considers it to be such a cheap part of the electricity bus service itself. It is not the level of costs that is the problem but the neutrality of competition. The vehicles on railway tracks, both trams and trains, are exempt from the electricity tax but not the electric bus. My whole question in the interpellation is why buses should be taxed for their fuel but not for trains and trams, because then the basic principle of the Minister for Finance's answer is not correct, that all electricity used in Sweden should be taxed. There have been exceptions to what goes on tracks, but what goes on rubber wheels is electrically taxed. I don't understand the logic of it all. I hope that the government will find an overall solution with a premium for investments but also review this with electricity taxation for buses.
i-60c70c793ff02b1c-301	Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, it is not possible to achieve competition neutrality because this is governed by the EU acquis. It is not possible to remove the tax entirely on electric buses except for those who operate in local traffic. As far as regional and long-distance bus services are concerned, it is not possible to reduce the tax. This would be possible on local bus services, but not at zero, but at the lowest level to the EU's minimum levels of taxation. Competition is therefore not compatible with EU rules. That would not be possible even if you wanted to do it. Lotta Finstorp thinks that you should do both. Unfortunately, however, in order to avoid large deficits in public finances, priority must be given to finance ministers and governments. Here the government has made the assessment that the money is best used with an electric bus premium because the big cost is precisely to buy in the buses. On the other hand, it is cheaper to drive the buses than if they are driven on diesel. That is why the government has made this priority, and politics is often a matter of prioritising. You can't do everything. You have to choose.
i-60c70c793ff02b1c-303	Mr President, I would like to Helena Bouveng has asked the Minister of Finance how she sees changes in the budget bill's tax collection from people reducing incentives for higher studies. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. The Government's goal is for Sweden to be a leading knowledge and research nation. To achieve this, the Government proposes various measures to ensure that Sweden develops as a knowledge society. Higher education creates a well-trained workforce, which provides the conditions for research and increased knowledge. Education and research provide Sweden with an opportunity to meet the major societal challenges of the future and are crucial for future jobs and Sweden's competitiveness. In the last ten years it has become more difficult to enter higher education programmes, and at the same time the expansion of the university has stopped – this despite the fact that the number of applicants to the university has been very high. In order to give more opportunities to study in the university, the government is now implementing a comprehensive expansion that in 2019 is expected to have led to an increase in the number of full-year students by 14 600. The extension also includes targeted initiatives for more training places that can lead to employment in occupations where there is currently a shortage of trained staff. Higher education graduates have long had lower unemployment than the low-skilled regardless of the economic situation. Higher education therefore provides a more secure labour market position. Higher education also opens the door to a larger part of the labour market. Many academics change their profession several times during working life, which can lead to a more developing working life and better wage development. Government investment in higher education is investment both for individuals and for society.
i-60c70c793ff02b1c-311	Mr President, I would like to Saco recently presented a study on the impact of academic studies on living wages that shows that the average profitability of all academic programmes is 16 percent. However, there are significant differences between the most and least profitable educations. The least profitable has a negative result of 10 per cent. Many of the academic courses are therefore not economically profitable when compared to having only upper secondary education. So you can expect financial loss of life because you have chosen to study after high school. The losers belong to many of our teachers. These are well-trained teachers, whom I think both I and the Minister think we need so much. Instead of making education more profitable, the red - green government is doing the opposite. It will pay less to further educate yourself. This is done by degressive job tax deductions and, above all, by not adjusting the cut-off point of the person paying government tax upwards with wages. This means that over 100 000 more people will pay government tax. Many of them have chosen to further educate themselves. Teachers are not the only ones affected. Insurance advisors, auditors, investigators, specialist nurses and preschool managers are just a few examples of other professions. That's 47% of all our police officers, 53% of all our administrators and 37% of our midwives. Mr President, I would like to For me and my party, this is problematic. Further training must pay off so that more people, not fewer people, feel motivated to give up pay for several years and instead take out loans to make it through their studies. It must be seen as an investment for the future, not just for yourself, but, as the Minister said, for Sweden as a whole. Education must really pay off so that even young people from ic-academic background dare to take the step into colleges and universities. As TCO's Eva Nordmark stresses so important, the high marginal tax has an impact on the willingness to develop skills during working life. ..................................................... Therefore, I wonder if Helene Hellmark Knutsson believes that it should pay to continue studying at higher education and universities. Should not skills development and greater responsibility pay off? Does the Minister think that there will be more or fewer people who choose higher studies if the signal from the Red-Green Government is that it does not always pay off?
i-60c70c793ff02b1c-319	Mr President, I would like to Helena Bouveng continues with the thesis that higher taxes mean that fewer people want to educate themselves. We do not see that there is such a strong connection that she is trying to assert. After the military tax was introduced, the number of students increased eight years in a row, and it has continued to increase. It is rather access to places at the university that determines how many people can read further. Wage development is different for different groups also in the academic field, within the Saco area. One of the things we have highlighted is the weaker wage development for teachers, which means that we have a lower search pressure for teacher training than we need. We need to train around 65 000 teachers in the coming years. To do that, we need to expand the number of places on teacher training, as the government does. We also need to ensure that it becomes a more attractive profession and that there is a higher quality of teacher training. We're working on all of this. We have announced the Teacher's Salary Lift, which has been given a referral. This is an investment of 3 billion on an annual basis for better wage development. Saco's evidence shows that it is rather wage dispersion that makes wages too low in certain professions. This applies, for example, to the teaching profession. Here we need a much better wage development, which we are now fixing. Lifelong learning is something we intend to tackle, and we share the view of the importance of it. For example, it is about access to independent courses so that you can complement an academic education. I note that during the eight years that the Alliance was responsible for reducing the number of independent courses, which we have just taken part in an investigation. It shows that it is more difficult for people to supplement their higher education when the supply is reduced. We will look at how we can ensure that there is a real opportunity for further education throughout our working lives.
i-60c70c793ff02b1c-327	Mr President, I would like to It is exciting that the Minister is just taking up teacher training. But what does it matter to increase the number of places if the income of life shows that studying as a teacher is not worthwhile? The search pressure is also very low. Our Swedish welfare is mainly paid through taxes. It is a model that has benefited us well with historically good economic, social and human development. Historically, we can see that social mobility has been much greater with us than in those countries that have chosen that responsibility for welfare rests more on the individual. I think both the Minister and I think that is very good. At the same time, we know that taxes affect behaviour. The tax on alcohol is a shining example. A high alcohol tax should not only give clutter in the treasury, but we also want people to drink less alcohol. But if the tax is raised too much, people choose to go to neighbouring countries and shop, or the forest star's production is back again. How wise, then, will it be to tax alcohol even higher? The same logic should apply if work is taxed too heavily. When it pays too little, there are simply fewer people who want to work more, fewer who want to take responsibility and fewer who want to invest in education. As the responsible Minister for Research, the Minister will be aware that research in this area shows broad agreement on the harmful nature of marginal taxes. Just recently, the proposal was called to further increase the marginal tax rate for completely crazy by Professor Lennart Flood, School of Economics at the University of Gothenburg. He showed that the measure would have little or no income effects on the state, but that it would reduce employment by between 2 000 and 34 000 jobs. The Red Green Government has promised the Swedish people to have Europe's lowest unemployment rate, and it has ambitions to continue building our knowledge society. Since research shows that increased marginal taxes provide little or no additional resources for our common well-being, I ask Helene Hellmark Knutson: Does the symbol policy of the Red-Green Government weigh more heavily than more people choose to further educate themselves, take more responsibility and work for several hours? If fewer people choose to continue their education, it doesn't matter if the higher education places become more.
i-60c70c793ff02b1c-335	Mr President, I would like to We see that there is still high pressure for higher education. Unlike the previous government, we therefore choose to expand to meet the skills needs and student demand that exist. It is also the best way to get to the social bias, with which nothing happened during the years you ruled. We did not get more students from non-academic homes during that time because higher education was not expanded. Now we do, but we have also commissioned the Swedish Council for Higher Education to map the work of reducing social misrecruitment and broadening participation in higher education. Higher education is important, and more people need it both because we see a labour market need and because it leads to lower unemployment. Saco has not included this in his investigation. Having a higher education system reduces the risk of unemployment. There is also greater access to the labour market as a whole, which means that academically trained people change jobs more often. However, much remains to be done. The School of Education does not exist but is now an integral part of our higher education institutions, and there is a new teacher education in place. The search pressure for that education is now increasing, and that is positive. This means that we can really expand, and we do. But, as I said, we need to ensure that there is a better wage development. It seems that the strongest connection when it comes to a good salary during the lifetime has to do with the possibility of developing the salary during the time you work. The low wage spread professions provide a lower living wage, and high wage spread occupations provide a higher living wage. We are now working together with the parties to ensure that teachers, for example, get better wage development. We see a much stronger connection there. I hope that together we can make the teaching profession much more attractive. Unfortunately, you do not have such a teacher wage initiative in your budget motion, Helena Bouveng, but I know that there are other bourgeois parties supporting it. There is broad agreement that we need to invest in teachers. That's a good thing.
i-60c70c793ff02b1c-342	Mr President, I would like to Now I have listened carefully to Helene Hellmark Knutsson, and I still have no answer as to how higher marginal taxes lead to more graduates, that more people choose to take responsibility and that more people choose to work a few extra hours. No economist is needed to realise that if the exchange decreases when you work more, take on new challenges and educate yourself, you simply choose something else. When it pays badly to invest in the job, fewer people will choose the job. Marginal taxes affect a lot of choices in people's everyday lives. They affect decisions on work, leisure time, studies, parental leave and how long you choose to work. Margin tax is largely about the difference between pay and leave. I ask Helene Hellmark Knutsson once again: How do we strengthen Swedish competitiveness, how do we increase the drivers for more hours worked and how do more people choose further education and higher education with marginal taxes of 60 percent?
i-60c70c793ff02b1c-346	Mr President, I would like to I thank Helena Bouveng for the discussion. I answered the question in my first speech. The connection is weak if we look at what it has looked like over time. The number of individuals in higher education has increased steadily since the 1990s, regardless of the tax policy pursued. For example, the number of students increased for eight consecutive years after 1995, when the so-called military tax was introduced. Most important to get people to choose higher education is the choice – that there are places. During your eight years, you chose not to expand higher education, Helena Bouveng, which allowed a lower proportion to move on to higher education. You also chose not to make sure that there were proper independent courses so that it was possible to further educate yourself when you had an academic education. Nor did anything happen to the social misrecruitment of higher education during the time you were in government. Let's look at all these things. If we are to get people to train as teachers, for example, it is important to have an education of the highest quality. We need places all over the country. We must also ensure that the teaching profession is attractive. Together with the parties, we invest 3 billion in salary development for teachers to make the profession more attractive and ensure that wages increase over time so that wage developments are positive. The connection we see is that if life's income is to be good, there is a need for wage development during working life.
