i-f0e927413d116c77-1	Mr President, I would like to Jonas Sjöstedt has asked Ylva Johansson what her timetable is for implementing measures to tackle fraud and exploitation in the haulage industry. The work within the government is so divided that it is I who should answer the question. Jonas Sjöstedt refers to the fact that among drivers and serious hauliers there are high expectations that the government will quickly take a strong stance, and he believes that many proposals will be delayed. Jonas Sjöstedt also lists a number of examples of such proposals. I would now like to comment on what the government is doing in connection with these proposals. The Government intends to continue its work to review and tighten up the Postings Act. Work is now under way to implement the Enforcement Directive to the Posting of Workers Directive in Swedish legislation. In addition, the Parliamentary Posting Committee has recently submitted its report to the Government. On 1 October, the Swedish Transport Agency was asked to review whether the current regulation of carrier liability creates sufficient conditions for order and order in the transport sector. This is part of a major assignment to the Swedish Transport Agency to be sub-reported on 15 March 2016 and final report on 1 May 2017. With regard to the strengthening of penalties for infringements and the extension of the possibility of keeping a vehicle, I would mention that this is part of the Transport Agency's mandate from 1 October. The Swedish Transport Agency, in close consultation with the Swedish Police Authority and the Swedish Customs Agency, will monitor the new provisions concerning cabotage transport and measures to prevent further travel that has entered into force in 2015. With regard to greater efforts by the police, it is the responsibility of the Political Authority to decide how to organise, resource and implement the activities of checks on professional traffic. With regard to the requirement that the driver has complete documentation to check whether this is a legal cabotage transport or illegal domestic cargo, the government is pushing this issue towards the European Commission. As regards better e public procurement, the inquiry into procurement and conditions under collective agreements in its interim report has, among other things, proposed that contracting authorities should impose specific labour law conditions under certain conditions. The report has been referred to and is currently being prepared in the Government Office. Furthermore, it should be noted that unpaid taxes or social security contributions and other serious shortcomings in the conduct of a supplier's activities may constitute grounds for excluding the supplier from participating in the contract. As regards attempts to limit the period of approval of F-taxes, I can inform you that there is no work going on with such a focus in the Government Office. With regard to the proposal to prohibit the use of F-taxes for only one employer, only those engaged in business activities within the meaning of the Income Tax Act shall use F-tax. Anyone who does not conduct, or intends to do, business in Sweden must not be approved for F-tax. There are examples of judgments in the Labour Court that concern the haulage industry and where the Court has ruled that drivers are to be regarded as employees despite what has been agreed between drivers and companies. An F-tax authorisation may be subject to a condition that it may only be invoked in the course of trade. There is no work going on to change these rules. Concerning social protocol in the EU: The government is doing long-term work to strengthen workers' rights and the position of collective agreements at EU level. The Commission has announced a labour mobility package which will include, inter alia, a targeted review of the Posting of Workers Directive. The government welcomes this Commission initiative and is actively engaged in advocacy work with other EU Member States. Regarding a g ps-supervised road wear charge, the Government decided on 30 April 2015 to set up an investigation to develop a proposal for distance-based road wear tax for heavy goods vehicles. The report shall be submitted by 9 December 2016 at the latest.
i-f0e927413d116c77-9	Mr President, I would like to Thank you to the Minister for Infrastructure for her answer! The Swedish haulage industry is in something that can be likened to a free fall. The bourgeois government did nothing to stop that case. Now it is up to the new government and the Left Party to ensure that developments are reversed. We see that good, secure jobs are being knocked out by companies that systematically exploit unscrupulously workers from other countries who are being offered poor conditions. We see that fine, well-managed Swedish family businesses, haulage companies, have to close down, not because they were badly managed, but because they were well managed. That is why they cannot compete with the companies that cheat. We see along our roads how foreign drivers are at a complete disadvantage to their rogue employers. They work with extremely low hourly wages, sleep in their trucks and can't even afford to stop at the roadside restaurants to eat. Instead, they find themselves in some sort of opposition to the Swedish drivers. It's a bad system with so many losers. We also see how tax money goes by the state. We see how environmental work can stand back. We see that employees do not dare to organise themselves in trade unions because they are then fired by their employers. We must do something about this. Drivers, hauliers, trade unions rightly expect that before the 2018 elections there will be order and order in the Swedish haulage industry. Several of the measures mentioned by the Minister are good. Several of them are ones that we will obviously support. I hope they'll be powerful enough. I hope they're on time. It is not good enough to come after four years and not have done enough. We see it as our task to lie on to ensure that you dare to do what is actually necessary. I also think that we should dare to challenge the European Union. It is not okay for the EU to say that it is reasonable to cheat and not to control cheating, for example in the case of documentation in cars. It is also reasonable to give more resources to the police. I have met drivers who tell me that the police almost stop controlling some cars because you know that you do not have the means to prosecute what is obviously cheating. It is simply not reasonable that this is the case. In three areas, I would like to ask the Minister whether she is prepared to go further than what she says in her reply, if she is prepared to take more concrete measures. Orderer responsibility and main contractor responsibility are fundamental, i.e. that the person ordering a transport is responsible for the driver's working conditions. If Volvo sends its car parts by truck, it is up to Volvo to ensure that there are fair conditions. If Postnord does the same, it's Postnord's job to make it work. That is the basis for solving some of the problems. Is the Minister prepared today to say that the government expects companies that have state ownership – such as Postnord, Systembolaget and others – to ensure that the hauliers that run for them have fair conditions? Are you prepared to say: we are asking you to take care of this properly, because that is how state companies will behave. In the second area, there is a way of solving the morass of F-tax notes, foreign agencies and the various models that exist to circumvent what is to apply in the Swedish labour market. This model exists in the Netherlands and is called the Dutch model. In the Netherlands it is required that if you are going to drive for a Dutch haulage company, then you must have permanent employment and collective agreements. Is the government prepared to implement the Dutch model in Sweden, so to speak, to cut off the possibility of systematic cheating with F-tax notes and foreign agency agencies? A third area is that a social protocol in the EU would reverse the burden of proof. This would put employees' rights before companies to act as they please. Is the government prepared, when the UK negotiates its conditions for EU membership, to raise the issue of a social protocol in the EU?
i-f0e927413d116c77-28	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to thank Jonas Sjöstedt for asking this very important and absolutely crucial question, not least for Skåne, from which I come. I would also like to thank Anna Johansson for her detailed reply. In Skåne it is about quite a few companies, 400 – 500 workplaces with up to 3 000 employees only in northwestern Skåne with Helsingborg as their base. They say the situation in the industry is at its bottom. Many would like to be fair and honest, but they cannot because of the unhealthy competition that exists. Whoever's best at tax fraud can last the longest. The situation is acute both for these companies and for the employees, but also for those foreign drivers who are often forced into poor wages and conditions, not infrequently in traffic and environmentally dangerous lorries. As a rule, clients withhold large amounts of tax from the Swedish state. The situation is miserable for many of the drivers, and that can be understood by any sane person. Living in your cabin months straight, cooking outside your truck and having to be away from your family does not create a healthy situation. This is a race to the bottom. It is not an individual question of the individual driver or even the individual haulage company, but a system error. The only winner, as I see it, is multinational companies and freight forwarders, who earn the big money from not offering decent conditions. The Transport Workers' Association's section 14 in Helsingborg is called several times a year to negotiations with companies that want to reduce their costs in order to be able to compete better in the market for the assignments. Not long ago, for example, there was MBL negotiations at Haanpää AB, where 18 out of 36 employees lost their job. Haanpää's plan was to hire drivers in its Estonian subsidiary at lower wages and with lower taxes. The reason, of course, was that they needed to squeeze the price in order to compete on the market. Mr President, I would like to Many things are good in the Minister's response. But one thing that worries me is that nothing seems to be done in the field of the F tax. We should make sure we tighten up the regulatory framework. When the Minister refers to AD rulings, it is clear that it is a long way to go for the individual to be able to pursue his or her cause, which most of course do not. Given that the system is being abused and that the fears about the effect of bourgeois change in 2009 in this area have come to light, it should clearly be easier to do the right thing. What is the reason why the government does not choose to push the F tax issue to strengthen labour law as well as the worker? What is the reason why the Dutch model, which Jonas so well described, has not been considered by the Swedish Government? Another thing that concerns me is that the government's work on ordering responsibility started far too late, on 1 October this year. We know that today's system is a blow in the air and does not get to those who are in real power. It simply seems impossible to prove liability at the top, and it is often not considered economically viable to pursue the cases in law because it is too low a penalty. A new system must, in my view, ensure that both the freight forwarder and the end customer, who are the actual client, are held liable with sanctions that are powerful and tangible, such as fines in relation to the profits or turnover of the end customer. My question to the Minister is, given that the Transport Agency's review will be finalized on 1 May 2017: When can a reinforcement and a strong system be in place in terms of customer responsibility? I also wonder whether the Minister can account for the changes that are necessary in terms of the Minister's perception of the situation in terms of ordering responsibility.
i-f0e927413d116c77-37	Mr President, I would like to It is a very urgent interpellation made by Jonas Sjöstedt, as there are major shortcomings in the haulage industry due to the competition from foreign drivers. For my part, I would like to raise the issue of climate and the environment in this. We are facing a climate challenge. We need to reduce truck transport, because they carry a large part of Swedish emissions. Unfortunately, that is not the case today. Rather, they are increasing. We ship an enormous amount of goods on our roads. Grocery stores and other grocery stores have stopped stockpiling, and large parts of the warehouse are on our roads. At the same time, a large part of our goods are produced to break quickly rather than to last as long as possible, which means that we have to buy new ones in large quantities. The quantity of goods on our roads is therefore enormous. All these truck transports of all these goods pose a danger both to our climate and to road safety, especially in southern Sweden. We must reduce the amount of environmentally hazardous transport. It is very positive that Stefan Löfven raised the topic of circular economy in the Government Declaration. It is a mode of production that requires products to last as long as possible and then be recycled. I hope that the government will come up with an action plan on this in order to reduce unnecessary shipments of unnecessary products that break down quickly. Working conditions in the haulage industry are a very important part of the price pressure that is causing prices for lorry transport to be kept so low. It is important both from a social and environmental point of view to meet reasonable working conditions. A period of liberalisation has led us to waste both people and the environment so that companies can make big profits. It doesn't make sense. It is good that we are being told about the things that are now happening to deal with cheating and illegal competition. At the same time, however, it is important that work continues to tighten up the rules for protecting workers and to ensure that lorry transport does not take place excessively cheaply. I am now going to the climate summit in Paris together with Jonas Sjöstedt and Jens Holm from my party. There we will closely follow the climate negotiations. But then we have to ensure that the climate agreement can operate here at home and that we also go further, because it is likely that the agreement will not be as ambitious as it really has to be. One of the biggest challenges we have is to tackle truck transport. Here we must work effectively and make sharp demands. These are important demands that Jonas Sjöstedt raises in his interpellation. We want to go a little further than the government. I hope that the government can think further about these things, such as the F tax note and the Dutch model, which have clearly shown positive effects on wage formation and led to better working conditions. I hope that the government will nevertheless take a closer look at this. I would like to hear Anna Johansson's answer on that.
i-f0e927413d116c77-44	Mr President, I would like to I agree with the interpellant and the rest of you that this is an important interpellation. Above all, it is an important issue, one of the issues to which I, as a new minister, have devoted the most time and effort since last year. Part of the problem with this issue is that it moves on many different leads and levels. It is partly about general labour market rules that we need to look at, not least in relation to EU legislation, but it is also about some sector-specific issues. It's a matter of finding what's what here. It is very easy to say that many measures should be taken aimed at this particular industry, but I also believe that there is a point in ensuring that the rules we have for the labour market apply to as broad a part of the labour market as possible and that we get as little special legislation as possible for different parts of the labour market. Having said that, I would like to say that we have done quite a lot, not least in terms of pressure at European level. Many of the problems we see are that freedom of movement within the EU, which is fundamentally very positive, has also led to some problems in terms of working conditions. I think it is important to point out again and again, both for the Commission and for other Member States, that freedom of movement must not exist at the expense of social conditions and environmental considerations in the Member States, because then the free movement of the market will be very expensive for society as a whole. As far as ordering responsibility is concerned, it goes without saying that state-owned companies should set an example and act in a way that inspires public confidence. It's in their owner's directives. This also applies to other companies. I believe that ordering responsibility is, in fact, one of the most important keys to these issues; as long as there is a market for these very unhealthy transports, they will also continue. It is, of course, important that we have regulations and that we monitor and control, but also those who buy transport have a responsibility. It is important to market it, so to speak, self-cleansing. Customer responsibility is an extremely important issue. Therefore, we have also said that we want an interim report on customer responsibility, not in May 2017 but in March 2016. What is to be reported later is, in particular, a review of how changes in the field of classification, detention and fines have worked. We have considered it too early to draw those conclusions after less than a year. That's why they're coming later. We look at many different parts. On the Dutch model, we have said so far that we do not really believe it to be effective. It is also with reference to what I started with. The rules applicable to the labour market must be as general as possible. There are several ideas. These are temporary work agencies, F-tax notes and short-term forms of employment. Overall, we need to look at whether the rules we have are adequate. We are definitely prepared to look further at it. The issue of social protocol has been looked at by both MEPs and the Swedish Government. It is important to deal with these issues in such a way that we do not run our heads against the EU and therefore cannot come back and get a good regulatory framework. It is about acting in such a way that the best is not the enemy of the good. It is about finding ways forward where we can convince the EU to take steps in the right direction. All in all, I hope that the discussion on this and paying attention to the issue, such as the Transport Workers' Association, will help to create an awareness that we have something in Sweden that most of all resembles the slave trade.
i-f0e927413d116c77-54	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Infrastructure. We agree in several areas. It is so important that this is successful. It's a sort of test for a government that calls itself red. Is this being taken seriously or not? Are employees' rights protected? The drivers around Sweden have the right to request that this be properly addressed. It is complex, and there are several areas. But it has to be fixed. It can also be seen this way: if we allow the haulage industry to fall into a morass of exploitation, tax evasion and unserious entrepreneurship, which will be the next industry where it happens? If we stop it in the haulage industry and reverse development, it is also a protection for the entire Swedish labour market. That is why it is so important to get to grips with this. It is very positive that the Minister says so clearly that she expects government companies to set an example. I hope that state-owned companies will listen and that the trade unions in them will look at how the companies are doing. It is not always the case that state-owned companies ensure that their transport is carried out with companies that treat employees well and have collective values and that they ensure that it is not cheated on the Swedish labour market. That's a good news. It is something that you do not have to wait for legislative changes to do, but you can do it here and now. With regard to the whole problem of rogue companies shifting between different forms of F-tax, foreign agency work agencies and Swedish agency agencies, the risk is that if a gap is closed, they only use another loophole in the regulatory framework. This is the strength of the Dutch model. They say that if you run a haulage company in the country you should have the drivers employed, and they should have reasonable conditions. If it is a working peak and you have to take in more, there are rules for it so that they also have good conditions. It is reasonable to implement the Dutch model in Sweden. Otherwise, there is a risk that we will close a loophole, and then the rogue companies will only continue in a different way. They drag it into long legal proceedings and let time pass. Meanwhile, poor poor drivers from Macedonia, Bulgaria and Lithuania are being ruthlessly exploited along our roads. For me, it is a matter of being worthy of fair terms. They are worth as much pay and as good treatment as their Swedish colleagues are. It is a question of not pitting wage earners from different countries against each other with all the bad it means in a society like ours. In fact, the issue of social protocol in the EU is also about this. I wish that Sweden could take the lead in reversing the primitive logic of the market which is the basis of the EU Treaty. For the EU, it is more important for companies to move labour freely than for them to be treated well. It is the basic principle of looking at employees and their rights as a commodity in a market that is a large part of the problem. Some are the Laval ruling and that it is not possible to check properly whether companies are cheating or not. A social protocol would reverse that. It would say: You are welcome to work in another country – I think that's important to state – but you should be treated at least as well as the employees in that country. The UK is now negotiating another type of derogation from the EU Treaty. I cannot understand why Sweden does not take the opportunity and at the same time push these issues. I would like to remind you that before the elections you promised: we will demand a social protocol in Europe. Do it! You also promised before the election: we will run the Dutch model. Do it! If you do this forcefully, you can solve this and we can ensure that we reverse the very poor development of the labour market throughout the European Union.
i-f0e927413d116c77-62	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that Anna Johansson points out that the commission responsibility report will be presented at the beginning of next year. I will come back to you with the question: When is there a strong customer responsibility in place? I would also like to follow up on this issue. If we agree that this is one of the important questions: is it important that the person who has actually placed the order, that is, the end customer, be able to get severe penalties and be held responsible for his order so that it works fully out? I would like to make one more point in the discussion. This is about the lack of registration of companies operating in Sweden. The Swedish Tax Agency points to this problem and says that one of the biggest problems is that there is no registration of all companies, foreign and Swedish, operating in Sweden. They point out that the Swedish Work Environment Authority's register of postings, which is entirely voluntary, where you must register voluntarily and without controls and sanctions, does not work. They put it this way: It could even be that Kalle Anka can report his company Ankeborg transport AB without anyone being able to react at all. I do not see that the government has taken any initiatives or done anything in this area. I would like to ask the Minister whether the Minister intends to take an initiative whereby any company operating in Sweden, foreign or Swedish, may be in such an open register with transparency and clarity.
i-f0e927413d116c77-67	Mr President, I would like to As Jonas Sjöstedt said earlier, we should, as red-green and red actors, set the possible collective agreement requirements that we can in Sweden. It is a little strange to say that we should not distinguish an individual industry when it is such a central issue for a red government to secure collective agreements. If we were to do that, it could be a lever towards Europe, and we could make several countries go behind, just as Holland is now a lever for us to use in the debate. It's strange that the government doesn't think differently here. I hope it reconsiders. I'm getting back into the environmental issue. We could achieve environmental objectives much better in several ways if we set higher standards. Today, many trucks travel unfilled because of the cheap cost of foreign transport. The Swedish truck voles have higher environmental requirements and a higher environmental performance on their trucks. If they were to be favoured, it would also be good for the environment. Here the state-owned companies, mentioned by Jonas Sjöstedt, could go ahead and directly here and now start ordering good transport from Sweden with reasonable working conditions and collective agreements. I would like to ask the Minister for Infrastructure, Anna Johansson, how she views it and how they could be steered in this direction. I hope that the work will continue on this issue and that efforts are being made to push as much as possible. It is a major challenge to overcome truck transport in Sweden. That is where major climate emissions have increased. It is very sad with this pressure on both the work environment and the environment.
i-f0e927413d116c77-70	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start this line by saying that we should also be careful to pay attention to the serious companies operating in this market in Sweden. They work quite hard to maintain the right conditions and deliver high quality services to just the reasonable conditions that we demand and with great environmental concerns. I think there is a danger of talking only about the problems in the industry. It gives the impression that there are no serious road hauliers, and it certainly does. I have met several of them, who describe precisely this difficult competition from the less serious but also their own work. It is also possible to compete by offering a high quality product. I would like to emphasise this. There is one point in, for example, the Fair Transport label, which several devote themselves to. There is an opportunity when we talk about ordering responsibility to make it easier for transport buyers to choose a fair transport and environmentally friendly transport. We have several challenges in this area. It is a question of maintaining the right conditions in an industry for workers, and it is a question of maintaining the right conditions of competition, which do not compete with lower wages and conditions and by avoiding tax liability, but by offering a good product, innovation and development. We also have a challenge as the whole transport sector needs to reduce its negative climate and environmental impact. All these parts can be captured in the same type of regulations. For example, when we are now working on introducing a road-wear tax, the idea is to achieve several of the objectives at the same time. It is important to have a cost that makes you bear your own costs, that we have a better opportunity to control transport in terms of how far you drive and rest times and that it becomes an environmental impact. Overall, I believe that this change, together with ordering responsibility and further measures, will take us towards a situation where we will get a better order on the market. Having said that, however, I would like to point out that this is not the only industry that has these or similar problems. They exist in quite a few industries. This means that I believe that we should avoid having specific legislation for certain sectors in relation to general labour market rules dealing with forms of employment and other forms of employment, which should reasonably be the same regardless of where you are in the labour market. I believe that there is much to be learned from the cooperation between authorities in controlling and securing both from the Tax Agency and others that those who do not comply with the regulations are being put to work. We have seen this not least in the restaurant business. This means both that the State receives its tax revenue and that it can curb unfair competition. Much remains to be done here, but it is the government's absolute ambition to get an improvement in this area. We need healthy farming in Sweden, and we need healthy farming in Europe. With the measures that the government has now taken and will take, we will take major steps in this direction. Sweden has an impact on the EU. The Commissioner is now saying that social conditions in the industry are important. No one has said that before, and I believe that Sweden's influence has had some significance.
i-f0e927413d116c77-79	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Minister for Infrastructure for the debate and for the answers that are going in the right direction. I hope that action will also be taken in the right direction before the next elections. I agree that the good haulage companies should be mentioned. There are many of these in Sweden, but they are fighting for their survival today. It is they who should be the winners – those who treat their employees best, those who have the best environmental work and those who are the most long-term and invest. That is exactly what the intensification of the field would lead to: that the best become the winner. Now it's the worst, the cheats, who bring home the big bucks. Therefore, work cannot be voluntary, but it must be rules that apply to everyone throughout the market. As far as ordering responsibility is concerned, I agree that it is crucial. This should apply to more sectors. The construction industry is a typical example where the corresponding discussion is ongoing. It is not an obstacle to tighten up several sectors at the same time in this area. When it comes to F-tax and temporary agency work, which is one of the major loopholes, I think it must be seen that the haulage industry has particular problems and that there are therefore specific reasons for implementing the Dutch model in Sweden as well. I call on the government to implement the Dutch model here too! It would eliminate so many problems at the same time, and it would mean that many of the rogue actors would have to get their act together properly. It has to happen before the elections. The issue of social protocol in the EU is a crucial issue not only for the labour market in Sweden. If more countries push this forward and we make it happen, the workers in those countries that are the most vulnerable will, above all, win the most. It is the workers in Lithuania, Romania and other countries who would benefit most from Sweden pushing the issue of a social protocol in the EU. Therefore, I urge you to take that fight! Do not leave it for the duration of its term of office. Go in and take it now that the opportunity exists!
i-f0e927413d116c77-84	Mr President, I would like to Yeah, we're gonna take the fight. But we are not going to do it in a way so that we risk losing that battle and thus losing the war, but we are going to act in a way so that we actually change the conditions for the better for real. It is about seeing what conditions exist in Europe today to push for a social protocol that we can bring with us more Member States, which makes it implemented. Just taking the fight and losing will make no one happier. It'll just move our positions back. That is why we are now working rather intensively, not least Ylva Johansson in his field and I in the field of transport, to hold talks with more Member States. It is clear that there are countries that perceive Sweden's position on this issue as protectionist. It is believed that we primarily want to protect Swedish hauliers from foreign competition. This is not what we are talking about; we welcome open competition. But it's supposed to be on equal and fair terms. For us, this is what it is all about. I think we need to inform some Member States about how their citizens are treated in Sweden because we do not have the tools to ensure decent working conditions in the haulage industry. We will continue our work. We will, of course, look at all the possibilities available. But we are not going to make changes that simply become placard politics, that we do not believe are leading forward or that we believe can bring other, more negative, effects. I also believe that we need to look at both the general measures across the labour market and the more specific ones for this industry. I hope that we will have a new interpellation debate on the subject in a year's time or so, when we can see that we have taken steps forward and are seeing an improvement in this area.
i-f0e927413d116c77-89	Mr President, I would like to Emma Wallrup has asked me whether I intend to take the initiative because the experience of Norway's conscious commitment to greener shipping will also reflect itself in measures to realise the vision of the Swedish maritime strategy and whether I intend to promote the adoption of a national objective to reduce the climate impact of Swedish shipping. For a number of years Norway has taken a number of initiatives to support environmental investments in the maritime sector. We continuously follow the work done in other countries, not least in our Nordic neighbours. In the maritime strategy presented in August, the government has set out a vision for the development of maritime industries, including maritime transport. The vision is based on sustainable economic, social and environmental development for the sector as a whole. In order to achieve sustainable development, it is essential that shipping, which is essentially an energy efficient way of transporting goods with relatively low greenhouse gas emissions, also further reduce its emissions. Swedish shipping companies are at the forefront of the development of new technologies to reduce emissions. Sweden is also actively working within the International Maritime Organisation (IMO) to reduce the environmental impact of shipping on both air and water. This is important work, not least in view of the global nature of shipping and in order to enable those who are forerunners in the environment to benefit from the investments and developments that are now taking place. The strategy presented by the Government is intended to form the basis for further work on the development of maritime industries in this area, and work on the issues at hand is ongoing within the Government Office.
i-f0e927413d116c77-95	Mr President, I would like to Maritime transport, like rail, is an energy-efficient mode of transport, not least for our freight transport. It transports a large part of all goods imported and exported in Sweden and is of great importance for the flow of goods within the country. The shipping industry accounts for almost 40% of these transports. According to the Left Party, achieving an ecologically sustainable transport system requires both an effort to promote more shipping in order to get a shift from truck transport, as we talked about here earlier, and that we work with maritime emissions and develop cleaner technologies in maritime transport. An extensive investigation has been carried out in the past with the aim of strengthening the competitiveness of maritime transport. The Government adopted this year A Swedish maritime strategy – for people, jobs and the environment. Strategin is a focus document with a vision. We now hope that concrete steps will be taken in this strategy that will really move us forward. I had the privilege of organising an interesting seminar here in Parliament on Norway's green coastal shipping programme a few weeks ago, together with the Maritime Forum. They have worked concretely with five different development programmes where they have developed new technology, had clear goals and worked together with the industry and come a long way. I wonder if the government and the Minister for Infrastructure are going to take a closer look at this a little more concretely to get further. It is a huge challenge ahead of us when it comes to strengthening shipping. Among other things, it is about allowing it to become as competitive as rail and lorry. There, for example, one could look at fairway charges that are unfair, because although there is no infrastructure to maintain, fairway fees should be paid. Similarly, one would have to look at a strategy to strengthen the ports and work with the price picture there. There are many smaller ships that cannot afford to stay in the ports to unload there because it is expensive. This would need to be reviewed in order to promote increased coastal shipping, particularly along the Swedish coast in the Baltic Sea. My supplementary question to the Minister for Infrastructure concerns concrete measures of this kind. What else do we need to do to achieve green shipping, strengthen it and transfer more transport from truck to shipping? It is extremely important, as we talked about earlier, to reduce truck transport in order to achieve the climate targets.
i-f0e927413d116c77-102	Mr President, I would like to It is important to strengthen shipping for many different reasons. On the one hand, shipping is an energy efficient and relatively environmentally and climately sustainable mode of transport, and on the other hand, there is actually spare capacity at sea, while on land on both road and rail we have a fairly limited capacity and in several places hit the capacity ceiling. The Government has an ambition to continue to strengthen shipping and see how we can make it play a greater role in the freight flows that take place within Sweden and between Sweden and abroad, both export and import. We have, among other things, made a decision to introduce tonnage tax in Sweden, which I believe will have a very positive impact on the industry. We have the maritime strategy, which is a basic document for further work. Its follow-up is now under way, and the industries are entering more into the elements specific to them. The maritime strategy is broad in its allocation, and I think it is good because it allows us to see in the strategy the different contradictions that exist between objectives and manage them in a good way. Then we also need to move forward to see how maritime tourism and food production can be developed and how shipping can be further developed. There is now continued work on shipping as a separate industry. I think it is important to look at what Norway has done but also at whether there are other good examples that we can learn from in order to take those concrete steps forward. I am not sure that it is primarily government initiatives that are needed, but close collaboration between the industry's actors and authorities, research and other things can contribute to positive development. I am also thinking, as I said in my reply, that it is important that Swedish companies are already quite advanced in terms of new technologies. It can be a competitive advantage in a global market, and the fact that we push on to get a better greening can mean that Swedish companies can become even more competitive in a global perspective. It is therefore also important that we continue to work intensively on the global stage, including within the IMO, to ensure that regulations are also provided globally to ensure sustainable shipping for the future.
i-f0e927413d116c77-110	Mr President, I would like to Now we are hearing this once again that we are going to adapt to global regulations and initiatives. I think there's a great risk of that. Globalisation and deregulation have forced us to adapt to the environment and, rather, to lower our ambitions in Sweden. Sweden, which is a small country, has rather the greatest opportunity to influence when we go ahead and take our own initiatives, just if Norway has done, where you are ambitious and can inspire others. It can be a stronger lever than sitting in larger forums and as a small country not having a strong voice. I would urge the government to review the maritime strategy so that it becomes so radical that Sweden has ambitious objectives in terms of shipping and the environmental aspect and increased shipping. There is a considerable shortage of capacity on land infrastructure, both on rail and road, so shipping is really needed today. For example, large volumes of forest from northern industries to be transported down to the continent could go by sea and thus reduce the burden on the roads. This could also avoid large investments required for various road projects. Today it takes quite a lot of administration to transport goods in Sweden. It is important that we have an administration that is functional and has environmental and quality requirements, but that we work to make this part better, as is demanded by the maritime industry. However, it is important to maintain quality despite simplifying the pieces that can be simplified. There is a lack of evidence for the size of freight flows that could be moved from land infrastructure and to maritime transport. This could also be further explored in the maritime strategy. It's possible it's coming. I hope so, because it feels like a reasonable measure to start with. It is important to get to grips with the issue properly and not let it become a shelf heater or just something that leads to small measures that improve a little in the edges. We need to take these big steps and make a thorough investigation of how we can move goods from road to shipping in order to both reach our climate goals and gain more space on the land infrastructure.
i-f0e927413d116c77-117	Mr President, I would like to Sometimes it's good to listen. I do not think I said that we should adapt to global regulations in the first place, but I said that we should be in the IMO to push ahead. This is a global industry and a global industry. This means that we can and should go ahead and demonstrate technical solutions and come up with new innovations that both involve environmental improvements and opportunities for good business for Swedish companies. But we also need a change in international regulations if we want to achieve good results in terms of the environmental impact of shipping. If we were to take the lead in such a way that it would be uninteresting for foreign companies to enter Swedish ports, so that instead they only enter the ports of Continental Europe and then drive a truck, we have not achieved much. Of course, we're going first. We will demonstrate and carry out intensive development work in collaboration with the industry. But we also need to ensure that global shipping changes in a more climate-friendly direction. The largest share of shipping in the world is not in Swedish waters. This means that we also need to work at the global level if we are to achieve the world's climate and environmental objectives and a development that can be well below the 2% target. We will continue to work globally within the IMO. We will also press in other ways. I agree with Emma Wallrup: shipping is important and has great potential to take precedence over the environment. When the maritime strategy was adopted in August, it was also clearly stated that it is not a final product, in the sense that we would be finished. The strategy is a platform for further work, based on the different sectors and areas mentioned in the strategy. Shipping is one of the industries and one of the more important. The industry itself is also keen to work to strengthen its competitiveness and to develop. I believe that there is a good opportunity to find a way forward for shipping, to strengthen competitiveness vis-à-vis other modes of transport and to operate in an intermodal transport chain, but also to contribute to reducing the climate and environmental impact and to our environmental objectives.
i-f0e927413d116c77-122	Mr President, I would like to It is positive that the Minister for Infrastructure is saying that this is not the way that we should not go ahead but that we should also be involved in the IMO cooperation. But the Minister for Infrastructure also said that it is not the role of the state to essentially go in and regulate and steer this in the right direction. It's a little problematic. Then you hand over the ball. And this may lead to Sweden not going ahead. In Norway, the state and industry have worked together. That is what has been so successful. They have had a very close dialogue, developed new technologies and made sure that support systems are in place, precisely because they work together to a great extent. The government should look at that and be inspired by it. I would also like to come back to a few concrete pieces. What is needed today is the possibility of transhipment. For example, an entire set could be carried if the infrastructure was better and there were more opportunities for transhipment to rail. We need to meet the needs of reloading both to rail and to maritime transport. There are research groups that do research on truck traffic. They point out that the Finnish Transport Agency is more concerned about building new motorways than about securing strategic nodes where transhipment to shipping and rail is favoured. In connection with this interpellation, I would like to point out that it is good if the Minister for Infrastructure keeps track of it and perhaps has a dialogue with the Finnish Transport Administration and traffic planning there, to press in that direction.
i-f0e927413d116c77-126	Mr President, I would like to Now it is not really the way that the Finnish Transport Agency decides whether to build motorways, railways or anything else. It's based on political decisions. We are currently preparing for the next national plan that will be decided on 2018. An important focus will be a shift in the transport system. With it, we meet both the need for mobility and reduced climate and environmental impacts from the transport sector. I think, as I have said in previous speeches, that it is important that we have cooperation between the state and the operators in the maritime sector and that we look at the good examples that exist. On this issue, there is a total agreement between the interpeller and the government. I also think it is important that we have regulations that promote and push for positive development. But I believe that there are elements in which the state does not necessarily have to be particularly involved. It is about the industry itself taking the initiative. But that does not mean that the state should not do its part. It is absolutely exciting to see what is being done in Norway. But there are also examples in other countries that we can learn from. Swedish companies and the Swedish shipping industry also have many good ideas and have done very well that others can surely learn from. The international exchange and learning from best practice will be an important part of future work to influence also at the global level. I look forward to a positive development also for shipping, in terms of unlocking capacity on land but also in contributing to climate and environmental objectives.
i-f0e927413d116c77-130	Mr President, I would like to Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Linde has asked me what initiatives I intend to take in order to evaluate Sweden's efforts in Afghanistan and what initiatives I intend to take in order for the government to implement a White Paper on Sweden's efforts in Afghanistan. The evaluation is carried out by a special investigator with the support of a two-person secretariat. The investigation is an independent authority and thus operates independently of the government, on the basis of the mandate given in the Comitology Directive. In order to create an independent picture, it is important that the investigation gathers the views and facts of a wide range of actors, organisations and authorities. This is clear from the directives drawn up by the government. The mission of the investigation is therefore to consult the authorities and civil society that have carried out activities in Afghanistan and had contact with the Swedish efforts. This will be done, among other things, through open hearings. On the issue of the White Paper, the Government attaches great importance to evaluating the overall effort carried out by the Swedish authorities, and organisations on their behalf, in Afghanistan in the years 2002 to 2014. The investigator's mission is to present the objectives and results of the overall effort. Where possible, the investigator shall describe the impact of the operation on Afghan society and describe and analyse how governance, coordination and collaboration have worked between the different parts of the operation over time. Finally, the investigator shall make recommendations on the basis of the conclusions drawn. The role, rights and participation of women will be taken into account in the presentation of the impact of the action. The Government has, in addition to this investigation, decided on 1 October to commission the Swedish Defence Research Institute, FOI, to analyse how Swedish participation in the international security force in Afghanistan, ISAF, during the period 2002–2014 has affected the Swedish Armed Forces and its operations. FOI will describe how the Swedish ISAF participation has affected the Swedish Armed Forces as a whole and how the overall military capability has developed over time. Human resources and materiel issues are central to being highlighted. It may also be relevant for assignments to Sida and other authorities to carry out further relevant analyses and evaluations for the current period. Overall, it is the government's clear view that the current independent investigation and the special analysis that FOI has been commissioned to carry out will give a good picture of Sweden's extensive and long-term engagement in Afghanistan and specifically how the Swedish ISAF participation has affected the Swedish Armed Forces and its operations. The work that is now being done to highlight different areas and issues enables us to exploit the experiences gained over time and that important lessons can be presented for future use.
i-f0e927413d116c77-138	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for his reply. The background to my interpellation is obvious. Sweden's military operation in Afghanistan is the most extensive international operation that our country has carried out in modern times. Sweden participated for 13 years in the NATO-led military operation in Afghanistan. More than 9 000 Swedes have participated and served in ISAF. This is a contribution that has cost Swedish taxpayers more than SEK 10 billion. But it has also been an effort that has been extremely costly in human life. At the same time, it has been one of the most controversial and controversial military efforts made by Sweden. Until 2001 and the decision to send Swedish soldiers to Afghanistan we had a tradition in Sweden and in the Swedish Parliament that all decisions in this House to send Swedes abroad in military operations would be made by consensus, in total agreement. The Afghanistan operation abandoned that principle, and we have also almost every time this matter has been dealt with in Parliament, we have had reservations. The disagreement that has existed in this House has also existed in society, with the Swedish people. We have seen during these years that the popular support in Sweden for the effort has continuously fallen. During the last years that Sweden participated in ISAF, there were several polls showing that a majority of the Swedish people, including a majority of the voters of the Social Democrats, wanted the troops to be taken home. In parallel, we have had very extensive and growing aid to Afghanistan. Last year, Afghanistan turned to Tanzania and Mozambique as the country with which Sweden is engaged in the most extensive development cooperation. However, there is a clear difference in how the aid and military operations have been handled. As far as aid is concerned, we have seen a constant increase in the requirements for reporting results. Audit requirements have been increased. Paperwork and administration have increased. At the same time, the Swedish Armed Forces have never been required to report their results. While aid has been evaluated over time and across the board each year, not a single evaluation of the military effort has been carried out so far. Today we can see that while aid organisations are developing ambitious strategic plans and detailed performance matrices, no clear, measurable targets have ever been presented for the Swedish military operation in Afghanistan. That is why, unfortunately, the issues at stake today are far too numerous. What exactly has the military operation achieved? What have been the consequences of the various military strategies chosen over the years? How has the so-called civil-military interaction with civil aid organisations and other civil actors affected the ability of aid organisations to operate in the country? But most importantly, what can we learn from the years in Afghanistan in view of future decisions on new actions? The Government decided in July to set up an investigation to evaluate the overall Swedish operation in Afghanistan in 2002– 2014. However, while countries such as Denmark, Norway and the Netherlands have chosen to set up large, ambitious commissions that have received extensive resources at their disposal and have included independent researchers, the Swedish government has chosen a different path and instead appointed a one-man investigation under a Social Democratic believer. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is therefore why the government did not do the same as the Netherlands and set up an independent Commission under the leadership of an independent and independent researcher. Why was it not done like Norway, which appointed a very large group of experts in the fields of defence and security policy, peace and conflict research, development policy, international law and humanitarian issues?
i-f0e927413d116c77-150	Mr President, I would like to Yes, honourable Members, it is true that Sweden's efforts in Afghan are one of the largest foreign, security and aid policy commitments that Sweden has made. Nevertheless, I think we should be able to say that we are proud of the Swedish commitment to Afghanistan. Through the establishment of an evaluation of Sweden's overall commitment, we want to review how we have worked and learn from different aspects of the work, as we have promised before. We hope that it will also provide lessons for future efforts. Tone Tingsgård was appointed investigator this summer. She is a former Member of Parliament and has extensive experience in defence and foreign policy. Her background as a parliamentary and defence policy with the knowledge and insights it brings is very valuable for her current mission. I have to say, she's seen as an experienced person with integrity. So far, we have not heard any objections to her as a person – on the contrary, I think she has good support for carrying out this task. I saw as an example that the work in the Netherlands is led by a professor of anthropology. I am not saying anything about professors, especially in anthropology, but I think that for such an investigation it may be an advantage that you know something about defence and security policy and also something about politics. We have indicated in the committee directives how and with what methods Tone Tingsgård will work as an independent, independent investigator. It is precisely the intention that we should be able to get a picture of what this cooperation has been like, of the overall context and of what both objectives and results look like. Investigating how governance, coordination and cooperation have worked over time is also included in the directives, as well as making recommendations on that basis. Our investigation tradition is such that we can boast about it. We're used to working on investigations. Enman investigations have a special status, but the way of working is open and inclusive. I am convinced that the investigator will do an excellent job. The government has no influence over the investigation, but it is an independent authority. Mr President, let me take this opportunity to say a few words about Sweden's continued extensive engagement in Afghanistan through both authorities and individual civil society organisations, such as the Swedish Afghanistan Committee. We know that the Swedish military presence has been reduced, but the civil development work has increased. Sweden contributes to efforts within democracy, gender equality, human rights and so on with a special focus on women and children. Last year, over SEK 700 million went to Sweden's bilateral development cooperation with Afghanistan. In addition, there is our humanitarian aid and advice and training for the Afghan security forces. We hope that the investigation that we have now launched will provide us with lessons that will be useful both in the continued engagement in Afghanistan and in other countries. I am convinced that we have an excellent investigator who will do this in a broad and inclusive way.
i-f0e927413d116c77-161	Mr President, I would like to In the face of this discussion with the Foreign Minister, we from the Left Party went in and looked at how other countries that have participated in ISAF have carried out their evaluations. We looked at Norway, Denmark, the Netherlands and several other countries. I assume the government did the same before deciding on its own evaluation. Somewhere you must have sat at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, looked at the Norwegian, Dutch and Danish models and said: No, we should not be quite so ambitious. We lower the level of ambition and make a smaller assessment. I have to say that it is regrettable, because I think that, because this has been such a major effort, it also deserves a comprehensive evaluation. On Monday, I met one of the researchers involved in the Norwegian investigation. I met Kristian Berg Har pviken, Director of Prio, Peace Research Institute Oslo. He is one of the researchers of the Norwegian Commission to evaluate Norway's Afghanistan policy. I had the opportunity to talk to him about how they set up their work. A Commission of ten has been set up. The majority of them are, like Berg Harpviken, independent researchers. You have a secretariat of five people. A number of foreign trips have already been made, including to Washington but also to Kabul, to Afghanistan. Over 250 in-depth interviews have been conducted in this work. It is clear that if you choose to lie down at a different level of ambition, the result will also be a different one. I find it difficult to see that a single investigator can carry out as ambitious work as a Commission of ten. More seriously, however, I find it difficult to see that a former Member of the Swedish Parliament and a member of the Social Democrats will have the same credibility when presenting her results as an independent Commission dominated by independent researchers. I'll be honest, I have no objection to Tone Tingsgård as a person. I have no comments on her work. I haven't heard anyone else have it either. The only problem is that Tone Tingsgård, the sole investigator, was Vice-Chairman of the Defence Committee in 1998-2006. She was a member of the composite committee that decided time and again to extend the Swedish military operation in Afghanistan. Tone Tingsgård is one of the Swedish politicians who is ultimately responsible for the military operation in Afghanistan. I do not think it is fundamentally appropriate for a politician, no matter who it is and no matter what party name you have, who is ultimately responsible for the decisions then to evaluate his or her own decisions. What if we had done the same with Swedish aid? I do not believe that anyone at Sida, in politics or in an audit had accepted that, for example, a former Secretary General of the Swedish Afghanistan Committee alone would evaluate the Swedish Afghanistan Committee's assistance. Therefore, I must ask whether the Foreign Minister really thinks it is an appropriate model for a politician alone to evaluate decisions for which she herself is ultimately responsible? I would like to emphasise that it is not just me who raised these issues. I know that the Foreign Minister has been courted by a number of Swedish aid organisations active in Afghanistan. In January, the Swedish Afghanistan Committee, Doctors Without Borders, Kvinna till Kvinna and Svenska Freds sent a letter to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, in which they wrote: A model can be taken from Norway where a broad independent evaluation has started. ..................................................... I have to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: why did you choose not to listen to the Swedish aid organisations? Why did you choose not to listen to the Swedish Afghanistan Committee, which has worked in Afghanistan for 35 years?
i-f0e927413d116c77-174	Mr President, I would like to It is an independent evaluation. It is done by an investigator who has an independent position. Tone Tingsgård left the Defence Committee in October 2006, while ISAF expanded to cover a larger part of Afghanistan. She left Parliament in October 2010. She was not involved in the decisions made during the latter part of ISAF, when the Swedish presence was greatest and the main part of the investigation should of course focus on. After its drafting of the Comitology Directive, the Government has no influence over the investigation. It is an independent authority. What is stated in the directive is that the investigator should carry out the work in close cooperation with the Swedish Armed Forces, Sida, the Police Authority and other relevant authorities. Information gathering shall be carried out through the examination of documentation, individual interviews, open Q & A sessions. It should be widely anchored, and civil society and the scientific community should be included early in the process. Don't tell me we don't know any investigations! We are good at this, and we trust that there will be a broad and inclusive investigation. The working method should be just like that. It describes in detail how the investigator should learn from all experiences and collaborate and cooperate with all relevant actors in the area. Then it is good that the investigation has an international outlook and follows what is going on in other countries. We can discuss forever what we would have chosen. Norway has one way of working, and the Netherlands has another way. We must build on what is our tradition and on the fact that those who we think are good people should do the job. I believe that political experience in defence and security policy is a good qualification for addressing these issues. I'm assuming, and we know, that the investigation will work in a transparent manner. There is a great interest in transparency and interaction with all those who are interested and involved in the issue. I am sure we will see it. It's the right time to do the evaluation. Afghanistan is still on the agenda in many ways. We have a lot of refugees from there. The Afghan President is coming to visit us shortly so that we can discuss the situation in the country. I am convinced that it will be a useful and valuable investigation, and I have full confidence in Tone Tingsgård.
i-f0e927413d116c77-180	Mr President, I would like to I would like to come back to a question that I raised in my interpellation and to which I do not really think I have received an answer. This is a White Paper. In 2013, the Social Democrats specifically decided at their congress that a White Paper – using that very concept – would be developed in relation to the Swedish Afghanistan operation. A year ago, on 2 December, the Minister of Defence wrote a debate article in which he specifically said it would be a so-called White Paper. When I read the directives for the evaluation, there is no longer any wording whatsoever on a White Paper. There is no formal mandate to produce a White Paper. That is why the question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is why the government has withdrawn from the call for a White Paper to be drawn up. Then I have to admit that we in the Left Party had probably hoped and thought that it would be another form of evaluation, another model, a greater degree of independence, greater participation and that more resources would be allocated to the important evaluation. Of course, the most important thing for us is not the exact form, who exactly investigates or what exactly we call the end product. The important thing is that it becomes a final product that many people experience as a credible evaluation, in which large groups in Swedish society, both the Swedish Armed Forces and development organisations, can have confidence in. I am afraid that the government will continue to live with the big question marks about independence around the evaluation just because a single inquiry has been set up under a former Socialist Member of Parliament. If the government had chosen the Norwegian model, we would not have needed this discussion. Then there would have been no question marks. I think that all the men and women who have participated in the Swedish operation in Afghanistan, all the men and women who have participated in the Swedish aid work, all the Swedes who have been involved in the solidarity work with Afghanistan, have earned a little better evaluation, a broader evaluation, a more independent evaluation and an evaluation with far more resources than they now have. I therefore call on the government to listen to us if not, at least to the aid organisations. Redo and do the right thing!
i-f0e927413d116c77-187	Mr President, I would like to Now you said something very important, Hans Linde. What matters is what is the mission and whether it will be credible, whether it will be able to deliver what we want. The most important thing is the directives and the mandate that we have formulated, as well as how the job is done. As the investigator is present, I assume that important messages have been received. This is the normal way in which investigations work. It works inclusively and is open with its mission. I have heard no objections to the wording of the comitology directive. It is formulated broadly and inclusively. These are, of course, the results we want. If you notice that the resources are not enough, whether we are against other authorities or organisations that we want help from or whether it is about the mission to include all the different actors, then we from the government will have to look at it again. If you turn to us and say that the resources are completely inadequate, we must be prepared to look at it. I do not think it matters very much whether you call it a White Paper or not. Whitebook is not normally a term that we use in Swedish investigation. If it makes any difference, people may call it a White Paper, or the investigator may call what she eventually presents a White Paper. What is important is that the directives she has been given to carry out her work are sufficient. So far, I have not heard any objections to how we formulated the mission. Then it's about how she does it. I trust it'll be all right.
i-f0e927413d116c77-191	Mr President, I would like to Anette Åkesson has asked me how I see more people taking help from businesses with domestic services, if I see that there is reason to re-evaluate the view of domestic services and what consideration I take of the regulatory framework being understandable to users and the Swedish Tax Agency. Helena Bouveng has asked me how I intend to deal with the RUT deduction that I have received from the Swedish people. The government wants the RUT deduction to remain, and we have a deal with the bourgeois parties on efforts to strengthen the reception of asylum seekers and the establishment of new arrivals. As you know, the agreement includes the proposal to extend the RUT deduction to include additional gardening, floating and IT services at home. The reasons behind the changes in the RUT deduction previously implemented or proposed by the Government are that the RUT deduction should not contribute to increasing the gap between pupils and that it should be directed more towards ordinary households. Therefore, the tax reduction for help with homework and other school work has been abolished, and therefore we propose the changes to the 2016 budget bill. Furthermore, it is not new that changes to tax rules give rise to demarcation issues. I have great confidence in the Swedish Tax Agency's ability to apply the legislation and to inform about it.
i-f0e927413d116c77-196	Mr President, I would like to At first, I would like to thank the Government for its answer. As the Minister of Finance knows, following a request from the Swedish Tax Agency, which had problems with the delimitation, the alliance government's adjustment for homework-RUT came. My supplementary question, therefore, is: how do the S and MPs now solve the problem of the return of borders? The fun thing about debating the RUT deductions is that this covers a lot of different issues. Many new jobs have been created, and black jobs have gone white. It is about entrepreneurs' conditions, women's entrepreneurship, integration of new Swedes, political conflict between right and left, conflict within the government, lack of transparency in the changes and great popularity among the Swedish people. In addition, RUT is self-financed. When I heard at home that we Moderates pushed the question of the RUT deductions too little on a rich plane, of course, I immediately picked up. A record number of Swedes have so far used the deductions for domestic services this year: 570 000 people, which is more than 30 000 more than in 2014. The growth is greatest in Dorotea, but in many municipalities the growth is in per cent two-digit. Among the 33 Skåne municipalities, only two municipalities have not increased, Tomelilla and Hörby, but on the other hand they remain at the same level as last year. The development between 2010 and 2015 is even more dramatic. The number of buyers in some municipalities has increased by over 600 per cent. Now that the Finance Minister himself claims that the deterioration in the conditions of the RUT deductions affects only a very small proportion of those who use RUT deductions, namely 1%, – this is what she said in this House the other day – the obvious question arises: Yes, why implement it? The deterioration will not bring any money to the state, so the budgetary argument falls. Unfortunately, the threat of the deterioration of the rules has already halted the growth of the home services industry. 20 000 people work in the industry. Seventy-five per cent of the employees were unemployed or dismissed before entering employment. 47 per cent of employees are born abroad. 52% of entrepreneurs are women. With the new rules, according to Almega, 7 000 jobs are deemed to disappear, and many more are the new jobs that will not come into existence. In 2014 alone, the number of employees increased by 3 000, and this is not a bad growth. The obvious question is: why does S push through this deterioration of the conditions for the RUT deductions? Why is the S- and MP government getting into an industry that creates jobs, where many foreign-born people have a chance to enter the labour market, where black jobs have turned white – which is positive for customers, employees and society – and where women are in the majority of entrepreneurs?
i-f0e927413d116c77-203	Mr President, I would like to Sifo has recently carried out a survey for the service company Hemfrid which shows that two out of three Swedes want to keep the RUT deduction as it stands today. The support for RUT has increased significantly since last year, while fewer and fewer people want to reduce or withdraw funds. In the survey, 63 percent say that they want the RUT deduction to remain as it is, with the possibility to deduct up to 50 000 SEK per person per year for domestic services. In addition to this, an additional 8% would also like to increase the RUT deduction. That is to say, over 70 percent of the Swedish population are very positive about the RUT deduction and thus negative to the Social Democratic-led government's halving of the same deduction. In May 2014, Sifo asked the same question about the RUT deduction, then on behalf of SVT. At the time, 53 per cent wanted to keep the deduction without change, a proportion that has increased by as much as 10 percentage points in an incredibly short time. Eighteen per cent wanted to remove the RUT deduction completely, a figure which today has fallen to 7 per cent. The red-green government is now halving the ceiling for the deduction to SEK 25 000. At the same time, the Sifo survey shows that 55 percent of Magdalena Andersson's own voters believe that the RUT deduction should remain unchanged. Even among Left Party voters, 24 per cent say they want to retain the RUT deduction just as it stands today. We can well note that the survey shows a clear message from the Swedish people and from Magdalena Andersson's own voters: Do not touch the RUT deduction! Mr President, I would like to For a few weeks, on 20 October, when the Minister of Finance and I debated the RUT deduction, she urged me and my colleagues to be out and hit the drum to spread the message that very small changes are being made. I can't call a halving of the ceiling for the RUT deduction a small change. Her party colleague in the Riksdag, Börje Vestlund, called the debate a nonsense discussion and nothing else that means nothing to the vast majority of people. Now Sifo's survey, commissioned by Hemfrid, shows that 73 percent of Sweden's population are very positive about the RUT reform and its level of amounts. Hemfrid's CEO and large parts of the Swedish people say clearly: Don't touch the RUT deduction! Is the Minister of Finance now prepared to reconsider his decision to halve the RUT ceiling after the published Sifo investigation? Does the Minister of Finance, like his Socialist colleague Börje Vestlund, continue to call the RUT debate a nonsense discussion when 73 per cent of Sweden's population think that the RUT deduction is good?
i-f0e927413d116c77-208	Mr President, I would like to When you listen to Helena Bouveng and Anette Åkesson you might think that the government made huge changes in the RUT deduction, partly because of how they sound in the debate, partly because of the number of interpellations that have been put on the subject. The government is making a minimal change to the RUT deduction which – and I have repeated this many times; so many times that you also repeat it, which says someone about how often we have had this debate – affects 1% of those who use RUT. Helena Bouveng mentions Hemfrid as an example of companies in this industry. Hemfrid has been out and informed that it is a very small change that is being made. I imagine that Hemfrid has also been concerned that some have tried to make it sound as though the change is greater than it actually is. When we debated the budget in this House, I offered Emil Källström to join me in taking an initiative to inform more people that it is not a major change and that it can therefore both start a business and continue to buy RUT services as before. Perhaps Helena Bouveng and Anette Åkesson would also like to take part in such an initiative? Then we can do it as a broader and more integrated initiative in the Riksdag. That would be very interesting. Anette Åkesson says that the Swedish Tax Agency gets bigger problems when you remove homework-RUT. Then I would like to inform Anette Åkesson that the Swedish Tax Agency rejected the proposal for a RUT deduction for homework help. So it was not good to make this enlargement, and I assume that the Swedish Tax Agency will not mind making this change now, so that we can come back to the box that the Swedish Tax Agency originally advocated. If you have questions about Börje Vestlund, it is probably best to ask them to him.
i-f0e927413d116c77-214	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by informing the Minister for Finance that this is actually the first time that I personally am up and debating the RUT deduction. So it's a premiere for me. We have had jobs and businesses up to now, but there are also customers who will be affected. According to people in the industry, dual-working families with children buy most RUT services. By making the rules more or less incomprehensible, customers and potential customers in general no longer understand what applies. S and MP create a situation that is more difficult to understand and thus less transparency. Instead of granting tax reductions for ROT and RUT work with half the cost of work up to SEK 50 000 per person per year, S and MP make it difficult to do so by changing the conditions for RUT and ROT, so that they differ from each other, and by introducing an age limit for RUT. It is complicated and increased bureaucracy, but to what end? In politics, one can sometimes understand an opponent's reasoning on an issue, even if one does not share the point of view. This is not the case here. I have really tried to understand what it is that makes S and MP deliberately destroy a development that goes with precision in precisely those areas where Sweden today really needs a positive development: the creation of new jobs, not least for young and foreign born, and women's entrepreneurship. I haven't succeeded. According to Almega, the RUT deduction is a success, and the vast majority had underestimated the potential before the reform. When S and MP claim that the changes make no difference, they are wrong. Just look at Denmark and how relatively small changes have had major negative consequences. Denmark, like Finland, has had the corresponding RUT deduction longer than Sweden. In 1997, the reduction in prices was reduced from 60 to 50 %, giving rise to a blunder from which the industry recovered relatively quickly. In 2000, specific services were dealt with. As in Sweden, they were considered to be minor interventions. But the industry has not recovered since then. It is claimed that the minor interventions were the beginning of the end. Denmark's development curve is appalling, as even the smaller adjustments have affected demand and thus industry development. Even small interventions give the signal that the industry is temporary. Customers therefore refrain from buying services, and companies stop hiring, investing and expanding. The signal from the government to review in 2015 which additional services are to be deducted from the possibility of RUT deduction is serious. It is equally serious that the government does not have that insight. How does the Minister for Finance comment on developments in Denmark? Does the Government assess that the development will be the same in Sweden? If so, why maintain the changes? If the answer is no, should it not be obvious to study it? The S-MP government is deliberately taking the risk of making changes that are relatively certain have dramatic and negative effects. Do S and MPs want to go back to before 2007 – with a high proportion of black jobs, fewer jobs and lower entrepreneurship, not least women? Or does the government have other concrete proposals that meet the very challenges that we had then and that are likely to come back?
i-f0e927413d116c77-221	Mr President, I would like to I note that the Minister of Finance has continued to argue that the halving of the RUT deduction ceiling is a minor change. Then it will be a little strange that Magdalena Andersson said in the debate on 20 October:. Continue to invest and develop these companies, and make sure that all Swedes continue to buy RUT services. ..................................................... I am happy to help more people buy RUT services – more customers, more hours bought and more jobs. When it comes to investing and developing these companies, I hand it over with a warm hand to the industry itself. But the industry must be given the right conditions. And I promise that this is actually the only thing you want to do. Since the RUT deduction was introduced, the home services industry has been steadily up, yet until 1 April this year. Growth stopped quite abruptly when the government announced that the RUT deduction will receive a ceiling of SEK 25 000. That is what the Minister of Finance calls a minor change. Karl Wennberg, Professor of Business Administration at Stockholm School of Economics, emphasises that the RUT deduction has been a well-motivated reform. He shows that it is a successful reform that, like the ROT deduction, has created a lot of white jobs. The evaluations show that the tax losses resulting from the right to deduct are in fact entirely matched by an increase in the tax sector. Professor Karl Wennberg also believes that the RUT deduction has led to a positive competitive situation, where small and large companies encourage each other. It has increased the efficiency of the industry and also the productivity of society – I say this not least in view of the debate we had earlier this week on productive tax reforms. Mr President, I would like to If the Minister of Finance is serious about wanting to see developments and investments made in the domestic sector, it will be extremely strange for me, for the companies and for those who have got their first job in the industry that the Minister of Finance at the same time halves the ceiling for the RUT deduction. The agreement now made between six out of eight parliamentary parties included more services to be included in the RUT deduction, such as floating services and easier gardening. That is a good thing, but if the ceiling for the deduction is halved, it will not lead to a huge number of more jobs, because the new service sector is competing with the services already purchased today. The risk is that jobs will only be redistributed and, in fact, there will be no more jobs. Why not keep 50 000 SEK in the right of deduction for domestic services? The Minister of Finance says that she is making this change for distribution policy reasons. The Minister of Finance also says that it is important for the legitimacy of the tax system that tax policy is perceived as fair. But if 73 per cent of Sweden's population now provides support for the RUT deduction, as it stands today, I wonder: Can it not be considered legitimate? Can it not be considered that fiscal policy on this issue is actually perceived as just?
i-f0e927413d116c77-230	Mr President, I would like to I welcome you into the RUT debate, Anette Åkesson. It is quite correct that Anette Åkesson and I have had many other debates but actually no one about RUT. On the other hand, Helena Bouveng has made interpellations. Helena Bouveng can surely tell herself how many interpellations about RUT she has made. Maybe there's so many people that Helena Bouveng can't remember. Very many of the arguments we use in this debate have been used many times before in this House, so there is a bit of repetition. Then I will say what I have said many times before, namely that the change in the RUT deduction affects 1% of RUT users, and they have an average income of SEK 960 000 per year. Helena Bouveng says that with the halving of the ceiling, it cannot provide a huge number of new jobs even if you expand the RUT services. Then I would like to point out again to Helena Bouveng that only 1% is hitting the ceiling. For 99% it is possible to buy more RUT services than they do today, including the new extended services. Anette Åkesson says that you destroy a development when you make this change. Maybe you should be a little more careful with words than that. In addition, the problems that existed before 2007 were likely to come back. I find it very difficult to imagine that they are doing so because of this change. It is precisely because the RUT deduction has many effects and creates many new jobs that we only make a minor change. It differs from the change we make with the ROT. We are making a much greater change there.
i-f0e927413d116c77-234	Mr President, I would like to So it is not that few are affected, but that the small adjustments create uncertainty in the industry. It is not I who say that it is being demolished, but it is the experience of Denmark. The Institute of Economics and the authorities of Denmark and Finland have shown that tax reduction for domestic services means income to the Treasury, that these tax reductions are added. There is increased VAT revenue from enterprises in the industry, increased tax revenues from the employed, lower costs for the unemployed and, not least, increased tax revenues from customers' employment that are on the plus side. About 20 000 people are employed in home services in Sweden today. Three out of four employees were unemployed or dismissed when employed. There are many customers, and they are becoming more and more, which can be interpreted as being satisfied. There are customers throughout the country, but growth has been greatest in municipalities such as Gällivare, Jokkmokk, Arjeplog and Pajala. In this situation, what is claimed to be minor adjustments is carried out when there is material produced that shows that there is no difference if the adjustments are smaller. Hatred back and forth reduces confidence in and in the industry. In Denmark, it died in principle after minor adjustments. In Sweden, the industry already decreased with the threat of change. Let's just wait and see what happens. I find it very difficult to understand why S and MP are doing this deterioration and are threatening with further, but I would nevertheless like to thank the Minister for his reply.
i-f0e927413d116c77-239	Mr President, I would like to I will continue to debate the RUT, because I think it is important that people get their first job. In just a year and a half, support for RUT has increased sharply. This suggests that the RUT deduction helps people to put together everyday puzzles while giving jobs to many who have been very far removed from the labour market. It is about a working everyday puzzle for families with children and not infrequently for women, who do not have to take time off to do homework but instead work more with what they are actually good at. The RUT industry currently employs 20 000 people. The development until last year shows that the RUT sector had good potential to grow with another 16 000 new jobs, according to the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise. More are prepared to test these services, and purchases per customer were about to increase until the Red-Green Government announced a halving of the RUT deduction ceiling. I guess it's this belief that separates me and the Minister of Finance. In these times, many new people have come to our country. It is people who have fled war, and many of them want nothing more than to enter the Swedish labour market as quickly as possible. The RUT jobs are low-threshold jobs, an important first job for many. These jobs do not crowd out other jobs because the sector has previously been either black or completely unpaid. Is it not justified at this point to enable this sector to develop? To stop being afraid that double-working families with children make their everyday puzzles go together, while at the same time we can offer our new Swedes their first job in their new home country? Should the consideration of the Social Democrats for the Left Party and Jonas Sjöstedt be an obstacle to a person's chance of a first job?
i-f0e927413d116c77-245	Mr President, I would like to Helena Bouveng thinks that people should get their first job. I think so too, and it is actually the case that people got their first job even before the RUT deductions existed, even to a greater extent than today because unemployment was lower. The cut user of RUT services deducts SEK 4,700 in a year, so with the ceiling that we propose, the average user can buy five times as much RUT services as today. The fact that this would have a major effect is not realistic. But if it is that you care about this and want people to get their first job and if you think it is important that this industry should continue to live, then Anette Åkesson and Helena Bouveng should not be here in the Chamber debating with me. You should be at home in your constituencies telling everyone that they will continue to buy RUT services. You are in the wrong place if you want to do any good on this issue. This change affects 1 percent of RUT buyers, whose average income is SEK 960 000 per year. You stand here arguing for that group to continue using RUT services. They will probably do so anyway, but you might also think a little about the falling school results, how to get better labour market policy measures and climate change. It's an incredible focus on RUT from these two ladies.
i-f0e927413d116c77-248	Mr President, I would like to Anette Åkesson has asked me how I see Sweden's second place in the world's high-taxable and if it is an objective for the government that the Swedes should be the world's most taxed people, and if so, why. The aim of tax policy is to finance the common welfare, various social functions and other public expenditure. Tax collection is part of the welfare model that we have been developing in the Nordic countries for a long time. The Nordic model is a search for equality and gender equality, a large public sector with broad welfare systems covering everyone, relatively evenly distributed income and a quest for work for everyone. A Nordic welfare model requires a relatively high tax rate. But as Åkesson himself said in a previous interpellation, the Swedish people get a lot for their tax money. According to the OECD, Sweden does not stand out in terms of the overall tax burden when compared to similar countries. In my opinion, it is more relevant to compare the whole than to select individual tax rates and Caribbean islands. Sweden should have the best welfare in the world. At the same time, we have major societal challenges ahead of us. Following the large unfunded tax cuts of the previous government, we have a situation of large government deficits, unemployment that has stuck to high levels and record low performance in school. To this we see the challenges of the growing unrest in the outside world and the many people on the run. The government has now begun the necessary reform work that needs to be financed. Better order of public finances is needed for more jobs and sustainable financing of welfare. This is how we can continue to build a Sweden to be proud of.
i-f0e927413d116c77-253	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Government for its answer. It is with satisfaction that I note that reference is now not just made to the fact that it is the welfare that taxes fund. Schools, health care and long-term care account for about one third of public expenditure, and it is, among other things, social protection that is paid for with taxes. At the same time, it is motivating to be quoted in the answer. I also fully agree with the Minister for Finance that it is the whole that is relevant, but the whole is made up of many smaller parts, and, unfortunately, since the S-MP government is in and is deteriorating in many of them, we cannot avoid debating them. I want to correct the Minister of Finance's image of the legacy of the alliance government. Sweden had not only higher economic growth than all comparable countries in 2006 to 2014. When the Alliance handed over to the Social Democrats and the Green Party, Sweden had the EU's strongest public finances when it balances net public finances and public debt. Despite the financial crisis, the number of jobs increased by 350 000. Employment grew and exclusion decreased from 20 per cent to 14 per cent, which is the lowest level since this ratio began to be measured. One might wonder why the Minister for Finance is screwing up the Alliance because even in his own budget it is written that the measures implemented by the Alliance on taxes and subsidies have led to positive effects that have reduced unemployment – in contrast to its own proposals in the 2016 budget, which explicitly lead to fewer jobs. Thus, the Social Democrats and the Green Party oppose their own political goal. Someone told me that the difference between social democratic and moderate tax policies is that the Social Democrats believe that taxes are state money, while the Oderatians think that tax money is citizens' money. This may explain why we want to be more careful with the levying of taxes: each chandelier is a penny less that the citizens would otherwise have at their disposal themselves. This could partly explain the answer of the Minister for Finance. Even Moderates want tax-funded welfare. But we want to focus on high quality, both because what is paid with taxpayers' money should give value for money and every penny is best used and because the investigation after investigation shows that the municipalities and businesses that have the highest quality at the same time have the lowest costs. Those who work with their processes and improve them where necessary therefore manage to achieve better results with less resources. We want to implement reforms with a focus on more jobs and that it should be more profitable to work and to employ. Our whole policy is against it. With the Moderates' budget, the cake to distribute would be bigger. Instead, we are getting increasingly tough to distribute a cake that is decreasing because of the policies of the Social Democrats and the Green Party. Of the tax increases of SEK 40 billion next year, approximately 90 per cent are against jobs and growth. How does the Minister of Finance think it promotes the financing of welfare in the short and long term? If we are to have the best welfare in the world, what does the Minister of Finance mean by that, and how is it to be done when fewer jobs get lower tax revenues and it is therefore becoming increasingly tougher to prioritise?
i-f0e927413d116c77-261	Mr President, I would like to Anette Åkesson and the Moderates have a completely different view of taxes than we Social Democrats, and if you have a different view of taxes, it also means that you have a different view of welfare. That is why it is good that when the Moderates went to elections last year, they also clearly acknowledged the conflict. Sometimes it sounds to Moderates as if you can lower the tax and get more money, but now they chose to say that the money was over and that you could not go to elections on further reduced taxes. It is good that it was acknowledged – at least during the election campaign. I don't really know what's going on now. The Nordic countries and Sweden are welfare states. This is where we help each other. We take care of each other. We make sure that you have a safety net when you are at a slightly weaker stage of life: when you are a parent, when you are a child, when you are sick, when you are unemployed and when you are older. We also ensure that there are good opportunities for all children to grow up under good living conditions, no matter what parents they happen to have. There should be high-quality childcare facilities and good schools that can catch up with children who have problems so that they can move on to life regardless of their background. In the same way, we think it is important that there should be good healthcare regardless of the size of the wallet and a safe and good care for the elderly regardless of the size of the wallet. If society is to be financed, you also have to pay a little more tax. That is exactly what it looks like in Sweden. Now it sounds at Anette Åkesson that this would create much lower growth and thus give less tax revenue in the future. But the latter international research shows that, on the contrary, countries with good welfare models are countries that perform not only high quality of life for their citizens but also good growth.
i-f0e927413d116c77-266	Mr President, I would like to The Alliance's policy of reduced taxes has shown that tax revenues have increased. We have debated this on previous occasions. Our view of the need for welfare does not differ between Moderates and Social Democrats. On the other hand, the view of taxes does. The Alliance government took action with a focus on jobs and order and financial management. The Moderates continue in their draft budget along the same lines. We want to lower the thresholds for entering the labour market, for example through continued RUT deductions and the introduction of so-called first job deductions. The first job deduction is part of an entire package that focuses precisely on improving the chances of getting the first job. The important thing is that the focus is on increasing tax revenue, on the one hand, by more people working and those who work more hours. Then the cake to distribute will be bigger. On the other hand, there should be high efficiency and good quality in public activities. We may well have the goal of the world's best welfare, but then should best mean the most effective and with good quality. In this case, we also improve the legitimacy of the tax system among the Swedish people. But it can never in itself be a self-interest to charge the highest taxes, especially in a globalised world where Sweden competes for the best labour force. We can compete with what we get in the welfare system, but only if it is related to what we pay and not if the taxes continue to grow routinely. Instead, we will have to review the public commitment. I was going to look at some examples in the S-MP draft budget, which affects eight out of ten Swedish households overall. In order to finance the proposals, the heaviest item in the budget is the reduction in the ROT deductions so that only 30% of the labour force is replaced instead of 50%. It's an estimated 5 1⁄2 billion. At the same time, some questions arise because the industry and previous experience show that undeclared work is increasing, and then that money does not come in. The second largest item concerns increased energy tax on petrol and diesel, which is estimated to generate more than 4 billion. Here, the main punishment is that of those who live in rural areas by putting the tax at a distance. It doesn't exactly promote motivation for those who need to drive far to work. But worse is that an indexation is added so that fuel taxes will increase automatically and without it having to be taken up for decision in the Riksdag. Estimates show that petrol taxes will increase dramatically in just a few years. It is equally bad that it is done in the hidden, that is, without transparency. Unfortunately, we have seen that the S-MP Government has reduced transparency and transparency in several areas since it took office, and this is another example. A third example of how the S-MP government finances its efforts is that the lower tier of government tax is listed in 2016 and limited to 2017, which is expected to amount to 1.7 billion next year and 2.8 billion years thereafter. It's a grateful area. It is difficult to understand and affects only the rich. But being rich according to the S-MP is being like any Svensson, and it hits many people with ordinary jobs. The reduction in employers' contributions for young people has already been abolished in the past. All in all, several of the alliance reforms, which according to the S-MP's own budget have contributed to good results, are being demolished. What are the long-term effects of the S-MP destroying the Alliance's reforms? The reforms have focused on the work line and have been successful in providing the expected effects, i.e. more jobs and more hours worked.
i-f0e927413d116c77-275	Mr President, I would like to I am the first to agree with Anette Åkesson on the importance of efficiency in public spending. Among other things, it is a question of good quality control of public activities so that every tax chandelier is used in the best possible way. That is why I am so upset when we see venture capitalists buying into schools, reducing quality, making big profits and, in addition, sending the big profits out to tax havens and not even paying taxes on profits. There's something I want to stop. If Anette Åkesson cared that our tax money went to what they were intended for perhaps Anette Åkesson wanted to be constructive in the debate about stopping venture capital in our schools and welfare businesses. Of course, it is also important to ensure that the money in our insurance systems is used properly. It is therefore important to have effective and intensive work to curb cheating in those systems. Anette Åkesson says that every crown should be used in the best way. How, then, is it that every year 18 billion were spent on reducing youth unemployment contributions, even though a united team of experts said that it is an extremely inefficient way to spend taxpayers' money? Anette Åkesson says that the first job deduction will be something that creates many new jobs. But it's just that Anette Åkesson and I get a lot more first job deduction than the one who gets their first job.
i-f0e927413d116c77-280	Mr President, I would like to The first job deduction is part of a large package. It is not just about tax deductions, but it is part of many other parts. I would like to protest at the image Magdalena Andersson gives of venture capitalists. It's a picture of some people. The Alliance government and Anders Borg took the lead in taking action against those who abuse the system. I certainly cannot agree with the Minister for Finance. The S-MP budget raises the thresholds to enter the labour market, threatens jobs and public finances, with negative effects on tax revenues given current tax levels. Instead of tackling robust reforms that would ensure increased tax revenues through the focus on more jobs, the S-MP goes the easy way by raising taxes. It is short-term and leads to a negative spiral. To break the spiral, the focus must change, i.e. not routinely raise taxes as soon as it gets a bit difficult but question what we do and ensure that we work with the right things and in the right way in the big and in the small. With a policy that affects eight out of ten Swedes negatively, I hope that we in the alliance parties will succeed better in the next election to inform voters that it is the Alliance's policy that lays the foundation for a more successful Sweden both at household level and for society in general. Perhaps the view of the tax could contribute. We believe that the tax belongs to the citizens while the Social Democrats see the tax as state money. There's probably most of us on our side. I would like to thank the Minister for Finance for the debate.
i-f0e927413d116c77-285	Mr President, I would like to Anette Åkesson's tax policy has been tested for eight years, and we have concluded. More than 130 billion in tax cuts, large gaps in public finances, gaps increasing faster than in any other analogue country and school outcomes falling faster than in any other analogue country. There's a lot of rifts in the well-being. We've got it figured out. I have a different view of how society should develop. I want us to have a welfare model where we take care of each other, protect each other and care about each other. That's right and right. What is good is that recent economic research shows that it is those societies that perform well, not only in good welfare for citizens but also in high growth. It is more redistributive systems that have managed to boost growth and create good societies. This is how I want Sweden to develop. There is a deep ideological dividing line between Moderates and Social Democrats.
i-f0e927413d116c77-288	Mr President, I would like to Helena Bouveng has asked me if I am open to completely abolishing the ROT deduction for certain construction works in the future. ROT deductions are granted for the repair, maintenance, renovation and extension of a small building, owner-occupied apartment or a right-of-occupancy apartment. The legislation does not specify which jobs are included. I do not intend to introduce this either.
i-f0e927413d116c77-289	Mr President, I would like to In its budget proposal, the government chose to reduce the right to ROT deduction from 50 per cent to 30 per cent of the labour cost of conversion and extension. In the same budget changes are made to the tax charge, which makes eight out of ten households in Sweden less financially able to save money for carrying out necessary and long-awaited repairs and improvements in their own homes. In total, taxes for ordinary people aged 20 to 64 are increased by SEK 36.1 billion, which means an average of SEK 6 400 per person per year. At home in my own county, Jönköping County, this means a tax increase of 5,345 SEK per person per year. For an ordinary family of children, where parents work as police, specialist nurses, or midwives, the household budget is reduced by SEK 50,760 in four years. There is a lot of money for an ordinary family with children that will make the household money together at the end of the month. Mr President, I would like to In my Småland these ordinary families usually live in a house, a house that is not always in top rhyme, but where they have the idea of making constant improvements and repairs after time. They have a long-term plan and set aside money every month to fulfill their house dreams. The Swedish Financial Control Agency is very critical of the proposal to so severely reduce the ROT deduction. They say in their referral: A proposal with such a large reduction in subsidies in one step removes the conditions for many households that have planned and possibly contracted craftsmen for renovations. When the Swedish Financial Control Agency wrote its referral, the current tax increases were not even announced. No one could have foreseen this. The Social Democrats promised in the election movement that no tax increases would affect ordinary wage earners. That's not exactly what happened. 1.2 million wage and salary earners receive substantial increases in taxes. An ordinary family at home in Jönköping County gets over 50,000 SEK less to move with in four years, while the ROT deduction is reduced from 50 per cent to 30 per cent. I wonder, therefore, whether Magdalena Andersson is not concerned that the necessary repairs are now not being carried out. The Social Democraticly led government overturns with a brush stroke the planning of ordinary families with children for how their homes will become, for example, more climate-smart. These very ordinary families are now forced to choose black labor to keep their homes free of moisture and drag, as these investments often cannot actually wait. Is it not reasonable for election promises to be kept so that ordinary families with children with normal incomes can plan their necessary renovations?
i-f0e927413d116c77-296	Mr President, I would like to Helena Bouveng is now talking about ordinary families with children. It's a little interesting considering the question she's been asking. The question I have received from Helena Bouveng is whether I am open to abolishing the ROT deduction for the construction of exclusive marble benches for kitchens or work to build indoor pools. What common families with children does Helena Bouveng think will buy exclusive marble benches or build indoor pools?
i-f0e927413d116c77-298	Mr President, I would like to As far as the RUT deduction is concerned, we have seen that the Minister for Finance is keen to implement signal policy changes, although this leads to fewer people getting their first job, getting a foothold in the labour market and contributing to the common welfare that the Minister of Finance is happy to talk about and which I am also happy to talk about. Magdalena Andersson has also said today that the reason for making some changes is that it is important for the legitimacy of the tax system and for fiscal policy to be perceived as fair. Magdalena Andersson also says that no major changes are made to the RUT deduction. She continues to claim that a halving of the RUT deduction is a minor change. Furthermore, the Minister of Finance has stated that the RUT deduction should not be used to hire the Chefland team for a birthday party or to clean indoor pools. Mr President, I would like to That is why it will be really remarkable for me when Magdalena Andersson and the Social Democratically led government retain the sum of the ROT deduction of SEK 50 000 even if the work deduction stays at 30 per cent. This means, in practice, that as long as the renovation is of a larger nature, it does not matter; the deduction is continued at SEK 50 000. These are renovations and changes that are probably much more common in luxury villas in Djursholm than in the small old townhouse at home in Vetlanda – the townhouse that is inhabited and owned by ordinary families with children. Nor has Magdalena Andersson made any changes to what the ROT deduction may be used for. It is perfectly possible to rebuild the kitchen with just exclusive marble benches or to get work done to build an indoor pool. That's why I wonder where justice is that it's okay to build an indoor pool of subsidies but not to clean it. Why does the Minister of Finance use signal policy when it comes to RUT and not ROT? Why is it okay with exclusive marble benches in Djursholmsvillan while she says no to the opportunity of ordinary double-working families with children to get help with the food bag? Hence my interpellation, the Minister of Finance.
i-f0e927413d116c77-303	Mr President, I would like to It may be that ordinary families with children have children who are moving away from home. This change means that instead of giving a tax subsidy or tax subsidy to rebuild its terraced house, we support the construction of new rental apartments. It is precisely in order for people to be able to move to where jobs and education are and for young people to be able to move away from home. It is something that will benefit ordinary families with children on the day it is time for their children to leave home. We're making this change to reschedule. Instead of giving a tax subsidy to rebuild kitchens, we are giving a subsidy to build new kitchens. It will of course benefit growth in Sweden in a few years' time and not least in the current situation, as we have many new people seeking asylum in Sweden. We will have a very strong population, and it will be all the more important for us to have housing. In this situation, to reduce the ROT deduction slightly to ensure that we get housing construction up, I think is a well-balanced policy. I can also note Helena Bouveng's fascination and great interest in indoor pools.
i-f0e927413d116c77-307	Mr President, I would like to It's probably more the fascination of how the Minister of Finance makes changes in the RUT deduction, which includes indoor pools, which is for me a little more exciting. The Minister of Finance mentions subsidies to the construction sector. We can well conclude that subsidies in the construction sector have not been very successful in the past. As we have talked about before and as the Minister for Finance has now said, it is an extraordinary situation that also requires extraordinary efforts. We have made an agreement on how to deal together with the great stream of people who have now chosen to come to our country – a good start – but, as I said before, I think it is far from enough. Today we have an emergency situation where it is more about roof over head and food for the day. Tomorrow's challenges are certainly much greater, namely how these people should get into the Swedish labour market, and quickly. Is there any advice in this situation to be horrified at the fact that ordinary, double-working families with children make their everyday puzzles go together, that the worn-out townhouse is being renovated in line with the needs at the expense of people who have fled war not having their first job, that a large part of our new citizens remain outside for a long time? Is that what the Minister of Finance calls a legitimate system? Is that a price that the Minister of Finance is willing to pay? Is it fair to our new Swedes? Is it not better for them to have an opportunity to contribute inside rather than being burdened with alienation?
i-f0e927413d116c77-312	Mr President, I would like to I do not share Helena Bouveng's view that the change we are making in RUT, which affects 1% of RUT buyers, will be crucial if the people who are now applying for asylum in Sweden are given an opportunity to work or not. This is the second time this autumn that Helena Bouveng called me to Parliament to discuss taxation of indoor pools. Helena Bouveng has previously expressed concern that one should no longer be allowed to clean its indoor pool with RUT deduction. Now she is also worried about not getting tax discounts to rebuild or build a new indoor pool. I think we should raise our eyes a little. We are at a time when historically many people in the world are fleeing war, persecution and terrorism. Over the past few months, 80 000 people have gone to Sweden to obtain asylum. Employees at the Finnish Immigration Service and the Swedish Tax Agency work day and night to cope with the situation and arrange food for the day, shelter and beds for all asylum seekers. The government is working for high pressure to deal with the situation, and an additional amending budget has been developed. We need to see how to quickly build more housing, we need to get SFI teachers and teachers in Swedish as a second language, we need to get people to work and much more. In this situation, Helena Bouveng and her party colleagues choose to take up the time of the Riksdag and the Ministry of Finance to discuss tax issues about indoor pools – something that reasonably concerns very few people, as Helena Bouveng is well aware. Nevertheless, this issue is so high on the agenda that Helena Bouveng and her party colleagues do not ask one, not two, but three interpellations about indoor pools. I have nothing more to add. I think this speaks for itself.
i-f0e927413d116c77-318	Mr President, I would like to Helena Bouveng has asked me what estimates the government has made of the impact of increased income tax on the participation of people over 65 years of age. Helena Bouveng has also asked me if I share the view of Minister for Social Security Annika Strandhäll that we need to see more hours worked and an increased retirement age in Sweden. I would like to start with a clarification. The government does not raise income tax for the elderly but lowers it. What I assume Helena Bouveng means is that we reintroduce a special payroll tax for the elderly. It is important to note that, even after the proposal, working older people are tax advantaged, both on the employers' side and on the income tax side. Assessing the impact of policies on the basis of individual financial measures is misleading. Policy must be seen in its entirety. The 2016 Budget Bill makes an overall assessment of the long-term effects of government policy. This shows that government policies together lead to higher GDP and employment and lower unemployment. When it comes to the question of whether I share the view of Minister for Social Security Annika Strandhäll that we need to see more hours worked and an increased retirement age in Sweden, my answer is that it is a starting point for the government that all people's skills should be taken into account as long as they can and want to work. In order to get more older people to work longer, the working environment needs to be improved and work-related ill-health prevented. The changes needed for a longer working life need to be broadly anchored, and it is therefore important that the process takes place throughout society. Discussions are therefore ongoing within the Pensions Group with representatives of the parties behind the pension agreement and with the social partners on how to achieve a longer working life in practice.
i-f0e927413d116c77-323	Mr President, I would like to The demographic challenge for Sweden has been clarified for a long time. This year, the youngest 1950s turn 65 years old and reach the age that earlier almost automatically meant retirement. It is now raised to 67 years of age, and the Alliance wants to raise the age of the right to remain in employment further, to 69 years. I think neither I nor the Minister for Finance would be sorry if Claes Elfsberg on SVT had a chance to remain as a news anchor. The fact that every other woman now experiences her 80th birthday is in itself a gratifying development. We also see that many people are able and want to stay in work after the age of 65. Today, 100 000 more seniors are employed than in 2006. There has been particularly strong development among women. Eurostat statistics show that Sweden has the EU's fastest growing employment rate among persons aged 65 to 74. 65 has become the new 45. This is an increase of over 6%. This is a very positive development which I am sure both the Minister for Finance and I welcome but also necessary because we are getting older. When we live longer, we also have to work longer. In addition, research shows that we often feel better if we continue to belong to a working community. Mr President, I would like to The positive development can largely be explained by the alliance government's tax relief for the elderly. The increased job tax credit for those aged 65 or over has made it more profitable to remain in the labour market. At the same time, employers' contributions to employ people over 65 years of age were reduced by abolishing the special payroll tax. It was therefore both cheaper to hire people over the age of 65 and more profitable for the elderly to continue working. Now the Minister of Finance wants to reintroduce the special wage tax for people over 65, the so-called silver tax. This silver tax threatens the positive development that more and more people want to continue working after the age of 65. It is a tax increase that strikes against the possibility of staying in jobs higher up in the age range. Does the Minister of Finance not risk, through the reintroduction of the silver tax, a deterioration in the economy of the Treasury, the positive trend that more than 65 years of age will remain in the labour market and, in the long run, will weaken public finances rather than strengthen them?
i-f0e927413d116c77-329	Mr President, I would like to Let's sort these out a little bit. There's a silver treasure. However, it is not at work, because there is a silver discount here. It is cheaper for employers to hire older people. Older people also have an extra, reinforced job tax deduction. There is therefore a silver discount for both employers and employees over 65. There is a silver tax, and it was introduced by the Moderates and means that pensioners should pay higher taxes than ordinary wage earners. That, Helena Bouveng, is the silver tax. It is important that older people can work longer and have the opportunity to participate in their professional life long after 65. I think there are good opportunities for that and hope that we can develop Sweden in that direction. Then maybe Helena Bouveng and I will meet here again in 20 years, even if we do other things in between. But it is also important that young people get to work. Of course, we should focus on a good labour market for older people, but we must also focus on getting young people into work. The government has clearly declared that young people should not go long-term unemployed. We are therefore introducing a Youth Guarantee so that no young person is unemployed for more than 90 days. At the latest after 90 days, it is a job, education or internship that applies, because it is not good to sit passively and do nothing month after month as a young person. It's not a good way to start your adult life. I think we can perform better in Sweden and make sure that our young people get a good start in working life.
i-f0e927413d116c77-335	Mr President, I would like to It was interesting to hear that the Minister for Finance thinks it is important for young people to get their first job, given that the Minister for Finance chooses to remove the halved employers' contribution for young people. It is also exciting that the Social Democrats have now, for the first time in a very long time, reduced the tax on pensioners. We did it a number of times during our time. Former Prime Minister Fredrik Reinfeldt stated that we need to work a little more and a little further up the age to cope with our welfare ambitions. The reactions did not wait. Among others, the Social Democrats' own spokesperson on pension issues and the current group leader in the Riksdag of the Social Democrats, Tomas Eneroth, quickly went out in the media and accused former state minister Fredrik Reinfeldt of being provocative and pointing fingers. Today, the tone is somewhat more cautious. Now it is the Social Democratic Minister for Social Security Annika Strandhäll who reached the same conclusion three years later. In an interview in Svenska Dagbladet, among others, on 19 October, the Minister for Social Security asked about the participation of older people in the labour market and told us: She hoped to bring about an increase in the retirement age during her term of office. This makes me a little confused, Mr President. We have talked about signal policy earlier today, and I wonder what signals the Social Democratic-led government wants to give. From a minister we get statements about more hours worked for more working years, and from the Minister of Finance there will be strong tax increases for those who want to work longer. If I understand the Twitter flow correctly, both Annika Strandhäll and Magdalena Andersson belong to a close group at Rosenbad, so communication between them should be good. Or is the issue of more than 65 years of work too small to be included in this narrow circle? Or does the Minister of Finance believe that greatly increased wage taxes on people who choose to work after 65 have no impact on whether more people remain or not?
i-f0e927413d116c77-341	Mr President, I would like to The extent to which taxes have an impact on people working is, of course, all about what the tax is used for. That is the case with all taxes. If you have a society without taxes but no childcare, parents cannot work. However, if you levy a little income tax and arrange childcare for everyone, it can actually increase the number of hours worked. You have to think in two directions, Helena Bouveng, both how the tax is collected and how the money is used. That's why it's important and that's why we work a lot to have an effective tax levy and then make sure that the money is used so that more jobs are created. It is very much about what companies are asking for today, namely skilled labour, a housing policy that allows more housing to be built and well-functioning infrastructure. In precisely these areas, the government is working extremely actively. We need to improve education so that more young people get the support they need at school and can get through it. Young people then need support to enter the labour market, but also people in the middle of life will need skills development. We must build more housing and dare to spend money on it so that young people can move from home to places where jobs and education are. We must have a well-functioning infrastructure for our companies. If we are to do this, we must be able to finance it through taxes. That is exactly what we propose. In the case of the youth worker's contribution, the Moderates also raise it. How many fewer jobs does Helena Bouveng think the Moderates' proposal on the youth unemployment contribution will give?
i-f0e927413d116c77-348	Mr President, I would like to I believe that the Minister for Finance and I agree that it is important that more people choose to work even after the age of 65. We need more hours worked, not less, whether you're 65 plus or 25. It is not always the financial incentives that govern how long we choose to remain in the labour market, how many hours we work or what education we choose. But we can still agree that taxes govern behaviour. What we want to see less of tax is higher, and what we want to see more of tax is lower. Taxes thus have a signal effect – we want this, we do not want this. Moreover, if you want to break behaviour, beliefs and cultures, taxes can play a major role. Taxes are incredibly important to all that the Minister of Finance wants to achieve. The generally accepted view of retirement at the age of 65 is deeply rooted. In addition, many people choose to retire considerably earlier than this. Therefore, the alliance government carried out tax reforms that made it more profitable both for the employee and the one who chose to stay. The fact that the number of older people in employment has increased by 100 000 since 2006 should surely be proof that the reforms were incredibly successful. Why does the Minister of Finance choose not to continue on the successful line taken by the Alliance? Why is the special wage tax for older people reintroduced when the removal was so successful? Is it only with whips that the Minister of Finance wants more older people to stay in the labour market? Why not say yes to our proposal for increased job tax deductions at 64 and better opportunities for transition in the middle of life so that more people, of their own volition, stay and work a little longer and so that older people feel wanted and needed even after 65 years?
i-f0e927413d116c77-353	Mr President, I would like to I very much hope that more older people will feel both in demand and welcome to the labour market. I am passionate about and I am extremely committed to more people being able to work further up in my age. However, I think it is important to include the perspective that more people should be able to work until 65. We need to put in efforts so that more people can do it. In addition, more people will have the opportunity to be in demand after 65 years, but in order for them to do so, a policy is needed. In order for more people to work up to and after 65, we need to do more active work environment work than today. The Moderates have been very committed to cutting back on work environment work. With the proposals we are now putting forward, we will be able to support the work environment more effectively. We increase resources for, among other things, probation, but we also strengthen work-life research. It is important for more people to work longer. Another key measure that we know means that many, not least women, go down in working hours or stop working is that they care for a close relative older person. We are implementing a major investment in care for the elderly in order to increase the quality there. One of the aims of this measure is that more people, especially women, will be able to work longer and more hours, even if they have sick relatives. Helena Bouveng and I really share the ambition that more people will work. Helena Bouveng has focused on those over 65, but I'm sure she also wants more people to work up to 65 and then over 65. I think that's good.
i-f0e927413d116c77-358	Mr President, I would like to Anette Åkesson has asked Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson what measures she is taking to ensure that Sweden has the optimal fiscal conditions to promote the development of the collaborative economy and how she ensures that both the new and the old generation of companies have equal conditions. The interpellation has been handed over to me. The fact that individuals sell, rent, lend and distribute under-utilisation assets and perform services through different solutions is in itself nothing new. However, in recent years, e.g. digital platforms that facilitate transactions have had an impact, thus increasing the scale of the phenomenon. Progress has been very rapid, and the government is following it closely. The scope and consequences of the sharing economy in Sweden need to be mapped and analysed. Therefore, for example, the government has set up an investigation into how the rules for taxis and car sharing can be adapted to new conditions. In addition, Finansinspektionen has been tasked with analysing the market for crowdfunding, a phenomenon that can be said to belong to the collaborative economy. In addition to securing good and stable tax revenues, tax policy should also create the conditions for sustainable growth and high employment, fair distribution of wealth and contribute to an environmentally and socially sustainable society. A prerequisite for prosperity is, among other things, that Sweden has competitive companies. Tax policy should therefore also contribute to good conditions for entrepreneurship and investment. Also from a tax perspective, there is a need to monitor the development of the collaborative economy and the challenges that may arise in the application of the tax rules. Work is ongoing within the Government Office to analyse these issues.
i-f0e927413d116c77-365	Mr President, I would like to At first, I would like to thank the Minister for Finance for his answer. It is good that the government is following developments, but I believe that the concrete investigations that have been set up are limited to areas such as taxis and carpooling, crowdfunding and tax rules. It may be necessary – especially the tax rules are something that needs to be addressed urgently – but I miss the overall holistic approach. I share Per Bolund's view that the sharing economy as far as services are concerned again is not about anything new, but that it is just a possibility to use the technology that separates. But it's only in quotation marks, because the new technology means that completely new phenomena are developing as both many traditional companies and we as legislators have to deal with. In the collaborative economy, private individuals act as customers, workers or micro-enterprises, making the distinction between private individuals and entrepreneurship unclear. It places new demands on a more flexible labour market and thus also on adjustments to the security systems. The Swedish tax system is based on the fact that we classify taxes based on whether they are taxes on labour or taxes on capital. Based on this classification, income is then taxed differently. It is complex, and we can see the accompanying tone around the 3:12 rules, that it is not easy to get legislation that is clear but also perceived as reasonable. But the boundaries of the collaborative economy will be important to make clear, on the basis of the phenomenon that it is a division, whether it is car sharing or renting out a room or lawn mower. It must be dealt with immediately. A concrete proposal put forward by an entrepreneur in the division industry is that there should be a free share of SEK 20 000. It is always easier to discuss on the basis of a proposal, and the benefits in this case are obvious: If divisions start to be presented, we will have greater transparency as to who shares, where and when it is shared and with what products and services it takes place. Knowledge needs to be increased, not least in order to adapt the regulatory framework. If the owner of the product is divided, or the service provider, up more than SEK 20 000, the person is proposed to have an F-tax note and the division is taxed. At the same time, such a statement guarantees the customer that the sharing platform is serious, which also increases its legitimacy. Some direct disadvantages are difficult to see. Other challenges for the tax system concern the question of how we get the tax revenue needed to finance welfare, social protection and the like. Digitisation will lead to fewer jobs, but the collaborative economy can be a job creator. At least that is how Britain perceives it. They aim to become the world's best partner economy and have already developed concrete challenges to address in the collaborative economy. Examples of horizontal proposals that apply independently of the sector are the development of regulations that are proportionate to the scale of the activity, the review of how online transactions are safe for the consumer and the existence of sanctions for those who do not pay the taxes they are required or who do not comply with the rules. But even some examples of more specific areas may be interesting, such as car pools to be coordinated with public transport or that apartments can be subleased more easily, to name but a few. Regarding the proposals where I mentioned some horizontal examples: Wouldn't it be something for Sweden to review as soon as possible?
i-f0e927413d116c77-373	Mr President, I would like to I would like to take this opportunity to thank Anette Åkesson for the interesting interpellation on an important issue. I can begin by saying that if the UK wants to be the world's best in sharing economy, they will have to deal with Sweden, because I believe that we have every chance of being the most prominent in this sector. Sweden is a country characterised by great trust between citizens, which is a prerequisite for sharing resources and services, which are now growing. We are also a country with a great technological impact. We are early adopters, as they say in English – we are quick to embrace new technologies, which is a prerequisite for this. We are also an innovative economy that is easy to find new solutions. As far as the collaborative economy is concerned, it is largely new solutions to old problems that are found and which create great opportunities. I and the government take a very positive view of the collaborative economy as a phenomenon and believe that it can bring great benefits for Sweden's economy, for unemployment but also for resource use and for environmental impact. It is interesting that the collaborative economy is a very broad phenomenon ranging from worldwide, huge companies to activities at the smallest micro-level in the neighbourhood, where tools are shared with one's neighbour and the like. What binds the whole economy together is that it is very much based on just trust, that there is a credibility of the one on the other side. Anette Åkesson mentions platforms. There are well - known examples such as Airbnb, where you share rooms, and Uber, where you share car skiing. Platforms have found ways of creating security for consumers. As I have said, I see great opportunities. I think we should try to welcome the new activity. I am of the opinion that when people want to do something, then it is difficult to stop them, and if there are no strong reasons, you should not even try. I think we should have the perspective of welcoming the collaborative economy as a new phenomenon in economic activities. Of course, there will also be conflicts during the journey. There I share Anette Åkesson's view that we need to evaluate at an early stage what conflicts there may be and what problems we are also prepared to face by, for example, reviewing regulations and the like. Some of us have already noted that there may be problems with regard to the protection of workers and working rules. They are adapted to a time when it was companies and employees. But in this case we are both producers and consumers in parallel, you might say. Which working rules should apply? Consumer protection, which is an area beneath me as Minister of Consumer Affairs, is also an issue. We have a high level of consumer protection: if you are fooled by a salesman or a supplier, you have a strong chance of getting right. But if it is not a company at the other end but another private individual, what rights do you have? It is a type of regulation that we need to review. As far as taxation is concerned, I believe that opportunities will arise there, but that there may also be difficulties. We need to analyze them and review them. An important part of the solution can be to try to simplify tax procedures as much as possible, to make it as easy as possible for the person involved in the collaborative economy to do justice and pay their taxes. I hope that the Swedish Tax Agency will be prepared to try to cooperate with the market players, for example, to make it possible to link from the sharing websites to the Swedish Tax Agency, in order to find out what rules apply and perhaps also to make simple payments of taxes. I think we can do a lot by using simplification methods. The idea that emerged in the debate that you should have a free amount is an interesting idea that I think we should look further at. There is already a limit to moving from hobbies to more professional activities. But it is possible that we need to look at whether it needs to be adjusted or whether there are other limits we need to set. I think this is an important area, and I believe, as I said, that Sweden has great opportunities to benefit both economically and by creating more jobs through the emergence of the collaborative economy.
i-f0e927413d116c77-385	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased to hear that the Minister for Financial Markets has ambitions to deal with the UK, and I also see that Sweden has many advantages at its starting point. In fact, however, we have lost some momentum and are lagging behind not least with the collaborative economy, as Britain has moved a few steps further than we have. Many traditional companies face major challenges due to the collaborative economy. They are in sectors that are heavily regulated. The most common examples are that Uber competes with taxis and Airbnb with hotels, which the Minister for the Financial Market was in. It pinpoints why it is urgent to act quickly. In parallel with the traditional companies working to find ways not to be knocked out – they may change their business models, sharpen their processes or introduce new technologies – authorities and regulators need to make sure to change the regulatory framework. Customers obviously appreciate the new services. It is something new that has come to stay and is driving progress forward. Is the person performing a service a private individual or an entrepreneur? Yes, for the customer it does not matter much, as long as the transaction is safe and liability issues such as insurance and the like are resolved. From a tax perspective, the conditions need to be clear to the old companies but also to those operating in the collaborative economy. This applies to VAT and corporate taxes, but also to any employers' contributions. The IRS has as its slogan: It should be easy to do the right thing. It was the finance market minister inside. It is really important to apply this here too. Given that the person paying the tax can be either a private individual or a company, there needs to be clear guidelines on how it should be done in concrete terms. This also applies, of course, to other authorities with which sharing individuals or entrepreneurs need to come into contact. Maybe some kind of certification would have been a good idea? It would also be a means of legitimising the serious players, irrespective of whether they are private individuals or businesses. When we talk about the last industrial revolution at the end of 1800 and the beginning of the 20th century, we have come to terms with it. We know so far afterwards that it meant that social development took off considerably and that income per capita rose. However, we do not spend much time discussing what it was like for those who came from the farms into the cities and factories, lived crowded and worked hard. It took quite a long time before we had the modern society that came out of this hard work. Many believe that we are facing a similar radical change now, and that unexplained long-term unemployment and rising income gaps – which, while remaining within Sweden's borders, apply in many parts of the world – while the economy has taken off again are clear signals about that. We therefore need to have better tools and more knowledge of what is already under way. The sharing economy is an example here. It's come and growing fast. I cannot ask questions relating to the labour market, which are also concerned. On the other hand, I am curious whether the Minister for Finance has picked up any signals that we are facing a new era and in such cases which.
i-f0e927413d116c77-393	Mr President, I would like to I think it is difficult to ignore or ignore the fact that we are actually facing a rather big upheaval. Even in the rather short period of time that the collaborative economy has begun to become a major factor in the economic arena, much has happened. I saw figures from the US economy which expect only the Internet platforms currently in place around the collaborative economy to have a turnover of USD 100 billion and that it is expected to increase significantly in the coming years. It is also said that there are already millions of employees working in this sector in the US economy and that it is also a sector that is growing very rapidly in terms of the number of employees. I therefore believe that we should clearly see that there are opportunities in this economic sector. When you start exchanging services and products with each other, it is also a way of creating jobs. This is something that even the Swedish economy really needs. When I am out talking, I notice that there is concern about these phenomena. I understand that companies that have built up their business around a market model now feel threatened by the collaborative economy. One should probably try to see the possibilities in this rather than the threats, especially from a societal perspective. Lessons can be learned from the first wave of digitalisation. When, for example, the phenomenon of file sharing began to become a major activity in society, many companies felt threatened. They had built their business around distributing physical plastic discs to simply deliver film and music. There, for example, Sweden chose not to go all the way and try to limit and stop this phenomenon. As a result, we have actually received legal and very extensive distribution channels, such as Spotify and other suppliers of streaming music and also film. There are obviously opportunities here to find new market models within these companies, and new companies are emerging. We can all agree that we, as consumers, have achieved a great deal better through the opening up of these channels. We can now get music straight down our phones and in our homes without having to detour via the record store or buy it online. I think it is this development that we will see in more and more markets. The sharing economy will offer us new ways of obtaining these services. It is relevant, as Anette Åkesson also suggests, to make a broad analysis of this phenomenon. That is something the government is also looking at. But I also believe that the State could play a role, for example by having some kind of guarantee function or by creating additional security around the transactions that this entails. Certification could be a means of demonstrating that a particular supplier, for example, meets reasonable requirements for paying taxes and the like. We know from other economic activities that if taxes are sloppy, they are often sloppy even with many other parts. I believe, as I said, that there is much to gain from this. I would particularly like to highlight the environmental aspect here. If more use is made of car pools, tool pools and the like to share resources, it is clear that less resources are also needed to be taken up from the earth's crust, and less energy is needed to produce these products. This may lead to fewer of these products being sold, which could have a negative impact on the economy. But I am convinced that there will be many new jobs and services that we cannot even imagine today that will compensate even more for this possible loss. At the same time, we will have a much more resource-efficient economy in the future, and I think that is something that we should all strive for.
i-f0e927413d116c77-403	Mr President, I would like to I understand that the Minister for the Financial Market has a very positive attitude towards this and also seems to be fairly familiar. I'm glad. The reform that is often invoked is the home-pc reform 20 years ago, when political decisions were taken which then had effects much later. Today, we must find similar reforms that will benefit us later. Undeniably, it is an exciting time in which we live. I am personally very curious about how the development will go about the collaborative economy but also about other areas where digitalisation has started to take off. It is amazing that it is possible to use resources in a better way. It may be to share products or that ownership becomes different. Although there may be those who want to, we cannot stop progress. Therefore, it is important to make the best of the situation, and the best thing is not to sit still in the boat. The sharing economy is already here, and it is growing. It is crucial that we ensure that the legislation is in place so that we are attractive to new and future companies in the collaborative economy and so that the conditions are fair for traditional companies. Traditional companies are challenged in a new way, and some will need to review their operations. But it would be tragic if businesses were to disappear and jobs lost because we as legislators were too slow to react. Moreover, robust legislation will make us an even more attractive country to invest in, and that benefits us all. I thank the Minister for Finance for the debate.
i-f0e927413d116c77-408	Mr President, I would like to I am very pleased with the enthusiasm shown by Anette Åkesson on this issue, and I very much share this enthusiasm. However, I agree that we also see that there is a need to review the regulatory framework and analyse whether more needs to be done. What I am most concerned about is the fact that, unfortunately, bad examples are emerging that deprive the legitimacy and credibility of this market. Unfortunately, we have already seen some negative examples of what is known as crowdfunding, for example, and of economic operators operating in these arenas. Of course, they must also really meet the criteria that we need to set in order for us as customers to be able to feel safe. As I said, we have already seen shortcomings there. It shows that we do not have time to drag our feet, but we need to analyse these effects and come up with relevant reforms in the near future. I therefore believe that there is a great opportunity for the Swedish economy. But, of course, we must also ensure that the transition to new economic models is painless and without having negative consequences for unemployment or economic activity in our society. If we do this wisely by also opening up opportunities for these new business models, I am convinced that we will be able to have a better and stronger society in the future and that we will also be able to retain the revenue we receive from taxes that we need precisely to maintain our welfare and the social systems that we need to be a well-functioning society. On the part of the government, we see this as a great opportunity. But, of course, we must also deal with the problems and conflicts that inevitably arise as new economic models develop.
i-f0e927413d116c77-412	Mr President, I would like to Kerstin Lundgren has asked me whether I think it is reasonable for Sweden to divide the Swedish Finns as belonging or excluded from belonging to a national minority according to which of the national language groups in Finland they once belonged and whether I see that there are reasons why the Swedish Finns in Sweden should be treated as a national minority and, if so, who they are. In addition, Kerstin Lundgren has asked me if I am prepared to take the initiative for a change in the Swedish Finnish minority, or if the Finnish Swedes in Sweden have their own status as a national minority. The basis for national minority policy in Sweden is two European Council Conventions: the Framework Convention on the Protection of National Minorities and the European Charter on Regional or Minority Languages. When the five national minorities and the five minority languages were recognised, it was stated that Swedish finns refer to Finnish native speakers, which is also in line with the purpose of the Language Charter. The commitments under the Framework Convention presuppose that the minority in question is different from the majority population on certain grounds. The main difference between the Swedish Finnish minority and the Swedish majority population is the Finnish language, but also that there is a special Swedish culture. Since the Swedish-speaking group does not have these distinctive grounds, it is not considered to be covered by the Framework Convention. This was also stated in the preparatory work when the five national minorities were recognised, an assessment shared by the Constitutional Committee. In the following discussion of the matter, Parliament and the Government have not found any reason to revise this position. There have also been no changes in circumstances since the Parliament's last decision on the matter in 2009. I therefore see no reason now to make a different assessment than before.
i-f0e927413d116c77-416	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for the answer to my interpellation. There are two reasons why I woke up the interpellation, Mr President. One is that we were pleased to note that the Government wanted to make national minority issues its most important issue during its term of office. This promised well for an issue that in the Swedish debate has been a stone in the shoe for quite a long time, namely the handling of the Swedish majority population by the Swedish group in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to I have heard the answers to my questions and I note that there may be some work to be done on the review of the Framework Convention. The framework convention clearly states that it is not only about language but also about culture and self-identification – a picture of long history that can be seen, as it were. It is a bit exciting that the Swedish majority here in Parliament do not see a large part of the Finnish nation, namely the part that speaks Swedish. We from the Swedish majority in Sweden make them all Swedes because they speak the language Swedish. V i removes their right to their own culture and history. If we look at the definition referred to by the Government, we see that to belong to the national minority in Sweden you do not need to speak Finnish, but it is enough that you are the descendant of someone who speaks Finnish. There, then, language is not decisive. If you are a descendant of someone who speaks Finnish, you are part of the national minority. If, on the other hand, you are the descendant of someone who has spoken Swedish – someone who has probably also been able to speak Finnish but who has been understood to speak Swedish, which is one of the two recognised languages in Finland – you are deprived of your history, culture and residence in Finland. I find that very strange. Suddenly Sweden and the Swedish Parliament make the Moomins Swedish, Mr. Speaker – because they speak Swedish. Tove Jansson speaks Swedish, so of course there is no special Finnish history. There's no connection. I think there are reasons for the Government to think further about how we have handled the fourth of the Swedish Finns who have had the Swedish language as their background. We deprive them of their history, their cultural identity and their right to be a part of Finland. They suddenly do not become part of the national minority, as we have defined from the language convention and from the point of view of the language charter. Mr President, I would like to The Government has obviously missed that the KU in its latest report, 2014/ 15:KU16, chose to say that there is reason to look at what the definition has looked like. It was said that this should be an issue investigated in a future review of minority policy. However, when I raise the question here, the Government does not refer to this report and does not comment on that statement. Rather, she refers to a position taken in 2009. But some things have happened since then. Shouldn't there be reason to evaluate and consider whether the definition was correct?
i-f0e927413d116c77-424	Mr President, I would like to Member of Parliament Lundgren has asked questions about Finnish Swedes, and given the lack of knowledge about our national minorities, there is reason to point out some basic facts. I am absolutely convinced that Member of Parliament Lundgren knows everything about this, but it needs to be emphasised because there are many and great misconceptions. Only 66 percent of the adult population in Sweden can mention a national minority. Initially, the aim and objective of the national minority policy is to protect national minorities, strengthen their ability to influence and support the historical minority languages in order to keep them alive. It's the basics. The government already announced in the 2014 Government Declaration that national minorities are important and that we will strengthen their conditions during our term of office. In Sweden there are five national minorities: Jews, Sami, Swedish Finns, Roma and tornadoes. There are also five national minority languages: Yiddish, Romanichib, Sami, Meänkieli and Finnish. It should also be stressed that the Sami are an indigenous people. Some of the grounds for being appointed as a national minority are that there should be a pronounced community and an own identity as well as that one has been in the country for hundreds of years. The benchmark is usually used for the formation of Sweden in 1523, and the Sami have been in the territory of Sápmi for thousands of years. It should be stressed. With Swedish Finns, that is, one of our national minorities whose language needs protection – Sweden has committed itself to this through the conventions – means people of Finnish origin living in Sweden and living in Finnish as their native language, as well as their descendants. Finnish Swedes refer to persons living in Finland whose mother tongue is Swedish and also to persons whose mother tongue is Swedish who have moved to Sweden from Finland, as well as their descendants. Then we come to the question of why Finns are not a national minority. It is because the distinctive characteristic, which is the basis for Sweden's finding being a national minority, is the language. Since the Finnish-Swedish dialect did not differ sufficiently from the majority Swedish, the status of a national minority does not include persons of Finnish origin with Swedish as their mother tongue. It is written in the conventions, and that is why both previous governments and the Riksdag have taken this decision.
i-f0e927413d116c77-430	Mr President, I would like to I was in the KU when we discussed the issues, and I sat with and discussed when we presented proposals for a new form of government that just dealt with, for example, the issue of indigenous peoples and national minorities. That discussion is therefore, of course, present. I am also present in the context of the Council of Europe and follow the image it is working on with regard to these conventions and this Charter in Europe. However, the issue at issue here is Sweden's interpretation. An interpretation was made, and we agreed at the time. But what I am trying to awaken, Mr President, is the curiosity of the Government as to whether that interpretation was the only true one. What scientific basis is there for saying that there is no cultural difference, as is mentioned in the Framework Convention, between Sweden and Finland? Is it the Government's view that for those who have had their lives in Finland, no matter what language they speak, and those who have their ancestors in Finland, no matter what language they speak, there is no difference compared to Swedes in terms of cultural base and identity? Are there no differences between Sweden and Finland other than the language? So is it only if you have the language that you are part of Finland and have the right to be regarded as a national minority? I think it is a strange attitude that the Swedish majority community, the Swedish parliament, does not dare to open the door to see that there are Finns who have a culture that is different from ours. The language may be the same, but the culture, identity and self-experience are something else. We share the nation of Finland in two parts when people come to Sweden. If you are part of Finnish-speaking Finland, you become part of the national minority, and if you are part of Swedish-speaking Finland, you are excluded from that minority. I find this odd, Mr President. I think that, as the KU actually said, there is reason to review the issue – especially if you have a commitment to national minorities. Don't get stuck in the Language Charter! See also the Framework Convention and its intentions! I would advise the Government, Mr President.
i-f0e927413d116c77-435	Mr President, I would like to I'm stuck in the language charter and I'm taking hold of it. The language – and it is also written in the Conventions – is one of the crucial indicators and what bears the commitments that Sweden has committed itself to meeting with the national minorities. Most of the legislative rights in this area are aimed at minority languages. They are the key to securing the rights of national minorities. It's not an opinion, it's a fact. It is the state, in this case Sweden, which, in accordance with the provisions of the two conventions, chooses which minorities and minority languages are to be recognised as national minorities and minority languages. As with all groups seeking recognition as a national minority, it is essential that there is a clear specificity to the majority population and the language of the majority. This particularity may be traditional, religious, ethnic or cultural, but language is an extremely important factor and a starting point. In the case of the Swedish Finnish group, the Finnish language is the main basis for the status of a national minority language. In the case of the Finnish-Swedish group speaking Swedish, it does not differ from the majority language as a dialect. Since it is mainly linguistic rights that the law should guarantee, I see no reason to make a different assessment than that which has been made in the past.
i-f0e927413d116c77-439	Mr President, I would like to This means that the KU's signal to review the issue has obviously not been heeded by the Government. Article 5, Part 2, states that the Parties shall promote the conditions necessary for persons to retain essential elements of their identity, namely religion, language, traditions and cultural heritage. This is where the Council of State only gets caught up in language. The other parts are thus excluded. It is strange that, when Finland's cause is ours, we in Sweden so often choose to divide the Finnish population into two parts. You don't have to speak Finnish to belong to the national minority in Sweden. You just need to have a descendant who has spoken Finnish. Of two Swedish speakers from Finland with Finnish background, one may belong to the national minority, the other not belonging to it and is excluded. I think, Mr President, that this is a strange attitude from Swedish society and from the Swedish Parliament. I think it would be nice if the Government looked at this issue again.
i-f0e927413d116c77-444	Mr President, I would like to This is the case, as a Member of Parliament Lundgren knows, that anyone or those who want to take part in cultural or other activities and who belong to the Swedish Finnish group have every opportunity to do so. However, in order to be appointed a national minority and a national minority language, language is one of the most important factors, and it should be clearly distinguished from the majority language. Again, I see no reason to look at this further. I am pleased with the commitment and attach importance to the fact that the Swedish Parliament, and not least the committees, is pushing questions around our national minorities. For example, the Committee on Culture can work to promote a Sweden filled with diversity where everyone has the opportunity to participate in different cultures and also to develop their cultures and specialities. I think we all benefit from that.
i-f0e927413d116c77-446	Mr President, I would like to Maria Stockhaus has asked how the Minister for Social Security views how the Welfare Investigation and limitations in the RUT deduction affect entrepreneurship in industries where many women choose to start a business. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. I can first of all note that the total purchases by municipalities and county councils from private operators have continued to increase in recent years. In order to create long-term and stable conditions in welfare activities, it is necessary to investigate the issues properly in order to get the most thought-out regulatory framework possible. It is through long-term and stable conditions that uncertainty for the actors in the welfare sector is eliminated. I would also like to remind you that the Government states in the directives to the Welfare Investigation that the requirements for companies in the welfare sector that wish to receive public funding should be designed in such a way that they safeguard a variety of performers and enable activities in the welfare sector to continue to be carried out in different forms of operation and ownership. Almost 2 per cent of those who make RUT deductions are expected to make deductions for more than SEK 25 000 in 2016. The changes in the RUT deduction proposed in the budget proposal for 2016 mean that it is directed more towards the needs of ordinary families with children and pensioners for household services. This will not make any difference for the vast majority of those who are currently making RUT deductions. These changes are therefore considered to have a very limited impact on entrepreneurs in the RUT industry. However, I would like to emphasise that I do not believe that special tax-subsidised sectors or the possibility of collecting large profits from tax-funded activities is the key to an equal society. Moreover, it is an outdated view that women could only set up businesses in certain specific sectors. What is important is to enable women's and men's entrepreneurship on equal terms in all sectors. The Swedish Agency for Growth has presented a strategy for how women and men can participate in the business promotion activities on equal terms. The strategy is an important tool for further work to promote sustainable growth and a dynamic business environment. Gender standards need to be changed to create a less gender-segregated labour market. Women currently take greater responsibility than men for domestic work and for caring for relatives. This means that women are hit harder when welfare does not work. A functioning welfare system is thus an important prerequisite for women's participation in working life. Consequently, putting the quality of welfare in focus, and ensuring that tax funds are used for the welfare activities for which they are intended, is one way of promoting greater equality. Last but not least, I note that the decision on more individualised parental insurance is an important step in the right direction for a more equal society.
i-f0e927413d116c77-454	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Government very much for its answer. I had originally asked Annika Strandhäll the question, because we were present at the same seminar organised by Företagarna. There was a panel of entrepreneurs in the welfare sector, and they were concerned that the changes in RUT and the current study on welfare gains have adversely affected their ability to develop their businesses. I and the Government agree that quality is the most important thing for those who use our welfare services. That is the way to a high quality in all activities on which we do not really agree. In the answer, the Government refers to the need for a more equal labour market where it is equally natural for men and women to work and start businesses in all sectors. I fully agree with the Government, but that is not what it looks like today. Today, there are sectors where women dominate and sectors where men dominate, and we must also relate to the current situation and ensure that there are opportunities for women to set up businesses in the welfare sector. When Social Democracy was completely dominant – at the time when there were only two television channels – there were very little opportunities for women who worked in health care and school to start a business. At the time, there was no possibility of public funding. It was thanks to the Alliance's policy, which focused on freedom of choice and diversity in the welfare sector, that women in these professions were able to set up businesses and change employers. I've met many of these female entrepreneurs, not least in preschool and school – these are the issues that I work with most. There are many good women in my own municipality, Sollentuna. There are two women who were budding from a number of preschools and started Inspira which is now one of the major actors in preschool and school in the Stockholm area. They have reinvested most of their surpluses, and the business is of high quality with satisfied parents and satisfied employees. The directives for the study on welfare gains focus on changing the economic conditions of private actors in the welfare sector. The investigation puts a heavy and wet blanket across the welfare sector and the opportunities to start a business. It is difficult even for existing companies that want to expand to obtain loans. The major players will surely survive and survive. They also feel that many of the smaller players are now trying to sell to the big ones, who have economic muscles to cope with changing conditions, which is extremely much more difficult for those who are smaller. You can look at what the so-called big profits, as the Government talks about in its answer, look like. There is a compilation from 2014 that looks at the large groups in the welfare sector. There was a profit before tax of 3%. Is it really Swedish welfare's biggest problem? Until we have a completely equal labour market, where the proportion of men and women is equally distributed in different sectors, restrictions on freedom of choice and restrictions on entrepreneurship in the welfare sector, which is now under way, will hit women's entrepreneurship harder. It is strange that a government that calls itself feminist so hard drives issues that so negatively affect women's opportunities to start and run businesses.
i-f0e927413d116c77-463	Mr President, I would like to Sweden has thus received the world's first so-called feminist government. It says it stands for concepts such as gender mainstreaming and gender budgeting. But it is one thing to claim that one stands for certain values and another to live up to one's claim. And like many policies, feminism also seems to be absent from the feminist government. As Maria Stockhaus points out, the political proposals put forward by the government have hit women with almost sharp precision. It started already during the election year. The message of the government parties and the Left Party about welfare companies and RUT deductions was clear in the election movement, and it directly affected women's companies. According to a Global Entrepreneurship Monitor survey, the proportion of women among start-ups in Sweden fell by nearly 40 per cent from 2013 to 2014. This was despite the general increase in the number of start-ups. From being at the top, women's entrepreneurship in Sweden ended up in a bottom position compared to other countries. Mr President, I would like to The RUT deduction has really boosted women's entrepreneurship. The Minister calls it outdated, but to me it is the results that count, and they are clear. According to Statistics Sweden, the number of entrepreneurs in cleaning services increased by 24 per cent in three years since the RUT deduction was introduced. The figure for the whole labour market was 7 per cent. Women accounted for 59 per cent of new entrepreneurs. RUT is also a sector where many foreign women have started businesses. Sixty-three per cent of new entrepreneurs were born abroad, and women born abroad accounted for nearly 40 per cent of all new entrepreneurs in the industry. It is estimated that the RUT deduction has created 20,000 new jobs. Three out of four of those who got those jobs have come directly from unemployment. We are talking about real jobs, not trainee places or temporary subsidised employment. Mr President, I would like to The changes made by the government are not so great, says the Minister in his response to Maria Stockhaus. According to him, they won't make a difference. But they do. According to a survey by Visma from as late as September this year, one in three RUT entrepreneurs believes that they will have to terminate their employment. This therefore plays a role in women's entrepreneurship, but it also plays a role in gender equality. In its consultation on the change in RUT, the Swedish Financial Control Agency points out that the proposal has not taken into account the gender impact at all. The work refers to a study from Stockholm University that shows that married women's income is increasing thanks to RUT. The women in the study spent over half of the time that RUT work at home freed up for their work. Only by beginning to deteriorate in the system creates a great uncertainty in the industry. Every entrepreneur I've met emphasises the importance of long-term rules of play. Now the government is starting to mess up the RUT deduction. What is it that says that the next step will not be to deteriorate further? And who dares to invest in an industry that gets worse conditions? The signals that the government is sending out now create great uncertainty, and this directly affects women's entrepreneurship. Against this background, how the government's proposal for deterioration in the industry can be called feminist is a mystery.
i-f0e927413d116c77-470	Mr President, I would like to It is sometimes the case that ideological blindings and starting points cause us to have some strange debates in this House, for example as far as the RUT deduction is concerned. Several of the parliamentary parties have just agreed on an initiative that will enable better integration into the labour market. So we will have to debate conflicts that may not actually exist in Swedish politics. We agree that the RUT deduction should remain in place. We agree that it is a deduction that is used by households and creates jobs. There are no proposals to abolish the RUT deduction. The amendment supported by the government does not even concern 2% of those who deduct RUT. It is reasonable to look at issues relating to ceilings, for example, in different deduction systems. But it is by no means the case that the government has plans to abolish the RUT deduction or to reduce it. I am a little surprised at the introduction to this discussion. As far as welfare services are concerned, I can say that public welfare in Sweden is organised in such a way that we have alternative forms of operation and a variety of performers, which increases freedom of choice for users. The government is behind that model. The model is an effect of changes implemented in the early 90s. When these changes were implemented, the target was increases for different types of actors, but the effects of the changes were not achieved. Above all, we notice that we currently have a regulatory framework that benefits large players. The idea-based sector has a very small share of welfare activities, despite the fact that the idea of the changes made in the early 1990s was to allow also cooperative solutions and idea-driven actors. We have had a lot of problems with the use of resources and have been able to see that in some cases the regulations allow resources not to be used for what they are intended for. We are currently having a debate on housing for asylum seekers, where we see the use of resources that are not at all consistent with the intentions of government. We have shortcomings in the regulatory framework. This is what the Moderate Party knows. Therefore, the Moderates have also recognised that we need to look at the legislation we have in the area of welfare and implement changes in order to achieve better control of quality issues and resource use. It is important that we dare to ask all the relevant questions in this investigation work. We need to look at the issues of quality regulation. We need to look at the issues relating to the purpose of the operation. We need to look at the issues of resource use, transparency and transparency. We agree that the current regulatory framework is not sufficient. We see that there are actors who do not use the resources for what they are intended for, but we do not have the legal tools to take action. However, as politicians, we have an obligation to take action. The government is keen to engage in dialogue with the other parliamentary parties and create long-term sustainable regulations. It is not wrong for two decades after these reforms to evaluate the regulatory framework and take the necessary measures to ensure that the quality of welfare activities is high and that resources are used for what they are intended for.
i-f0e927413d116c77-477	Mr President, I would like to I share the view of the Government that an evaluation is needed and that changes are needed. But we want the Moderates and the Alliance to focus on ensuring that the investigation is about quality in all operations. It is not the case that municipal activities generally offer a high and uniform quality. There are quite large differences between them as well. Now my interpellation was not about the study on profits in the well-being or about RUT in general, but about the impact this has on women's entrepreneurship. Many women run businesses in this particular sector. The Stockholm Chamber of Commerce has conducted a survey among welfare entrepreneurs in Stockholm County. There, 50 percent say that their activities are adversely affected by the uncertainty caused by this investigation. This has to do with the fact that the investigation focuses very much on the issue of profit and much less on the issue of quality. In its reply, the Government refers to the fact that they are working towards a more equal labour market and that it should be as natural for a woman to possibly start a plumbing business as a home care company. The work that is being done is well-lucky. I don't think there's any difference between us. We also want it to be a more equal labour market. Today, our tax-funded welfare activities are dominated by women. It is in these sectors that women today have greater opportunities to realise ideas by starting their own business. The fact that the labour market will be more equal at some point in the future does not help women who are working in the labour market we have today and who want to start businesses today. It is strange that a feminist government is so one-sidedly focusing on limiting opportunities for entrepreneurship in welfare, where most women are and would have the opportunity to start a business with their skills. When Dagens Samhälle made a compilation of companies that make profits with tax revenue, the large construction companies end up at the top in terms of profits. It's okay to build a preschool and make money, but it's not okay to run a preschool in the premises and make a profit. It's okay to make a profit from medical-technical equipment, but it's not okay to run care using that equipment and make a profit. To me, it seems completely illogical. Even more illogical is it from a feminist perspective when those industries where it is okay to make profits are those that are traditionally dominated by men and male entrepreneurs while those where you want to limit profits are dominated by women and women's entrepreneurship. Something that fascinates me is a question that is never asked. How can it be that there are private operators who can carry out activities in the welfare sector of higher quality or the same quality as a public-run activity and make profits while the municipal or county-run activities in the same area are in deficit year after year? It should be more interesting for taxpayers. Why do we let municipalities and county councils waste our common resources when there are demonstrably a lot of new ideas to be able to run the business more efficiently with higher quality for the same money or perhaps even less money? Instead of making it more difficult and creating uncertainty for all the talented female entrepreneurs in the welfare and RUT sectors, we should consider how we create better conditions for smaller players and support more people to dare to start their own business. We need the good ideas of all these entrepreneurs and should encourage them. Does the government have any ideas at all about how it should be done, or is it completely blinded by its aversion to entrepreneurship in welfare?
i-f0e927413d116c77-488	Mr President, I would like to It is true that we have an agreement on the extension of the RUT deduction in the migration settlement. It nevertheless suggests that the government sees the benefits of it. It is then even more strange with the halving of the deduction. I am delighted that the Minister is today giving a clear message that the Government has no plans to reduce the RUT deduction further. That's good. I hope that promise is kept. A halving is already enough damage. Mr President, I would like to In the government declaration this year, the Prime Minister said that part of the government's new job agenda is an active business policy for more and growing companies. You could call the government's industrial policy active. It is a policy that is actively affecting the business community, not benefiting it. It is more undeclared work with less ROT deductions, less RUT deductions and threats of closure of welfare companies. These are the companies that we need now and in the future more than ever. Moreover, it is companies that are largely run by women. You can call it active business policy, feminist or whatever you want. Of course it affects businesses and women. This is worse for Sweden when we now have to face up to the challenges of the future. The Minister says the debate is strange. Rather, it is the decisions that are hard to understand. It is action and not words that count. It's hard to call the government feminist.
i-f0e927413d116c77-492	Mr President, I would like to There should be an opportunity to agree on a number of principles that should apply to Swedish welfare. One such principle should be that resources should be used for what they are intended for when it comes to tax money. We take in tax money to finance joint commitments. If we want a model where the performance of welfare is not only in the public sector but a model where we allow external actors to operate public welfare services, we need to have rules that ensure quality and resource use. We don't have that today. Resources going to a stand-alone school to raise teachers' salaries can be used for profit distribution. Resources that go to a preschool to increase staffing can be used for profit distribution. These are our common resources. As politicians, we have a responsibility to ensure the efficiency of public activities. We have that obligation to taxpayers. There is a misunderstanding here that the debate is about profit and some kind of profit ban. In fact, there is no party in the Swedish parliament that represents a line on profit bans in public welfare activities. What the debate is about, and which we need to work on in part in the investigation that is in place, is how the regulatory framework should deal with the issue of transfer from public activities to owners. If we do not have a regulatory framework that ensures the use of resources, we will always have to contend with the problem that there is a risk of cutting down on quality and staffing in order to increase profits. It is simply a regulatory framework designed to ensure the quality and proper use of resources. We took on board the criticisms of the bourgeois parties and broadened the mission of the Welfare Investigation. Some quality aspects that were not included in the assignment from the beginning are now included. Why? Because we must dare to ask all the questions that are relevant to welfare issues. We're not in jail with all the answers. The Moderate Coalition Party isn't in jail with all the answers. There are a number of relevant questions that need to be asked. We also need to analyse the effects of the regulatory framework. We should agree that this is very strange. When the City of Stockholm increases funding for schools, and on the basis of a principle of competition neutrality also increases funding for independent schools, in order for teacher salaries to be raised as a strategic measure to improve education for the citizens of the City of Stockholm, it is perfectly possible under current regulations to take those resources and distribute them to the owners. This is perfectly possible under current regulations. When an independent actor wanted to do this, it aroused such an opinion that, due to popular opinion, the operator was forced to back down. Is that the kind of order we're supposed to have? Is it the task of the newspapers to ensure the quality and proper use of resources in public activities? Do we not have the obligation towards taxpayers to ensure efficient use of resources in the public sector? Is it all right, then, to turn a blind eye to the problems that exist in the acquis and which lead to the huge over-profits that we have today in some asylum homes?
i-f0e927413d116c77-501	Mr President, I would like to I would like to remind you that I highlighted a 3% figure for the profit margin of welfare companies last year. This is the case for the largest people who tend to be the biggest in the world when it comes to profits in welfare. When it's 3%, you can hardly talk about huge over-profits. I still don't get an answer. Why is it okay for tax money to go to build hospitals, schools and preschools to go to profit-making companies? There is no problem with tax money going to profit in the male-dominated construction industry. In the women-dominated welfare industry, where there are many female entrepreneurs and where you should run the business in the premises, it is not okay to make wine t. I'm having a hard time understanding that difference. I have some understanding that the Government constantly avoids talking about how the changes in RUT and the Welfare Investigation affect women's entrepreneurship. It is clear, with the evidence that both me and Maria Malmer Stenergard have highlighted, that both the study on profits in welfare and the changes in both RUT and ROT have a negative impact on women's entrepreneurship. This reduces the desire for entrepreneurship in the welfare sector, where women are the ones with the most knowledge and opportunities to start a business. In this way, we miss out on many good ideas and many talented entrepreneurs, which is something that the welfare sector in Sweden needs. We face major challenges in terms of both funding and quality. Without these good ideas, it will be considerably more difficult to cope with these challenges. If you really want to have long-term conditions for the industry in both RUT and welfare services, it would be better to try to change the investigation and get it to focus entirely on quality. Of course, we must also look at the economic conditions. But it has chosen not to do so to bring the Left Party to support the budget.
i-f0e927413d116c77-506	Mr President, I would like to I believe that we have a common objective of promoting quality improvement in public activities. We also agree that there is a need for changes in the regulatory framework for all actors, including those operating in their own right. It is a work carried out by the government. We also work to improve the governance and use of resources in our own operations. However, the goal is that there should be a regulatory framework that ensures the use of resources also by private actors so that we increase the quality there too. Then we must have as a starting point that resources for public activities should be used for public activities. It will require rules on quality, it will require rules on profit withdrawal and it will require rules on the purpose of the business. These rules are not intended to harm equality in the public sector. On the contrary, the rules are there to ensure that we offer citizens the services that are provided in and financed by the public. These services are important for improving equality in our society; we know that. We have knowledge of it, and we can base our policy on research and experience in welfare building. Then you have to ask yourself the questions: Is it reasonable that it should be possible to reduce the staffing of preschools in order to increase profits? Will it benefit equality? Will it benefit the situation of women working in welfare? I have not met a single preschool teacher who has said to me: Allow profit withdrawals to a greater extent so that my employer is cutting back on staffing! However, we must work to ensure the use of resources.
i-QFDhJVpBW7fVy2aG8fgJKu	Mr President, I would like to On 22 October this year, two young people were murdered at a school in Trollhättan in what the police are investigating as a racist hate crime. Planned and existing asylum accommodations have been set on fire around Sweden. On 18 November, Jews closed down their collections after consultation with the security police because of the risk of attacks. During the past week, hate letters with feces have been sent to several representatives of Muslim organisations. In 2014, a record number of hate crimes were reported to the police. In the same year, the National Security Survey from the Swedish Crime Prevention Council showed that almost 2 per cent of Sweden's adult population have been subjected to hate crime. Above all, hate crimes with xenophobic motives were most common. These were estimated at 262 000. Racism is not just a prejudice among others. It also has a long history as an activist movement in confrontation with democracy and human rights. Crimes committed by racists in order to intimidate and terrorise people are a threat not only to individuals but also to the fundamental building blocks of democracy such as freedom of assembly, freedom of opinion and freedom of expression. That is why the Green Party has requested today's current debate. Mr President, I would like to Developments must be reversed. I hope for a constructive debate on the proposals that the government has put forward to create a Sweden free from racism.
i-f0e927413d116c77-515	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I was about to say bystander, but I'm gonna have to wait with it. We have in several ways a dark autumn behind us. It has not been possible for anyone to escape the fact that within a few months we have had to take responsibility for the greatest number of refugees since the Second World War. We have witnessed a number of fires in asylum homes and experienced a school attack in Trollhättan that is being investigated for racist motives. At times like these, it is important to take time to talk about human dignity, because basically human dignity is what the fight against racism is all about. We should not forget that this is a work done in this House, but also by thousands of people every day, in everyday life, at trefikat at work, in demonstrations, at dinner with friends and family when you clearly distance yourself from prejudice. Human dignity has always been challenged, but if there is anything this dark autumn has confirmed, it is that the struggle for the equal value of all people makes it more important than ever. To quote Olof Palme, who also thought in these paths and whose words are probably exactly as topical now as then: The democracy is firmly established here in the country. We respect fundamental rights and freedoms. Gracious racial theories have never found foothold. We are happy to view ourselves as open - minded and tolerant. But it's still not that simple. Prejudice does not need to be anchored in an atrocious theory. It has a much simpler origin. Prejudice always has its roots in everyday life. It germinates in the workplace and in the neighbourhood. It is an outlet for own failures and disappointments. It is above all an expression of ignorance and fear. Ignorance of the specificity of other people, fear of losing a position, a social privilege, a prior right. A person's skin colour, race, language and birthplace have nothing to do with human qualities. Grading people with such standards is in stark contrast with the principle of equal value. But it is shamefully easy to use for the person who feels inferior — in the workplace, in social life, in the competition for the girl or the boy. Therefore, prejudice is always lurking, even in an enlightened society. It can burst out into a stickword, an inconsiderate line, a tediousness in the little. Maybe the person who acts doesn't mean that bad. But for the one who gets hit, it can tear open wounds that never heal. Most of us humans have a need to assert ourselves against others. And then the prejudice against the deviant – the foreigner, the stranger – is available as a final scan. ..................................................... I believe that these words of Olof Palme are unfortunately equally topical today, when we see the foundation of prejudice flare up around us. Annika Hirvonen Falk, like me, mentioned the crimes, the attacks, we have seen around the country. Several measures are now being taken to combat these crimes. On behalf of the Government, the Police Authority has ordered several measures to develop the work against hate crimes. Special hate crime groups have been established in Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö. The police have strengthened the capabilities of the units, and the work against hatred and threats should be carried out with a broader perspective than before. Today, twice as many police officers are investigating hate crimes as when the government took office. Hate crime capability shall be established throughout Sweden. This means that each region will increase its capacity to solve these types of crimes. Moreover, the government has greatly increased the resources for security work within religious congregations. It is money that should be used for both security-enhancing physical measures and purely human resources. Mr President, I would like to Sweden is now implementing the largest refugee reception since the Second World War. While people are fleeing for their lives, we have seen a series of fires and damage to asylum homes. Much suggests that some of the recent fires are constructed. A month ago, I met with the police and the Migration Agency to discuss the measures now being taken by the authorities. Pre-studies are conducted locally but with support and coordination from the National Operations Department. Since October, guidelines for police regions to have increased attention to asylum accommodation apply. The Finnish Immigration Service uses more security guards and guards. The police have decided to quickly train security officers and broaden their interpretation of the Police Act in order to make it possible to use more security officers. In addition to the other supervision, the police aircraft is used in all police regions. It is about helicopters equipped with thermal camera and infrared camera to be able to see even at night. Mr President, I would like to It's been a dark fall. But when we look back to the past year in the future, I hope we remember this autumn when Sweden actually gathered – gathered in its work against racism, in its opposition to hatred and in the conviction of everyone's right to a life of freedom, security and security.
i-f0e927413d116c77-537	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by thanking the Green Party for the initiative for this important debate. I share their view that racism is not just a prejudice among others, but has a long history as an activist movement in confrontation with democracy and human rights. In addition, this activism feeds on the general prejudices and preconceptions that we may have until now, and in other words, we are influenced by the activists. Through imprudent and inappropriate statements, we can help to strengthen these movements, and their propaganda reaches out and affects many, not least with the help of the Internet today. On the other hand, there is, of course, every opportunity to reach out with knowledge of people's equal value, rights and facts about what is happening today. That is the positive side of the coin, which we must tackle. The idea of dividing people into groups according to skin colour, gender, religion, sexuality or other and then rank them group by group is, of course, preposterous. Each person is unique and has both rights and responsibilities as a person. Although collectivist thinking is wrong, both history and the present show that far too many devote time and effort to developing ideas on how to group, label and rank people. We-and-de-thinking in its extreme form is harmful not only to individuals and their integrity, but also to the society we want. The Moderates start from every human being as an individual. Everyone has the same value and must be treated with respect and have their rights and freedoms. That is why racism and extreme ideas must be combated. It is a task in every time for anyone who wants an open and tolerant society, and where everyone can contribute. Politics and public affairs, of course, have their responsibilities. We have our constitutions. We have legislation with the firm ambition to protect fundamental rights and freedoms. The fact that the legislation is clear and useful is something that we must constantly monitor in this House. In June last year, an investigator was tasked with reviewing the penalties for breaches of privacy, with a particular focus on online threats and violations. The review shall consider whether the criminal provisions on unlawful threats, harassment, slander and insult and, if necessary, other criminal provisions to protect personal privacy need to be clarified, extended or otherwise amended. The investigator will also see whether criminal law protection should be complemented with respect to the dissemination of data that infringe privacy outside the constitutionally protected area, and whether there is a need to impose criminal liability on the provider of an electronic notice board, which does not delete or otherwise prevent the dissemination of messages that violate the personal integrity of individuals. The mission will be presented after Christmas and will be extremely important also on the basis of the issues we are discussing today. We need to ensure that crimes are reported. Too many people who are victims of hate crimes do not dare or are unable to report the crime. It's a concern. In addition, the ability of law enforcement authorities to prosecute those who commit crimes must be good. There is much more to be done here. Annika Hirvonen Falk told us something about the number of notifications, but perhaps did not mention the problem we have with a very small clarification. The results are quite poor, partly because it can be difficult to find the offender. In 2013, an investigation was initiated in 59 per cent of the cases. The clearance was 5 percent. Of course it's not good enough. The Alliance government pursued a clear line against hate crimes. We commissioned the then National Police Board to develop the police's work against hate crimes. This resulted in what the Minister for the Interior told us, that is, proposals for the establishment of three hate crime units, reinforcements in all areas around Polissverige and a doubling of the number of employees. I understand the Minister that this is now in place, and I would therefore like to ask: is it not, in view of the efforts that the police are facing, that we are in danger of having cuts in the work of hate crimes in the police? Important in this context is to mention the mission of the Swedish Security Service concerning unauthorised interference. Säpo monitors and monitors actors who are politically motivated in extremist environments, and in both the white power environment and the autonomous environment there are people who, through threats, violence and other crimes, want politicians and others to refrain from engaging in various issues. Here, too, racism is an important factor. Mr President, I would like to During the 1990s, a number of very serious crimes were committed in the form of attacks against refugee camps, the laser man ravaged and the white power groups began to mobilize. An examination of the motives shows that most were racist. What are the reasons for what we see happening today is not yet evaluated and clear, but two things are certain. One is that more crimes need to be cleared up. The second is that the work to strengthen knowledge of the equal value of all people and of extremist ideas must be improved.
i-f0e927413d116c77-548	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating racism and hate crime in the Swedish Parliament. This is, of course, an ever-present and important subject. To debate racism and hate crime is a little bit to note things that we in this House agree on for once, things that are self-evident to us. To treat people differently on the basis of external attributes such as skin colour is totally reprehensible and something that we in the Swedish Democrats strongly reject. Since it may be somewhat long-winded to point out obvious points during an entire speech, I intended to focus on anti-racist work and hate crime prevention and the reality picture that exists, those aspects of racism on which there is no consensus in this House. When discussing racism and xenophobia, it is important to have in mind that while we have had a lot of worrying events, we can nevertheless be grateful that we live in one of the least racist countries in the world when it comes to attitudes towards immigrants and other cultures. This can be seen in principle from all the studies carried out, including by the European Union, the World Value Study and the German Marshall Fund. All these studies show that Swedes make very little difference to people based on their ethnic background. It is positive and should be highlighted at least as much as recurring alarm reports in different contexts. We have a very good foundation to stand on in that work. The Swedish people are not racist or xenophobic. The fact that racism and xenophobia are less widespread in our country does not, of course, mean that it is not an issue that we should take very seriously. On the contrary, we must work consistently and purposefully to curb this. It is a good thing that previous governments and the current government have taken a long series of measures in relation to this work, because we can see that the number of hate crimes has, after all, increased slightly. This happens in combination with the fact that we have governments that pursue policies that tear up wounds and create divisions in Swedish society. Therefore, the work against racism and hate crime is very important. Attitudes and values can change faster than you think in extreme times, and if development continues in this way, we may no longer have the world's most tolerant population. Then perhaps we are not at the top of the spectrum in terms of respect and tolerance. We have been able to read about asylum homes that are burning, and although we know quite little about the background today, it is not possible to get away from the fact that, in many cases, there can be landscaped fires with xenophobic motives. That, of course, is totally unacceptable. It is positive that measures have been taken to improve security and it is important that the perpetrators of such crimes are prosecuted as soon as possible. Mr President, I would like to Our rejection of racism and hate crime is general and consistent. But we feel that we sometimes want to hide parts of that coin. It may sound like only Europeans behave racistly or have racist values. It's not like that. The so-called multicultural society means that there are many conflict areas that are relatively new to our country. Perhaps the most obvious example is hatred of Jews in Malmö, where much of the hate crimes in 2013 and 2014 were directed against the Jewish group. To be clear, it is an imported anti-Semitism from the Middle East, which many do not want to know. They prefer to pretend that it is neo-Nazis and others who commit those crimes, but all Jews know that this is not the case in Malmö. It can also be mentioned that the Middle East is one of the areas in the world where xenophobia is most widespread. That should be borne in mind, because it will also create challenges for our country. There are more examples of groups that rather expected cannot keep home country conflicts away. We can see more of that. For example, we have been able to see Christian asylum seekers who come to Sweden and flee Islamist terror but who face similar attitudes in Sweden already during the reception process. We can also see that uncontrolled migration completely out of step with the needs of the labour market creates tensions between peoples in Sweden. This is a development to which we must pay attention. At the same time, it must be stressed that it is not racism to oppose immigration policy. It is not racism to protect Swedish culture or Swedish interests. And what other political representatives have also experienced is that it is not actually racism to try to create regulations that reduce the flow of asylum to Sweden. Racism has more faces than many would imagine. My party feels a particular responsibility to lift the types of racism that others do not lift. Every day, young people from Swedish backgrounds experience racism in many schools in our country. Unfortunately, problems with racism today are being used by political representatives to serve their own purposes. Some things are highlighted. You hide other things. The Western world's worst integration policy has been launched, but instead of tackling the problems, it chooses to paint Swedish entrepreneurs as xenophobic because the employment rate among newcomers is extremely low. Instead, it could be seen that the reason for this is that the level of education is extremely low.
i-f0e927413d116c77-560	Mr President, I would like to Everyone should have the right to feel safe and secure in Sweden. Every time someone is abused by their partner, subjected to harassment at school or discriminated against in the restaurant queue, something breaks – not only in that person's belief in the legal society, but in Sweden as a society. ..................................................... This is how the section on democracy and justice begins in the Green Party Election Manifesto. Racism is one of the major social problems of our time. Racism underpins hatred and prejudice, which is expressed in its ultimate form by hate crimes against individuals. We need to understand in action that the fight against racism must be based on the understanding that racism is not an isolated problem and that it is everywhere in our society and that it takes many different forms. The objective of the Green Party is that racism and discrimination should have no place in our country. I wanted to explain some of the measures that we have pushed through in the government to combat racism. Among other things, the Government has announced that it will develop a national action plan against racism and hate crime. It will include action against various forms of racism and hostility, including aphrophobia, anti-Semitism, anti-Ziganism, homophobia, Islamophobia, transphobia and racism against Sami. During the autumn, work has already started with a number of dialogues with civil society led by, among others, Minister for Culture Alice Bah Kuhnke. It has been about how racism, discrimination and hate crime are expressed and how it affects people in Sweden today. Through dialogue with civil society and representatives of particularly vulnerable groups, this anti-racism collection has produced and submitted a number of proposals for action to the government. The action plan against racism and hate crime will be presented next year, but work has already intensified. The draft budget, which will be debated within a few weeks in this House, greatly reinforces support for the work against discrimination with increased funding for the Equality Ombudsman, anti-discrimination agencies, the LGBTQ movement, the disability movement and the work against racism. The Government has also announced that it will propose an independent human rights institution in Sweden. It should be an institution set up to review how Sweden as a country fulfils its international commitments regarding human rights. In addition, in 2015, the Government has commissioned the Discrimination Ombudsman, the Living History Forum and the Swedish National Agency for Education to step up its work against racism. But, Mr President, racism has existed in our country for a long time. In some times it has even been a government-sponsored policy. We in the Green Party are very keen to make it visible, and we are pleased that the Forum for Living History but also the Commission against Anti-Ziganism is working to make that story visible. I shall respond to what the previous speaker said. He said that in Sweden there are no racists. Then I would remind the House that racism and racism are labels, but what we are talking about are the actions, actions and words that we, as citizens and fellow human beings, carry out and say to each other. Just as we are not free from the notions of the sex power system, we are also not free from the racist notions that have operated to varying degrees for a long time in our country. We must therefore work constantly to make ourselves and each other aware of racism and the consequences of racism.
i-f0e927413d116c77-570	Mr President, I would like to The debate on racism and hate crime has been requested by the Green Party. The spokesperson of the Green Party Gustav Fridolin wrote a week before the 2014 election in Svenska Dagbladet: ..................................................... Four months before the election they wrote in DN that they will never make it more difficult for people to come to Sweden. Never has the expression, never to say, never been more useful. Now the Green Party is proposing that Sweden enforce the hardest tightening up of asylum policy that we have ever seen. Fine words and good intentions are good, but they actually mean nothing if they are not followed by action. I can only speak for myself, but I wonder: How can anyone ever know what really applies when the Green Party says things? Despite what many seem to believe, crime generally decreases. The measures taken by previous governments seem to have had an effect. Many try to give a picture of the increase in violent crimes while they are mainly decreasing. However, there are a few serious exceptions. They must be taken very seriously. This is, of course, the increased number of shootings in large Swedish cities – where we stand out compared to other Nordic countries. And that's just the hate crime. In fact, hate crimes are increasing considerably. In 2014, almost 6,270 hate crimes were reported. According to Brå, it is the highest recorded level so far, and it is as much as 14 percent more than in 2013. Not surprisingly, hate crimes with xenophobic or racist motives are by far the most common type. Other studies also show that hate crimes are increasing in Sweden. That worries me and many people with me, but it also worries the UN, which in a report makes serious criticism of Swedish conditions. The UN report notes that racist parties have increased their activity in Sweden and that discriminatory statements in the political debate are not uncommon. The UN is critical of the increase in hate crimes while investigations and prosecutions of hate crimes are decreasing. An un dersökning made by Brå shows that 96% of the reported threats and violations on the Internet were closed by police or prosecutors. This is not just a question of racism, but it gives a good indication of how the judicial system is capable of dealing with this. We have to do something about that. Mr President, I would like to The Center Party wants to stop this development by building a human society that grows from below, a society where the concrete suburbs have the opportunity to develop into green oasis with influences and inspiration from all corners of the world where people move because they want to and not because they have to. Racialism has unfortunately become commonplace for too many in recent years. On the Internet and in social media, the tone towards certain groups has long passed the limit of decency. Roma and Muslims are identified as collectively guilty of the misery of any kind. Sometimes you hear that people who engage in this are rationalising their dark approaches by somehow not being immigrants in themselves you have anything against without immigration policy. It is, Mr President, a rationalisation that is easy to refute if one sees how much immigration from Norway, the United States or Germany is being problematized. No – it becomes clear that people are judged differently, not because of their actions, but because of their origin. And for this there is an uncomfortable and unpleasant word. Clear signs of an increase in racism and hate crimes are the arsons we have seen in the wake of the difficult refugee situation. Other signs that have become apparent after the terrible events in Paris are that young men with dark hair and dark eyes tell that they get eyes and comments from people they don't know. A young guy on Facebook describes how two men spit in front of his feet and insult him with a grossly derogatory name linked to his skin color. Later that same day in a grocery store, an older lady drives on him repeatedly with her shopping cart before another customer in the store intervenes. A man on the train stares him out and screams something about This is what some people live with today. Mr President, I would like to Every human being deserves to be viewed as an individual and not as a representative of a group. The Center Party wants to see a Sweden built on the basis of individual citizens. Each individual must meet as an individual and not as part of a collective. Individuals have the right to organise themselves collectively, but the individual's rights can never ever be negotiated away. The law gives individuals the right to maximum freedom, and the protection of individual rights is a cornerstone of the construction of good democracy. If we assume that it is the individual's right to avoid being called insulting complaints, to avoid being knocked down on the city because you look in a certain way or to avoid being hanged and scorned on social media because you stand up for the equal value of all people, it is our responsibility as legislator to set up a regulatory framework that takes this into consideration. Mr President, I would like to I think we do well to look at how to work successfully in other countries. Despite the terrible events in France, France has come a long way in dealing with hate crimes. They have something that they call an action plan against racism and anti-Semitism, which for example has made prejudice an aggravating factor for all types of crime and where victims of hate crime are given specialised assistance. Swedish politicians need to look around the world and dare to see that our society may not be vaccinated against racism. We must take on board the knowledge that has been tested in other countries.
i-f0e927413d116c77-587	Mr President, I would like to There is a fundamental insight that has been crucial to us in the labour movement. It is clear that we are dependent on the security of society: I am only confident if you too are safe and we can never build a future in peace and freedom if it is built on someone's freedom, whether it is about combating insecurity in the labour market or men's violence against women. Racism ranks and subordinates people and leaves some of us in insecurity and insecurity. That is why racism is not only a threat to the individual affected, but also an obstacle to our common security and a fair society. Racism and hate crimes are now directed primarily at Africans, Muslims, Jews and Roma. Racism also takes the form of discrimination in both the labour market and the housing market and in everyday life. Mr President, I would like to When Peter Mangs was arrested in November 2010, he had waged his racial war in Malmö for seven years. At least three people he had murdered, at least 17 people he had fired and injured, countless shots he had fired at apartments and buildings. He had reached his goal. He had chased terror into the city, especially among Malmöers with roots in the Middle East and Africa. He had created mistrust and insecurity. He had drawn a line between white Malmöers, who were not personally threatened, and colored who were. Yet, Mr President, his crimes were not seen as what they really were: hate crimes specifically targeted at people whom he did not see as Swedish, in order to create terror. This shows us that Sweden has a lot to learn when it comes to recognizing and prosecuting hate crimes. Since we see that relatively few reports lead to conviction, it is clear that we need to carry out a review of hate crimes, in addition to what is already being done by the government, from notification to prosecution or conviction so that we can find out where there are shortcomings and what we need to do to improve. There is an entirely new, recent report from Expo and Civil Rights Defenders, which shows precisely this. It is also clear that there is a blind spot when it comes to realizing that even white men acting alone are part of a wider context. We must admit that Sweden has its race warriors. Ausonius, Mangs and most recently Anton Lundin Pettersson are some of those. Sweden is the country in Western Europe that has the most opportunities of deadly violence with far-right foremarks. Other race warriors practice a more low-frequency violence that affects everyday life in the form of verbal attacks, scribbles, posters and extensive online hatred. It can also be physical in the form of attacks on refugees' homes, mosques and synagogues and physical violence against Africans, Roma and Muslims. Serious work against racism and hate crime is not a quick fix, but must be based on research in this area. It is about working long-term both against the ideology that exists in the fundamentals and the social conditions that exist for it to thrive. Mr President, I would like to Terror attacks, whether in the form of arsons against asylum homes in Sweden, bombings against holidaymakers' aircraft, attacks on people at concerts or murders of young political activists in summer camps, are not in themselves in a position to fundamentally overthrow our society. Instead, the common goal of all forms of terror is to create fear, to turn society upside down, to create chaos and to destroy the important trust that exists between us humans. Fascists from the extreme right and jihadists are united in several of their reactionary views but above all in this: They want us to believe that we cannot live together, side by side in peace and freedom, if we have different beliefs, origins, sexuality or political beliefs. They want to split up to bring us closer together. When jihadists recently targeted their terror at targets in Paris, the purpose was clear. As researchers Mattias Gardell have pointed out, they want to force negative counter-reactions against Muslims in order to polarise and thus increase recruitment among those affected by repression and discrimination. In a sick mirror dance we now see how the right-wing extremists are more than happy to give the jihadists exactly what they want, that is, increased hatred of Muslims and demands for measures that will punish and suspect Muslims as a group. Jimmie Åkesson's latest move on the registration of views of Muslims in Sweden is a clear example of such a reaction that the jihadists hope for. In the vacuum of fear that terror creates, fascists find nourishment to grow in each other's hatred. That is precisely why, Mr President, racism and hatred require quite different reactions from all of us who do not want to help right-wing extremists or jihadists achieve their aims. These reactions must, above all, ensure that they do not fertilise further hatred and polarisation. This I will talk more about in my next post.
i-f0e927413d116c77-603	Mr President, I would like to It has sometimes been a dark time with heinous incidents in Sweden, including the school attack in Trollhättan – the police classed as a hate crime with racist and xenophobic motives. France has suffered two major terrorist attacks directly against democracy during the year. Denmark has also been a target. Here we saw how the events in Copenhagen directly increased the tensions but also the fear of the Jewish minority in Sweden, especially those living in Malmö. Hate crime is one of the headlines of this debate. As has been mentioned before, we can see in the latest compilations from the Crime Prevention Council that hate crimes have increased significantly. There are christhophobic, Islamophobic and anti-Semitic motives, and even transgender people are particularly vulnerable. It is a type of hate crime, a type of motive, which is once again crystallizing itself, namely the xenophobic and racist motive. 136 000 people have reported that they have been subjected to hate crimes with racist motives. In Malmö, it is primarily hate crime with anti-Semitic motives that dominates. It is not only a matter for the municipal management in Malmö, it is also a matter for the whole of Swedish society. The Liberals in this House have demanded that assemblies, such as the synagogue in Malmö, be given extra protection. We have also called for a review of the Supervisory Act, and we have asked questions to the Government. This has happened after the County Administrative Board Skåne initially rejected the synagogue's request for camera surveillance for preventive purposes in the spring. The fact that the preschool was guarded in February with heavily armed police and that representatives of the synagogue had put in expensive armored glass was apparently not a sufficient reason for the County Administrative Board to grant permission to the Jewish Assembly in Malmö. After the debate I had with the Minister for the Interior in the Chamber, the County Administrative Board later changed its decision. Regardless of this, the law must be changed. Everyday racism, racism, hatred and threats have once again hit our open Sweden. Threats to EU migrants, aggressive statements and proposals against this vulnerable group have hardly helped these people. During the autumn, threats, vandalism and fire attacks against asylum homes have unfortunately dominated. There is no paragraph in the world that can make us immune to such attacks. Perhaps the most important measure, Mr President, is that in society we respect each other as individuals, try to support as much as we can without triggering the hatred that has unfortunately facilitated the xenophobic forces to destroy our open country and our democracy. It is inevitable that the proposals we put forward in Parliament and what we write and say externally in the media and in our meetings with people can of course influence development. Of course, I also have a responsibility to discuss difficult issues, tackle challenges and tell people how my party wants to solve the problems. But I also have a responsibility not to create a us and them, not to trigger people against children and adults who have fled war and terrorism. What we have seen in the autumn is very serious. It has created a fear in society and a insecurity locally where many no longer dare to accept asylum seekers and help. I'm sure most people want to help. We have seen how young and old day and night have set up in a fantastic way to give people on the run a safe place in our society. Our municipalities, civil society and state authorities have done their utmost to deal with this situation, but there are those, Mr President, who do not want to shoulder their responsibilities. There are those who are inciting, hating, encouraging and actively contributing to the cold climate that we have experienced recently. I would like to say to them that they are particularly responsible for the fact that people have been subjected, and are subjected, to hate crime and racism, that accommodation or intended accommodation for children is set on fire and that young people, women and men fleeing dictators and terrorists continue to feel persecuted in the country to which they have fled to live in peace and freedom. Mr President, I would like to The Liberals have therefore taken the initiative in the Committee of Justice to call the Head of the Security Service and the Head of the National Police to answer questions about planned fires in asylum homes and about the general security situation. That request has been somewhat delayed, but we know that they come to the Committee on Justice on Tuesday 1 December to discuss these serious issues.
i-f0e927413d116c77-614	Mr President, I would like to War, unrest, terror and harassment have led people to flee throughout history. People flee because in the eyes of dictators or terrorists they have the wrong background, practice the wrong religion, have the wrong ethnicity, are born in the wrong place and so on. The escape is about life and those you hold dearest. Now we see the most extensive flows of refugees since World War II. For us Christian Democrats, it is self-evident that we who live in a peaceful country should be able to help our neighbour, our fellow human beings, both today and tomorrow. The procedures may vary. Privately, we can engage in volunteer work, donate a penny or a larger sum to the Red Cross, Erikshjälpen or other types of organizations. As a country, we can help people here in Sweden and also on the ground in refugee camps in war zones and near-by areas of war. Basically, this is about standing up for human dignity. For us Christian Democrats, it is absolutely central. At the same time, when Sweden stands up, helps and welcomes people here, when civil society and individuals show their great, warm and impressive commitment to people in need, a few extremists respond with the opposite and spread fear. Planned and functioning accommodation for asylum seekers has been set on fire. There is much evidence that the fires have been constructed. Those who set fire, set fire, hope for a sanctuary, hope for a new home, whip up moods, not against the political agenda they consider wrong, but against people who come here from other countries. They create insecurity and they create fear among people who have left everything they own and have fled persecution and war. Mr President, I would like to Just over a month ago, a young man entered a school in Trollhättan. An indescribable drama took place. It was a terrible attack. It is difficult to even try to understand that it has taken place. The attentatsman went around the school and decided who was going to die. Those who were affected were all of foreign origin or at least looked of foreign origin. They're the ones he picked out. They are the first time something similar has happened in a school in Sweden, but this is not the first time that this type of racist act has happened in our country. At the beginning of the 1990s, the Asserman in Stockholm, many of whom have been involved earlier in the debate, was ravaged. A few years ago it was Peter Mangs in Malmö. Their chosen victims were people of foreign appearance. In recent times, Sweden has increased the level of terror preparedness. We know little about the reasons behind this, but Säpo is clear. The biggest threat to Sweden right now is violent Islamist extremism. Not least after the events in Denmark and France earlier this year, we know that something similar could also happen here in the midst of us. In Malmö there is great concern among the Jewish population. Mole and hate are spreading. During the attacks in both France and Denmark, Jews were a special target. Last week, a Jewish teacher in Marseilles was attacked by IS supporters. Mr President, I would like to They have something in common, the arsonists, the assassin in Trollhättan, the laser man, Mangs and the Islamists. They are driven by hate, and they sort people into two categories: more or less worth and more or less worth living. Human dignity is unique and inviolable, and it is only in democracies that minorities and differences have the opportunity to be respected and to live in peace. That is something we really need to protect. It is the very essence of a country like ours. But then it is not good enough that municipalities in Sweden, including Malmö, lack action plans against violent extremism. Then it is not good enough for anti-racism to exclude. And then it's not good enough to ignore hate crimes and threats. Mr President, I would like to The challenges in our country are great, not least in the areas of migration and integration. Excretion and isolation can be a breeding ground for hatred to thrive. Therefore, an active integration policy is also included in all its components in the prevention of hate crime and racism. If Sweden is to be able to be a country characterised by humanity and security, we must build a social climate that does not have its starting point in conflicts and contradictions, but in a community based on trust and trust.
i-f0e927413d116c77-627	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to thank you for the great consensus that still seems to be in this House on this issue and for the support and backing that exists for both this and the work of the previous government against hate crimes. In this context, I would just like to warn against taking the fact that the tendency to report hate crimes has increased as a sign that hate crimes are increasing, because we actually want to increase the propensity to report. That's not a good measure. There are other good measures of how hate crimes develop. I have two questions to ask. Martin Kinnunen from the Swedish Democrats says in the speaker's chair that hate crimes in Malmö are imported. On March 2, last year, Showan Shatta was attacked on the street in Malmö. He was knocked down from behind and stabbed by three men. He floated for weeks between life and death. Malmö came out as a city under, Fight, Showan! With the hope that the Showan would survive the terrible hate crime attack. Later three members of the Swedish Party were arrested for the attack. My question to Martin Kinnunen is: In what way was this an imported hate crime in Malmö? The second question I have raised, as many others have also raised, is about the attacks on refugee homes across the country. We know that some of the fires started in accommodations by mistake, so not everyone is constructed. But there are a number of planned attacks around the country. While all parties except one in the Swedish parliament distanced themselves from the attacks, while I called the police and the Migration Agency to hear what could be done to stop this, while people around the country sought their local refugee camp and helped with the guarding, you also gathered Swedish democrats around the country. But you did not gather to distance or protect refugee homes, but you gathered to lay out addresses for refugee homes. You did it in Gothenburg, you did it in Malmö and elsewhere. And your party leader was the last of all party leaders to distance themselves. My question to Mr Martin is therefore: why was it so important to publish addresses for refugee camps in the country while the detention centres were on fire instead of distancing themselves from the fires, rather than working against the fires? I would like an answer to that question. To conclude, I would like to underline what I said at the outset. There is active work to increase the clearance of hate crimes. I share Beatrice Ask's view that the clearance rate of hate crimes is too low. I hope that the work announced by the police, which was partly started during Beatrice Ask's time as Minister of Justice, will remedy this and that the clearance rate will increase. I also believe that the police must work much more actively against the groups that are victims of hate crimes precisely to increase the propensity to report. There is a gap where many groups do not really trust the police and the law enforcement authorities. The low clearance percentage is part of it; it is not worth reporting. We must also break the barriers of confidence. I would also like to take this opportunity to remind you that we have made great efforts to increase the security of the Jewish group, which has been particularly vulnerable. We had armed policemen in place, which Roger Haddad was on. We have an ongoing dialogue with the Jewish parishes about security work and between the security police and them. We have greatly increased the amount that religious congregations can seek for help in the security work.
i-f0e927413d116c77-636	Mr President, I would like to It is an interesting debate, and there are many threads to pull. When Martin Kinnunen rejects racism and then points out that it is very obvious, I would like to say that that is precisely what it is not. That's not obvious. There are many things that are obviously not obvious. Otherwise, we wouldn't have had the problem. But when Martin Kinnunen has said that, he quickly goes on to point out that it is indeed also Swedes who are exposed to racism by, as I understand it, people who are not Swedes. It is the harshing climate that Johan Hedin also addresses, which is our concern. Groups are being pitted against each other. We are not able to ensure that people have sufficient knowledge to behave civilised and arranged against each other. We allow conspiratory ideas to take hold and thus destroy open and free society. Here we must gather together and do something. Then I can agree that migration policy is sensitive precisely because it can be exploited in different situations by extreme forces than one way or the other. It is important to be careful about how to deal with issues relating to this, because what we do and what we say affects people who have extreme ideologies and who are deliberately working to take land with violence and threats. They take advantage of every opportunity. These were also inspirations in the case that Christina Höj Larsen raised. She spoke about Peter Mangs and his attacks in Malmö, which was a long political struggle from his very strange perspective. But what can also be read in the book about Peter Mangs, which is quite new, is how society's institutions get stuck in the notion that there are, of course, settlements in criminal circles. It took a long time to raise the question: Are we looking for someone who acts alone and who has racist motives? It is serious that we do not have the search light on this problem all the time. It's got to cut the bag. This is where the security police have a big responsibility. We have also felt that the security police should produce information material, including for schools, to share information about these extreme movements. Then Annika Hirvonen Falk wants some praise for the work with the department on human rights. That's a very good thing. The UN decided to set up such an institution back in 1991. We've been more supportive of it and think it's a very good idea. We Moderates, not least in the Constitutional Committee, have developed the whole thing. We do not think that we should only work with the structural national question complex and public authorities, but that such a body should also be able to address issues relating to how individuals and organisations violate the rights and freedoms of others. So we want it to be somewhat broader. However, this is an important initiative and a work that has been going on for a long time and can play a role. Nevertheless, I believe that in this, if not urgent but still important situation we are in, we must increase our skills and make it clear that there are dark forces. I also think that the autonomous movement should be mentioned. White power and Islamic extreme movements were mentioned here earlier. But the autonomous movement is also a threat. Here it is important that the security police have sufficient resources to follow and reveal what these groupings are doing, because they are feeding and vigouring this kind of hatred.
i-f0e927413d116c77-644	Mr President, I would like to There were some comments on my speech, and I will try to respond to some of them. Member Annika Hirvonen Falk stated that we have said that there are no racists in Sweden. Of course there is. No countries and people are free of it. What I put forward was that all studies show that the Swedish people are very tolerant and have a low proportion of xenophobia. That is a fact that all studies show. Member Johan Hedin of the Center Party made a clear link between criticism of immigration policy and racism. Hedin also wants to link all immigrant groups with each other – much like that there is no difference between people and that Norwegian immigration and immigration from the Middle East would affect Sweden in the same way and require the same preparedness and action. It's very strange. Member Christina Höj Larsen says that we want people to register their opinions. If so, do the University of Gothenburg and the SOM Institute do so? They ask for people's religious views. In several of their surveys you can tick in if you profess to Islam. If it is a registration of opinions, the Left Party should perhaps work to get the University of Gothenburg to stop doing that. What Jimmie Åkesson has mentioned in the media these days is just about surveys. The largest survey companies in the world work with surveys in this particular way. It's nothing weird at all. Anders Ygeman thought we were late in rejecting asylum fires. I can see that there is no doubt as to whether we think it is wrong to burn buildings. However, we think that you should be careful to go out too quickly and say that things have happened before you have facts on the table. For example, there was a fire in a mosque. I think it was in Eskilstuna. There were torch trains, and ministers spoke. However, it turned out to be a pile of clothes that had started to burn and thus a completely natural process. Therefore, we should be careful to classify all fires as landscaped. This whole address thing came up, too. Our party thinks it is wrong to go out with addresses widely. In this case, it had to do with the fact that several municipalities exceeded their powers and pushed through decisions to build facilities without having building permits and such on-site. It is undemocratic, and action must be taken against that. But it is not good to make it so broad, but you can inform those who live in these places. The responsibility of politics when it comes to work against hate crimes and racism stands on two legs. We politicians have both a responsibility for the society we are involved in building up and for how we express ourselves. We need a social climate with reduced polarisation, with respect for those who feel differently and with objectivity in the political debate. Let us not shy away from a legal and criminal debate. How can we effectively and legally access those who engage in sedition, illegal threats and slander, regardless of who is the victim and who is the perpetrator and whether the crimes are committed on the Internet or in streets and squares? It is good that this work has intensified, and I hope that we will soon see the result.
i-f0e927413d116c77-655	Mr President, I would like to Of course, we should be pleased with what is good in our country and that so many people stand up against racism and xenophobia, against aphrophobic, homophobia and other phobias against groups in society. But as politicians, we also need to see where developments are going. What we see is that xenophobic parties and racist movements have grown stronger throughout Europe in the shadow of the economic crisis. They have grown stronger by blaming cutbacks and deteriorations in the economy for the others. A cold climate in society fertilizes hatred and prejudice. Therefore, Mr President, it is important to mention the work of a Sweden that holds together and for a strong welfare where people know trust and security for each other and for the future. The government is making offensive efforts in a number of areas to make young people feel confident about the future, to make the sick feel safe and for people to get a job. Today's debate is about racism and hate crime. The Green Party chose to make hate crime a priority for the police precisely because we see that the low clearance percentage contributes to many people not having confidence in the judiciary and not reporting the crimes they are subjected to. I am therefore pleased that today there are twice as many police officers involved in investigating hate crimes. I am also pleased that the police at national level are to discuss with hate crime-prone groups, that consultation is to take place at local level with municipalities and associations, and that the work on cooperation agreements and citizens' promises is starting. Johan Hedin of the Center Party referred to asylum policy. Let me briefly respond to the criticism he made against my party. It is with great sadness that I note that politics has made a big turn. My objective is that the measures that have been taken temporarily should be lifted as soon as possible. Sweden is and will continue to be an open and solidarity-based country for all people, including those seeking protection and for all the people who live and work in our country and who are victims of hate crime and racism. Mr President, I would like to A group that is particularly vulnerable is the group of transgender persons. Although we currently have a comprehensive legal protection against hate crime in general, the Green Party believes that transgender people must be more clearly covered by the legislation.
i-f0e927413d116c77-662	Mr President, I would like to A great deal of wisdom is said in this debate, and some good ideas are being put forward. I hope we can pick them up and work together on them. I am pleased that the Green Party's Annika Hirvonen responded to my criticism. However, my criticism will probably remain until I see that there is action behind the words. I hope that the Green Party will return to being a very bright beacon when it comes to countering racism, even if, in order to use Astrid Lindgren's words, the party's asylum policy went a long way. Unfortunately, racism and hate crimes are increasing. There are real numbers on, numbers that no one misinterpreted or turned on to unrecognizable to prove a thesis. The 14% increase reported by Mr Brå is worrying, but the fact that hate crimes involving xenophobic and racist motives are by far the most common is perhaps not surprising because xenophobia and racism are supported by the highest political level and the forces that resist are becoming less and less. Jimmie Åkesson's debate article in Aftonbladet, which claimed that Muslims are our biggest foreign threat since the Second World War, other leading SD representatives' comments on the control of Muslims, that new laws should be created and that violence and murder are deeply rooted in Islamic culture, and the attempt this morning on the radio that Muslims should be mapped out on the basis of their tendency to engage in terror and other views are Islamophobia and racist. No person in Sweden should be registered for that reason. I would like to pick up the American expression of this type of racism: racism by proxy. The public discussion, the intellectual shift in which former principled defenders of openness seem to have completely lost their ground and a political climate in which the limit of decency is constantly being shifted forms an acceptable sounding bottom where unacceptable racism is being sustained and exchanged in more and more and more serious hate crimes. This development is something we should all be concerned about. It is not unknown what is happening in a society where racism and hate crime are allowed to grow. We have many examples of this, from the American South to South Africa, from Rwanda to Nazi Germany. When the upland in us and them goes on and when there are politicians who burn for discord and suspicions also increases hate crimes. To divide society into us and them goes out on us all regardless of origin, year of life or number of generations in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to I'd like to recommend a book. Author Ken Follett has written a fantastically interesting and good novel trilogy about the history of the 20th century. The second part, called the Winter of the World, is about the Second World War and the events that preceded it and the emergence of Nazism. It is extremely good for those who want to understand the driving forces of hatred. At the same time, it is deeply disturbing when it comes to the striking similarity that we see between social development then and now. To suggest that anyone who shares a culture or religion or that everyone from a country is in a certain way affects people as much as hints that the same people are as they are because of the blood. Racism is racism, although there are people who want to stretch the concepts so as not to count themselves to the racists.
i-f0e927413d116c77-671	Mr President, I would like to It is gratifying to hear that we agree that what we say and do matters. Our words and actions can either bind us together or fuel people's hatred. When SD's Kent Ekeroth on October 18 this year stood and gave a speech in Trelleborg, he hardly tried to put out any anger. On the contrary, he warned against the immigration of refugees and said: For Sweden it means our destruction. He also said to the audience: You are a spearhead to take our country back. Then he talked about the Swedes' long fuse and said: But when the fuse has burned, then it goes off! The audience included uniformed Nazis. A party which, on a daily basis, lets its representatives get worked up like this and which, in addition, lays out the addresses of the intended refugees, obviously bears a heavy responsibility for what is happening. Both police and hate crime researchers point out that this kind of hateful rhetoric is at risk of triggering. If Sweden is described as threatened and under attack there are people who may feel called to act on it – people like Ausonius, Mangs and Lundin Pettersson. But everyone else has a responsibility for what we say and what we do. We are now in the biggest refugee disaster since the Second World War. 60 million people are on the run, half of them children. Most have sought refuge from persecution and war as internally displaced persons or in their neighbours. But in such a large humanitarian disaster, some also go to Europe and to Sweden. Historically, Sweden has long handled greater reception of refugees through investments in the people who have come and in building society larger. That's why it's gone very well. We have combined solidarity with prosperity and have become a stronger and richer country. More than 120 000 people have applied for asylum with us this year. This is obviously a very big task, even for a well-organized and rich country like Sweden. In some municipalities, especially the municipalities of arrival, the situation is very strained. However, other municipalities have still hardly taken any responsibility or have the capacity to do much more. What, then, does the government choose to do and say when people on the run need us most? Do they choose to show leadership and say that effort must never allow us to abandon human rights, that we will face this with Sweden's very best sides, well-organized and in solidarity with investments in welfare and people, that the EU has failed but that we do not intend to abandon the right of asylum, but instead to hold back the membership fee until the other countries assume their responsibilities, that we should support municipalities with resources and regulatory changes so that they can meet the task, that together we should finally make the investments in housing and welfare that have been needed for so long and that we should now prioritise social secretary over bathroom renovations? No. They choose to be intimidated by words like system collapse and chaos. They put prosperity against human rights and rather close the borders of those who need protection than ease the expenditure ceiling. That, Mr President, is the opposite of leadership. And it will undoubtedly lead to some of us in society being seen as a dangerous burden that threatens welfare. It's dangerous.
i-f0e927413d116c77-679	Mr President, I would like to It is clear that the Martin Kinnunen of Sweden Democrats cannot tell the difference – this is not an integration or immigration debate or an immigration policy debate, but a debate on hate crime and racism. It is clear that the Swedish Democrats are trying to distance themselves from xenophobia and racism, but in the next sentence they say that it is not racism to oppose immigration policy or to want to reduce reception of refugees. It is you Swedish democrats, Martin Kinnunen, who choose that combination because you have problems with your argumentation, you have problems with your motives and you have problems with taking a credible and serious distance, whether it is address lists or asylum fires. You also have a responsibility in this Parliament, just like the Liberals, the Center Party and the Social Democrats, but you do not take that responsibility. Mr President, I would like to Liberals have a few points to deal with how to proceed with the debate against hate crimes. During the spring, we have received indications that we do not see that the penalty will have an impact in court decisions on hate crimes. We have asked a question to Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson, who replied that an act study is being conducted through the Swedish Public Prosecutor's Office, which hopefully will be reported in November. At the country meeting last weekend, the Liberals decided to consider reviewing the criminal code's penalty rule in order to better capture hate crime motives, for example in the case of persons with disabilities. An even clearer decision we have taken is to introduce a so-called lex Fadime and highlight the honour-related crimes within the framework of hate crime law. The Liberals have also, of course in the Alliance Government, contributed to the commission of the report submitted in March by the Police Authority. We welcome the announcement that Gothenburg will have its own hate crime group. However, when I discussed the issue with the hate crime police in Stockholm earlier this week, it emerged that there is still clear information, organisationally and resource-wise, before the functions are in place. To conclude, Mr President, it is extremely important that we continue to invest in skills and information, not just with the police and prosecutors, but with the whole chain of justice. There are also clear shortcomings in the handling of hate crime cases in district courts. It starts with a police report. Is the police asking the right questions? Is the registration clearly marked? What do you hand over to the DA? Is the prosecutor clearly familiar with hate crime motives? It is absolutely crucial when you then press charges. There are obvious shortcomings – much more needs to be done.
i-f0e927413d116c77-688	Mr President, I would like to Much has been said so far in the debate that one would like to agree with, repeat and discuss further. But let me return to anti-Semitism and the increased insecurity of the Jewish population in our country and around us. Not many of them survived the Holocaust and then found Sweden as their new home. But many of them have children and grandchildren who live here, and now they see trends and signals that worry and terrify. That is something we must take very seriously. Last year, 2014, 270 hate crimes with anti-Semitic motives were reported in Sweden. In relation to the size of the Jewish minority, there are quite a few. It is also possible to suspect that the crimes are more than that. People are afraid to report, and others may not think it is worthwhile to report and feel that the perpetrators will not be held accountable. Mr President, I would like to It has gone so far now that many Jews in both Sweden and other European countries are wondering whether they have any future in Europe at all. For some, emigrating to Israel is an option. But for me it is no alternative to quietly accept that our Jewish minority is under threat and is forced to leave. Sweden should be a safe country for everyone, including the Jews. Unfortunately, the abuse, the abuse and the silent reduction of this group are not condemned in a clear and desirable way today. From politicians to television personalities, criticism escapes when rhetoric is more or less linked to the usual anti-Semitic. Let me take a recent example, one in the line of many where Jews are reduced or ignored. When a manifestation was arranged this year on the occasion of the crystal night, the Jewish congregation was not invited. Forces that claim to be against racism and anti-Semitism have a huge responsibility. The plaques and the march halls are one thing. They're important markings. But, Mr President, the real commitment is greater and more important than placard violence. In an article in Dagens Arena, Willy Silberstein, who chairs the Swedish Committee against Anti-Semitism, puts it this way: And an anti-racism which also accepts and thus legitimises some types of racism, whatever the doctrine of hatred, is only a symptom of the problem it claims to be combating. ..................................................... Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, what Mr Silberstein is saying is highly topical. We elected representatives in this House and in other decision-making assemblies have a particular responsibility to highlight the fight against racism as a fight against all kinds of hate doctrines.
i-f0e927413d116c77-696	Mr President, I would like to It was not, Martin Kinnunen, clear with the answer. So I'll repeat the question, and I'll give you another chance. You have two minutes at your disposal. First of all, how was the hate attack on Showan Shattak in Malmö imported? I'm sorry if I missed your answer, but I didn't actually hear a syllable. Then to this with fires. I have here a list of the fires in Sweden that have been this year. There was a fire of 43 refugee camps in Sweden before Jimmie Åkesson distanced himself. It was until October 29th before Jimmie Åkesson distanced himself. Many of these attacks had been proved to be hate crimes before then, such as burning crosses in Malung. But there was no rejection. Why was it more important for Swedish democrats around the country to lay out addresses for refugee camps than to distance themselves from the fires? What signal does Martin Kinnunen think it sent, when people around the country rather than distance themselves – there were 43 fires – put out addresses? What signal does Martin Kinnunen think it sent? Why was it more important to lay out the addresses than to distance yourself from the arson fires?
i-f0e927413d116c77-700	Mr President, I would like to I can agree with that question. I can also agree, among other things, with what Andreas Carlson said about the need to combat all forms of racism. It is important to highlight the racism that confronts many Jews and the concern many Jews feel not least in Malmö. I do not have many minutes of speaking time left, so I would like to repeat the question I had for the Minister for Home Affairs. It is about the resources and work of the hate crime units, the result of the investigation that was carried out and that would strengthen the police's work against this type of serious crime, where the idea was three hate crime units, reinforcement in all police areas and doubling employment. We have the news that it is not quite finished and is in place. However, we also have statements from the chief police officer that in January you should come to the government and tell them what costs you see in front of you and the difficulties you have. The Head of State Police has said that it is about billions – in plural: it is about the expansion of the police force, which today is 20 000, with another 1 000 – 2 000 police officers. I do not know what answer the government will give. I know the Moderates have proposed an extension of 1,000 police officers. But my concern in this debate is: does this effort on the issue of resources mean that we are in danger of the strengthening of the hate crime that we have been about to lose? We would like answers to that question. There are many other things that need to be done. Some have come up in this debate. However, I believe that one important thing in the moderate programme is something that everyone shares, namely that we need to increase knowledge of hate crimes in the judiciary and in society at large and that we need to increase knowledge of the history behind the activism of the racists after all.
i-f0e927413d116c77-705	Mr President, I would like to The basis of anti-racist work must be that we do not distinguish between people and that everyone is treated with respect regardless of ethnic background, sexual preferences, etc. In working life, we will focus on competence. Unfortunately, we have a negative development in this area. We have got a concept, Rascification, which is based on giving importance to people's external attributes. We have the Multicultural Centre in Botkyrka, which the Left Party supports and to which race research has been funded. In Botkyrka, the Left Party and the Social Democrats actually want to start keeping ethnic registers in the municipality – what we are accused of wanting to do but where we have only proposed surveys that are carried out in France, among other places, which the Member Hedin has wanted as an example in this work. We have also been able to note how debaters with immigrant background who criticise Swedish immigration policy are often portrayed in public services as traitors, so-called Uncle Tom. Those who, as immigrants, should be grateful for this migration policy and not behave like any traitors, seem to be the meaning. It is a xenophobic and racist approach. There were some questions. There was a knife cut in Malmö. I do not believe that there has yet been a trial. My view is that there were political motives behind it and that it was absolutely not an imported crime but that it was Nazis who committed crimes, abominable crimes. There has been more talk about the survey that Jimmie Åkesson has proposed. Such surveys are carried out in all countries, including Sweden. But when we say that we should do a little more surveys and find out a little more information about what attitudes exist in society, then it is suddenly terrible, then it is opinion registration and ethnic registration. I think it is a very low-level debate.
i-f0e927413d116c77-710	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by thanking the majority of my colleagues who have today taken a stand against all forms of racism and hate crime. Thank you for this debate. It will take time to combat racism, and it will not be easy. But we have to decide that it can and will go. We have in Sweden a government that invests in the welfare of a Sweden that stands together, that works structured against racism and hate crime and that ensures that the resources and expertise within the police to prosecute and investigate hate crime increase. We also see how people around Sweden mobilize for the equal value of all people. There are many of us. And we work at all levels of society, from how we express ourselves to the structured work of building a society for all. It gives hope for the future and hope for a Sweden where everyone can live their lives as they want and as they are and a Sweden free from racism and discrimination. That is the goal, and we still have a lot to do.
i-f0e927413d116c77-714	Mr President, I would like to In the last few days, frankly, I've had a hard time deciding whether to be angry or sad. If for a moment I choose to trust all the good intentions presented in this debate, we may still find the spark of hope. Perhaps we sometimes need to subdue immediate strong feelings and raise our eyes and look a little longer. Hatred crime is the beginning of something that can change a country into unrecognizable in a short time. It affects all people who, for example, because of their ethnicity, nationality, race, religion or sexual orientation, can be said to belong to a particular group. By changing the definition of hate crime so that transgender people are included, we show that we do not accept hate crimes against any group. Unfortunately, there are still too many people who believe that some people are less worthy and that for that reason they are tempted to commit crimes against them. To divide the human race into us and them is not only stupid; it is man's greatest threat to humanity. Racism creates a hatred that is hard to understand for those of us who do not feel it. This hatred is created by the belief that we are not all worth as much. Some line up endlessly on the surface intellectually sustainable arguments for why we all feel better by being kept apart, or even try to imagine that that is not at all what they are saying. Some days it is especially difficult for me as a politician to resist and not let the darkness take over. Then it is good to take great thinkers to help. Martin Luther King once said: Darkness cannot drive away darkness, only light can. Hate cannot drive hate away, only love can do so.
i-f0e927413d116c77-719	Mr President, I would like to There's no shortage of things to deal with. We have already lost quite a lot of important time. We need to tackle both the work against racism and hate crime. There is much to do when it comes to combining the ideological part and the social conditions. But we also need to work more with reception. While we're standing here talking, there's a lot of people out in the country trying to solve things. Some municipalities have found good ways to recruit teachers to the school directly from SFI. In some, Swedish has been fixed for parental leave. Others seek to create their own labour market training courses that suit local needs. It is time to support and focus on this work. Let us triple the number of municipalities of arrival and make sure that all the municipalities really take their responsibilities! There are still far too many rich municipalities that take hardly any responsibility and still whine the most. Let's develop accommodations, both in the short and long term. In Bromölla, the municipality has developed 200 places that are still not used, despite the fact that asylum seekers have been allowed to sleep out in Malmö. There are quite a few such examples. Every third member of the LRF is prepared to receive refugees. Since the Migration Agency only procures more than 30 places at a time, I think we have to let the municipalities be responsible for finding fewer places and that it would increase capacity. No, this isn't a system collapse. It is at most a slump in political leadership. What is happening now risks hitting not only those we are now turning our backs on, but also, indeed, the open and secure society that we have been talking about here today. With this, the risk of increased racism and hatred is also quite obvious. I think we should put this kind of rhetoric behind us and tackle the practical challenges that exist.
i-f0e927413d116c77-725	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to thank the Greens for the initiative for this debate. We know that, just over a year and a half ago, the then alliance government commissioned a major study from the Living History Forum. In it, more than 4,700 youths had to like attitudes toward Roma, Jews, Muslims, and homosexuals. The report is called The Multiplicity Intolerance. Already there we could see that there is a great challenge even when it comes to young people in our schools in Sweden. It is a more positive view of homosexuals, but still a major challenge in terms of anti-Gypsyism and views and attitudes towards Muslims. Mr President, I would like to That is why we politicians have a very great responsibility when we talk about different types of conflict. It can be about foreign policy conflicts and how we deal with, for example, the issue of terrorism. It is important to distinguish between violent Islamist extremism and those who profess Islam and are Muslims. At least it is a party that deliberately does not want to clarify the difference. We from the Liberals also think that it is important that the reorganisation of the police really is good, as we have already emphasised, not only in Gothenburg but also in Malmö, which has a great deal of concern about these issues. We have also heard in this debate that there is a certain party – their representative is unfortunately not left in this House – who does not want to distance themselves from this by asking people to different things on websites and informing them about the addresses of asylum accommodations and so on. All in all, we want to distance ourselves from this.
i-f0e927413d116c77-730	Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to thank you for the debate we have had today. It has once again demonstrated the importance of active work against racism and hate crime. For us Christian Democrats, it is crucial to highlight human dignity issues in the policy we pursue, and when we talk about hate crime and racism, human dignity is at the heart of it. In this House, we often have different views on how to solve contemporary challenges, but we must stand united against racism, hate crime and a society in which people are sorted into categories of people worthy of living and not worthy of living. I refuse to hand over such a society to the next generation, and we must stand together against the forces driving in that direction. Mr President, I would like to Working against racism and all kinds of hate crimes is to stand up for the unique and inviolable human dignity.
i-f0e927413d116c77-733	Mr President, I would like to We can well note that the Swedish Democrats are fleeing not only from my questions but also from the parliament's chamber. I am sincerely sorry that the Swedish Democrats are not taking the opportunity to distance themselves from the fires more clearly. This makes it difficult to take Sweden's second assurances seriously. It's hard to take Martin Kinnunen seriously when he says he doesn't want to make a difference to people and then calls hate crimes in Malmö. The messages don't exactly make sense. Beatrice Ask asked me a question about the resources for the hate crime units and their abilities. They have received a reinforcement; today, twice as many people are investigating hate crimes as it was a year ago. Having said that, the strain the Swedish police now face is, of course, in danger of affecting virtually all police activities. We have the highest terrorist threat since the introduction of the terrorist scale, and we have for the first time since Sweden's entry into the EU in 1994 introduced internal border controls. They consume a lot of police resources. Unfortunately, I do not believe that there is currently any alternative to doing these controls, as we do with the work against terrorism as a justification. I therefore believe that we will have to come back to the House and discuss how we can improve police resources. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Green Party for initiating this debate, and I would like to thank the Left Party and the four bourgeois parties for their constructive contribution to the fight against hate crimes.
