i-5e3bd0fc8115d6d4-4	Mr President, I would like to Energy is crucial for both households and businesses. As a private person, we take it a little too naturally if we are to charge our phone, light a lamp or start a television set. Of course, we assume that electricity will always be there without exception and without interruption. In the same way, it is for companies. It is perhaps even more important if we talk about companies that exist in electricity and energy-intensive parts of the Swedish industry. There, a short break of just a fraction of a second can cause incredible problems. It can stop an entire factory and generate costs of millions to discard or discard goods that have broken or simply to get production started again. Mr President, I would like to Households and businesses should be able to count on having a very secure energy supply. It should be done at reasonable prices and, of course, with as little environmental impact as possible. Historically, we in Sweden have done well. We have had competitive prices and a high level of security of supply. Unlike most countries, Sweden has had electricity production that is almost carbon-free. Mr President, I would like to Here and now in Sweden today we manage the Swedish electricity and energy system in a good way. We can meet the need for both electricity and energy. However, there will be a number of major challenges for Sweden in the long term. How are we going to cope with the impact balance in a number of years' time? The current low electricity prices mean that all investments are actually pushed away. No one invests in anything new, even with subsidies. How, then, will the necessary investments be made in the long term? There are a number of slightly bigger challenges for Sweden in the energy sector. It is important to see today's debate, discussion and decision in that context. In the same way, it is important that today's discussion on energy policy is brought into a context with the slightly bigger challenges for Sweden. There is an emerging alienation that strikes young and foreign born. But perhaps an even more important link with energy policy is the conditions for companies and industrial activities. It may sound lofty if we talk about globalisation, competition and such things. But basically every company in Sweden is challenged every day by a competitor who may be in the same city, some other part of Sweden or very often in another country in another part of the world. If Sweden is to be the company and industrial country in the future, concrete action and political leadership will be required. This requires doing things that provide good conditions for transport, quality in education and active trade policy, but also a very secure energy supply is an important part of this. Mr President, I would like to We can see that we have a government with S and MPs that talks a lot about industry. The problem is that in concrete action they do things that greatly endanger the industrial country of Sweden. We can see that when you make transport more difficult and expensive. We can see a lack of clarity in trade policy and a sharp increase in taxes on labour and entrepreneurship. We can also see that they lack a plan for energy policy and security of energy supply. Mr President, I would like to It is a little remarkable that the government is now making changes in the short run that lead to very big changes in the long term. This happens at the same time as there is an Energy Commission, a government investigation. The ambition with it is to sit down together between the parties and see: Is there a basis for reaching a broader agreement? It is a good mission and is natural because a broader agreement is better than a narrower one. Nevertheless, it is remarkable that the government chooses to take decisions alongside the Commission. It is also remarkable that the Commission's work is relatively limited. Let's say it's study trips and seminars. However, the Commission has not yet entered into any real substantive discussion on what are the really big energy challenges for Sweden. It is worrying that we have a government that does not take political leadership. Today, the Riksdag will decide on the Government's proposal to subsidise more renewable energy. The Moderates will today vote against that proposal, and we do so for three reasons. The first is that a number of years ago the Riksdag decided on a comprehensive climate and energy policy. It was a big package that contained a series of different things. These were, for example, instruments and taxes in different ways. It was about the direction of different types of energy such as the view of hydropower and nuclear power. It also contained a very high ambition to support new renewable energy in a system together with Norway with 26,4 terawatt hours until 2020. At that time, a comprehensive, long-term package was adopted all the way up to 2020 with very high ambitions for the important new renewable energy, but also a long-term one that is very often what different actors are asking for. It could be energy companies, investors or customers. It is then natural to stick to the long-term decision taken by the Riksdag. No one benefits from the twitchiness and uncertainty caused by the government's submission of a proposal which has since been drawn back and that uncertainty prevails as to what should apply. The second reason is that the government, with a combination of subsidising more new renewable energy and a substantial increase in nuclear tax, quite substantially changes the rules of the Swedish energy market in an unwise way. The government then jeopardises the security of energy supply. Energy supply is being put at risk without actually having a plan for long-term energy policy. The third reason for us is that today we have historically low electricity prices. We can look at the investment conditions. If you read it, you can see that it is about that almost no one invests in any new power even if they receive a high subsidy. This means, in practice, that if subsidies are increased, everything else is equal, electricity prices are pushed down further without there actually being any demand on the market in that perspective. Mr President, I would like to Instead, the reasonable thing should be to stick to the long-term decision taken by the Riksdag, which provides a very high increase in ambition until 2020 in renewable energy without jeopardising the security of energy supply in Sweden in the way that the government is now doing. That is why I shall be in favour of reservation 1. If Sweden is to live up to the words of the solemn speeches about things like industry and competitiveness, political action and political leadership are required. It is true that taking unilateral decisions, as the government is now doing, which jeopardise the security of energy supply, is an act. But I do not think it is to show sound political leadership in relation to the major challenges that Sweden faces both as a whole and in terms of energy policy.
i-5e3bd0fc8115d6d4-22	Mr President, I would like to Today, the Trade and Industry Committee's offensive No. 6 Ambition increases for renewable electricity and control stations for the electricity certification system in 2015 and the Government proposal on this. I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation 2 in the report. At the same time, I would like to make it clear that, should our reservation fall into the preliminary vote under paragraph 1, we will support reservation 1 as it also includes the endorsement of our follow-up motion in the report. The electricity certification system is a support system designed to stimulate so-called renewable energy sources. Since its introduction in 2003, the system has contributed a number of positive effects. Especially with regard to newly established base power in the power system, hydropower has been introduced and power stations upgraded, combined heat and power plants have been installed and turbines have been installed from previous district heating plants. But in recent years it has become more and more a matter of subsidies to weather-dependent power plants, mainly wind power. Of the electricity certificates issued during the initial years, approximately 90 per cent went to power generation that is planned and therefore not dependent on weather conditions to deliver power. This is a level which has gradually fallen year after year and which in the previous year amounted to only 36 per cent. Instead, two out of three issued electricity certificates now go to wind power. It's gonna roll on and become more. As regards the increase in ambition in the electricity certification system, the Government proposal states that many consultation bodies support it. Without an uncritical review, it can give the reader a sense of some weight in the government's proposal in the bill. But when you read more about which referral bodies support the proposal, you can see that it is the Swedish Wind Power Association, Vaasa Vind, Svensk Vindenergi, Vestas, HSB, the Swedish Wood Fuel Association and Skellefteå Kraft. It is therefore the parties who are the main beneficiaries of these subsidies and who believe that it is a good proposal to receive even more subsidies. Perhaps that should not surprise very many at all. At the same time, the list of actors who are directly negative and critical of the Government's proposal is clear. There you can find the Institute of Economics, Centre for Environmental and Natural Resources Economics, Property Owners, Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, SKGS, which is the base industry's energy cooperation, Swedish Energy, Energy Norway, Swedish District Heating, Forest Industries, Energigas Sweden, Svebio, Statkraft, Svenska Elnätsuppregeret, Bergen Energi Green Services and Svensk Elbrukarförening. The list of critical referrals can hardly be ignored and should call for some reflection. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish democrats' starting point for the electricity certification system is that it should be phased out in its current form and that the long-term ambition in the energy policy area is that all forms of market-distorting subsidies should be phased out in order to strive for technology-neutral competition in the electricity market. For many of the installations that have now been constructed using the electricity certification system, it is a fact that they lack a basis for being able to bear their own costs in the current market situation. The creation of many of them is entirely dependent on political instruments and continued subsidies that we are debating here today. Its creation has created an oversupply in the liberalised electricity market, for which there has been a complete lack of demand, which has now gone so far as to result in subsidies and aid schemes leading to a self-suffering electricity market, where the profitability of investments and renovations of existing production facilities is difficult. The so-called renewables are also affected by this, and we have already seen wind farms being dismantled prematurely, as subsidies are no longer sufficient or being left out of the electricity certification system. The basic problem with this and other support schemes is that it distorts competition and, above all, stimulates intermittent forms of energy that do not necessarily deliver power when demand exists. Ultimately, it will be very difficult to understand the political point of stimulating investments in plants that the market does not demand and which overturn the calculations throughout the power system. The point is also that most of the so-called renewable electricity generation that is now added to the electricity certification system is of a weather sensitive nature, which requires both the operation of the electricity grid and the need for regulatory and replacement power both over the day and on an annual basis. Mr President, I would like to There is a certain irony in the government's behaviour towards the liberalised electricity market to be governed by market mechanisms. As I mentioned earlier, the electricity certification system has helped to increase supply in the market, which has not surprisingly led to lower market prices at the moment according to all the rules of art. But when the market, i.e. the power generators, closes production units in order to raise market prices in order to be able to sell their investments in the future, the government now wants to respond by compensating for this reduction in supply with a further increase in supply. The government's response to a functioning market function will be to take more of the same medicine that created the problem from the beginning. It is also precisely the ability to have a planned power generation for renewable electricity generation that is required to replace it for the Swedish industry as important basic power. In this respect, solar and wind power simply do not constitute an alternative to nuclear or hydroelectric power in this area. The current signals about the early closure of nuclear power plants are extremely worrying, at least for the Swedish Democrats. These facilities, which, because of the political means, no longer have a commercial basis for operating, are strategically important for Sweden's power system. The decisions announced so far risk forcing Sweden into a situation where there is a lack of effect during the coldest winter days and during the winter months. We will probably also hear in this debate several representatives talk more about terawatt hours and energy and much less about the need for power in megawatts after these forthcoming closures. The consequences of climate policy are also at risk of being extremely remarkable, given that Swedish electricity production, which mainly consists of nuclear and hydro power, is already almost free of carbon dioxide emissions. Paradoxically, the impact of the policy instruments can lead to increased emissions as a result of greater demands on natural resources and an increasing need to expand the Swedish power grid in order to exploit all the scattered solar and wind power production that the government parties want to develop. Additional consequences could be increased operating times on our oil condensate power plants in the power reserve and imports of coal power to meet the power requirement cold winter days. Mr President, I would like to If we want to move towards a functioning electricity market, we need to clean up the market from anti-competitive aid. The electricity certification system should therefore be phased out by not allocating new investments to electricity certificates. A start is to reject here in the Riksdag the Government's proposal to raise the level of ambition in the electricity certification system.
i-5e3bd0fc8115d6d4-34	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to say that we in the Center Party are, of course, behind our reservation, but for time we choose to refrain from calling for its approval. The Center Party wants an electricity system and an energy system that consists of 100 percent renewable. The electricity is an important part of it. Nor should we forget, for example, fuel and heating. You like to put the equality between energy and electricity, but really electricity is just a type of energy carrier. It is above all electricity that we are going to talk about today. The electricity certificates and the increase in ambition that the government is now presenting are in many ways good. The electrical certificates have been delivered. At a low cost to the consumer, we have received a large share of renewable energy. We also see how wind power has increased tenfold during the time of the alliance government. Even if it is now beginning to go towards a stop in the system, it has come very good out of this. This is also one reason why the electricity certification system needs to be adjusted. We need to adjust to the quotas that have already been decided, and the increase in ambition that is now being implemented in the Center Party is a good thing. We went to elections to increase the ambition increases in the electricity certification system, and we are now in and fulfilling that. There are also more adjustments that would need to be made to the electricity certification system. This bill is a small step along the way, but I expect in the control station that is now being brought forward to 2017, which is good, that you also look at such things as transparency and information so that you can better see which projects are funded and not only intended to create better conditions in the market so that you can also reduce the financial risk. I would also like to highlight, to go from the positive to the more critical approach, the points made by the other alliance parties in their reservation. It's a matter for this government to be a little careful. We think this is a good initiative. It needs to be handled now. We had a control station until 2015. It will of course be implemented in 2015. However, we need to be a little careful about our own initiatives, given that we have an Energy Commission where we want a broad, cross-block agreement. For example, we will have to deal with how the electricity licensing system will be after 2020 quite soon. It is reasonable that this should be done within the framework of the Energy Commission and perhaps in a fast track so that it does not drag on any further. We also want to create clearer rules for the market. How we do with the electricity licensing system after 2020 will definitely affect the electricity system forward, from 2025 onwards. A call from the Center Party to the government is to bear in mind that it is important to have cross-block, wide-ranging talks if you really want cross-block agreements. This bill contained more things this spring. It also contained an agreement with Norway that the Center Party said no to. We said no because it meant taxing renewable energy used for our own use. It's real to us. We don't want wood tax. And we don't want you to treasure when you bake your own bread. Anyone who puts solar panels on their roof, the company that makes the big investment to reduce their energy consumption, should not be penalised with tax. Anyone who inserts triple-glazed windows or isolates better will not be punished with tax. On the net, this is an energy efficiency improvement. That is what the government now chooses to tax. I understand that the government needs to have taxes in many different ways for the budget, given the increase in expenditure. But this is the wrong place to pick up those treasures from. It is better to invest in environmental taxes that steer away from things that are bad and not from things that are good. The agreement that was signed was bad from the beginning. In addition, it has now made it even worse by ensuring that it applies not only per plant but also per legal person. There is every reason for the government to think again. The government has chosen to include this in its budget. The Center Party is clear that it is voting on its own budget and that the budget is taken as a whole. We can only regret that the government has chosen to do so in this incredibly bad way. We will therefore be voting in favour of the increase in ambition. But we do it with a bit of bitter aftertaste because the government has chosen to do it this way. If you look at the Center Party's budget, however, you can see which party is investing most in renewable energy. It's not just about money. It is important to bear in mind that it is not a question of the fact that the one who has the most money also has the best policy, even if our budget goes further economically than the government. As far as we are concerned, we are talking about the abolition of VAT registration for micro-producers. It is about more people being able to take part in the support that exists, that we feed the gender to the solar cell support considerably faster, that we invest in energy stocks and much more. But I guess we will be taking that debate when we talk about the budget. For us – and I also believe for those who read budgets as well as these documents – it is clear which party stands up for renewable energy all the way and not just individual parts. It's the Center Party.
i-5e3bd0fc8115d6d4-49	Mr President, I would like to Rickard Nordin brought up some of what I was going to ask about. The increase in ambition in electricity certificates' ystemet is also regulated in a bilateral agreement with Norway. That agreement is not being dealt with at the same time as this report, as was proposed earlier this spring. The Center Party has had high tails around these proposals. They have strongly criticised the content of the draft agreement with Norway. Last spring, Rickard Nordin's call for the agreement was: Redo! Do the right thing! The Center Party couldn't agree to it then. Their party leaders have also said that they will do everything in their power to stop the government's proposals. The question then is how the Center Party will stand up to the agreement when the Riksdag will deal with it. The Center Party should be able to declare that here today. I wonder if they will be as clear as last spring that they still believe that what applies is: Redo! Do the right thing! Or will the Center Party say yes to the agreement and help introduce what they have previously called solar tax into an agreement with Norway. A subsequent removal of such an agreement would in such cases require a decision in the Storting too. The question I would like to put to Rickard Nordin should be answered by yes or no. Will the Center Party support the agreement with Norway?
i-5e3bd0fc8115d6d4-54	Mr President, I would like to Mattias Bäckström Johansson knows that this is in the government's budget. This is not an individual matter at Parliament's table. We have made it clear that we take responsibility for our budget. We in the Center Party will vote for our budget. We don't do breakouts. We follow the practice that has been developed for many years and where the Center Party has been instrumental in developing a budgetary policy framework. We'll follow that. We are voting on our budget. There's no solar treasure there. There is no agreement with Norway, from that point of view. How the government has chosen to do this is up to the government. The budget is taken as a whole.
i-5e3bd0fc8115d6d4-58	Mr President, I would like to Everything depends on how you choose to interpret it. The Swedish Democrats find it difficult to see that the agreement with Norway should be considered a budgetary issue. We will lift it out so that it is possible to take a position on the agreement with Norway. With the previous logic of the Center Party, it is in such cases yes or no to solar tax and whether we should tie up that solar tax in relation to other countries. I didn't get a yes or no in answer to the question. But one consequence of the Center Party's action is that in such cases the solar tax is entered into an agreement with Norway and that it is said yes to it. I can't interpret it any other way. Rickard Nordin will be happy to clarify that further.
i-5e3bd0fc8115d6d4-60	Mr President, I would like to It is exciting that the Swedish Democrats for the first time, as far as I know, are obviously in favour of removing the solar tax. That's what Mattias Bäckström Johansson stands here and says when he tries to lure me into saying that we should remove it. Is that tax rate not included in your draft budget, Mattias Bäckström Johansson? I don't know. Have you removed the tax on renewable electricity production for your own use in your draft budget? Otherwise, it's just hollow argumentation here. It's very clear to me. The government has chosen to include it in the budget. It is also a tax, just as Mattias Bäckström Johansson says. It's a budget impact. Then we follow the practice that we have always stood up for in the Swedish parliament. We take responsibility for our budget. The government takes responsibility for its budget. We will vote on our budget. We are not voting on someone else's budget.
i-5e3bd0fc8115d6d4-63	Mr President, I would like to I agree with Helmered that it is clear that everyone in Sweden wants to be able to light when it is dark. Then it should shine because the sun does not shine. So we have a dilemma. We are going to debate the Enterprise Committee's report 6 Ambition increase for renewable electricity and control station for the electricity certification system in 2015. In the 2015 budget bill, the government stated that Sweden will eventually have an energy system based on 100 percent renewable energy. Here I and the Left Party fully support the Government's ambitions. The government also indicated that renewable electricity production should be further expanded. The target shall be at least 30 terawatt hours of electricity from renewable sources by 2020, replacing the current target. And a goal by 2030 will be developed. In addition, the Government indicated that the electricity certification system should be used to achieve this objective. In January 2015, the Swedish Energy Agency was commissioned to report the adjustments to the quota curve needed to enable the Government's ambition increase and its consequences. The assignment was presented in February 2015 in the report Financing 30 TWh of new renewable electricity by 2020. The Ministry of the Environment and Energy has proposed an amendment to the Electricity Certificates Act (2011:12) in the Ministry's Ambition Report within the electricity certification system until 2020. The change means that the quota curve is adapted to enable the Government's ambition to increase. The basis for such a quota adjustment has been developed by the Swedish Energy Agency. The Government has followed the Swedish Energy Agency's proposal and proposes the changes necessary to raise the ambitions of the electricity certification system. At the same time, Norway and Sweden have agreed on a new agreement regarding the objectives of the electricity licensing market. What feels good about the electricity certification system is that it is technology neutral as long as it is renewable. Many say that it is only a matter of sun and wind, but that is not the case. You should remember that when you debate this issue. I got the honour to follow the Energy Commission to Germany and learn about, among other things, Energiewende, Germany's choice of energy policy and what is good and less good in the way of, for example, financing the transition to renewables. Without setting values on how they had chosen to work with the issue and in what order, I can only note that German electricity consumers pay about 50 øre per kilowatt hour for the transition to renewables. We electricity consumers in Sweden pay just under three cents. The electricity certification system is therefore cost-effective, we must remember that. It was the information that I received and the reflections that I made during my visit to Germany. Here we in the Left Party agree with the government and therefore ask for the approval of paragraph 1 of the bill 2014/ 15:123 on a mbition increase for renewable electricity and control station. What we do not agree with the government, however, is what will fall out at the next control station. When it comes to the allocation of electricity certificates after 2020 and new targets, the government wants to analyse these question marks, and that is a good thing. But here I and the Left Party want the government to come back with proposals on how to phase out peat from the electricity certification system and to investigate how the electricity-intensive industry would be affected if it were to be included in the quota system. That is why I and the Left Party are in favour of paragraph 2 of the bill, some of the other issues that it is called for in the text. That is why I would like to vote in favour of Amendment No 4. I just want to agree that I and the Left Party are concerned that there is a basic industry in this country so that we can manage. Today, however, I do not see the fears that are being painted. We have a surplus of electricity. It's spent a few hours. We have agreed that we should keep the power reserve, so I do not share those concerns. This is one way to work on these issues. That is why we think it is worth continuing. It is not the best timing now given the low electricity prices, which means that no one wants to invest. I understand that.
i-5e3bd0fc8115d6d4-74	Mr President, I would like to Birger Lahti has a background in the forest industry, so I thought I'd bring up a small angle with the forest industry, electricity certificates and energy policy. The Left Party has previously proposed, among other things, a truck's tax which I believe would hit the forest industry. A previous report here in Parliament has not advocated longer lorries but, on the contrary, shorter truck transport, something that goes against the industry's view. The Left Party has been in favour of the increase in the nuclear tax and is now advocating more support for renewable energy despite the fact that many of the important representatives of the important forest industry are against the proposal. They feel that it is not necessary and that it would hit the forest industry. Mr President, I would like to I would therefore like to ask Birger Lahti a question: how will it be better for the important forest industry if, as the Left Party wants not only lorry tax, shorter trucks, nuclear tax, but now also more support for renewables, even though the industry's representatives do not want it?
i-5e3bd0fc8115d6d4-78	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr Lars, for the supplementary questions. First of all, I do not understand how the truck tax relates to the electricity certification system, but I will answer the question. First of all, the Left Party has not set its foot on how to work on the 74-tons issue. We are investigating the issue, and there are a lot of benefits to it. As far as the CO2 tax on fuel is concerned, I realise that it is wrong with some industries. But it is an agreement that is included in the budget, so we stand by it. Then I hope that the industrial parts to which it goes wrong can be compensated. But I agree that not everything is successful. With regard to transport, I want to look at solutions that make it more effective for the forestry industry. On energy issues, the forestry industry, if any, has the opportunity to develop into part of the solution to basic power. Look at how Tracks in Yorkshire, UK, works with processed forest products as part of the base power. I hope we can look at those questions.
i-5e3bd0fc8115d6d4-83	Mr President, I would like to At first sight, it may seem a bit far-fetched to talk about electricity certificates and renewables while lifting in the forest industry. But in the end it is a little bit about this in some way. We want Sweden to be a company and industrial country. In the festive speech we talk about competitiveness and opportunities for Sweden. Then it's a lot about a single package. Then you have to look at the conditions for transport, for taxes, for skills and for energy supply. Those operating in the important forest industry and in that industry on a daily basis find it a bad proposal to introduce a combination of a substantial increase in nuclear tax and additional support for renewable energy when there is no demand. Then it becomes problematic for both Birger Lahti and S and MP together with uncertainty about what the government wants with the important issue of the length of trucks that is crucial for the competitiveness of that industry and with truck tax that only hits the industry and the Swedish countryside, yes, then it hits Sweden as a company and industrial country. That is why I would like to highlight this issue, Mr President. Then we come back to this: what does Birger Lahti say to the industry's representatives? Does he mean that it is wrong to say that the combination of nuclear tax and more subsidies for renewables is bad?
i-5e3bd0fc8115d6d4-88	Mr President, I would like to As I said, the investigation into heavy and long shipments is not complete, so we'll see where it lands. I understand the forestry industry's view on this. The easy way is to do as it is today, not to do anything or to say that this is just going to be bad. But I can see benefits if we work with renewables. We can use forest fuel in the conversion, so I see benefits for the forest industry. Of course, taxes on the industry. I will push for the question of the forestry community and those affected to receive some form of compensation when there are no other alternatives. I stand up for the proposals in the budget, and I will work for the forestry industry to benefit from the transition. Actually, I think it can.
i-5e3bd0fc8115d6d4-92	Mr President, I would like to Let me now be very clear from the very first sentence of my speech. The question of the climate is the greatest challenge of our time, and for us liberals it is at the forefront of the energy policy debate. In Sweden we are fortunate. Our electricity generation is almost completely carbon-free. Many countries are very close to us that have only come half way compared to where we are today and that are jealous of us and that need our help. They struggle to get where we in Sweden have come. Our task must be to safeguard and make use of the head start that we have while helping others to go further. Thanks to hydroelectric power and nuclear power as a solid pillar of our electricity mix, Sweden has been able to build and maintain an impressive export industry that is competitive on the international market, despite our geographical location and that we have a very high level of prosperity in the country. As long as we have a surplus of CO2-free electricity, Sweden can also export to countries with higher electricity prices and which have more carbon dioxide emissions in their production or are dependent on energy imports from undemocratic states. The Liberals want to protect and secure our favourable Swedish conditions. This is extremely important in a long-term energy policy. Mr President, I would like to The Government has stated that Sweden should have 100 percent renewable electricity production. On behalf of the People's Party, we want to see a focus on 100% security of supply, 100% carbon dioxide-free and 100% stable delivery. We must make sure that at every time of day every day of the year we have electricity at competitive prices and have climate-proof production. As far as energy production is concerned, the concept of 24:7 applies in real earnest. It is in this production that it applies, every second 365 days a year. In 2009, the Parliament decided on a comprehensive climate and energy policy based on three legs: the protection of hydropower, the extension of renewable energy and the replacement of nuclear power with new reactors. Renewable energy is a very important component of this. During the Alliance production also increased considerably in Sweden. The current renewable targets of the electricity licensing system are ambitious and should focus on achieving those targets. The fact that at a time when electricity prices are historically low and parts of Swedish nuclear power are punished out of the system further raise the ambitions for renewables, as the bill proposes, is, in our opinion, socio-economic waste, not to say pure capital destruction. We therefore believe that the current increase in ambition within the electricity certification system should be maintained and that the existing agreement with Norway should be completed. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish People's Party believes that long-term and comprehensive energy policy decisions should be dealt with in the Energy Commission. Everything else is to bypass the Commission's aim and the agreements that have been made and to break the promise of the cross-block talks on energy that we all agreed on. In conclusion, we believe that the Riksdag should reject the Government's proposal to raise the level of ambition in the electricity certification system and instead approve what is stated in motion 2014/ 15:3102 by the Moderates, the People's Party and the Christian Democrats.
i-5e3bd0fc8115d6d4-100	Mr President, I would like to Swedish electricity production is currently 97 percent carbon neutral. About 50% of renewable energy is in the form of hydroelectric power, wind power, solar power, thermal power and biofuels. We can be proud of Sweden as a pioneer in this matter. Sweden is one of the countries in Europe with the lowest share of fossil fuels at all in its electricity production. The agreement reached by the Alliance in 2009 forms the basis of the energy and climate policy we have. The agreement is based on three legs: more renewable energy, the protection of hydropower and the possibility of replacing existing nuclear reactors. It is clear that, as Christian Democrats, we believe that investments in renewable electricity production are necessary and important in order to eventually achieve an energy system of 100% renewable energy. As previous speakers have pointed out, it would of course be best if we had been able to raise this issue in the Energy Commission's ongoing talks. Now we stand where we stand, but I look forward to us eventually finding out what happens after what we decide today about the electricity certification system. In the long term, we, as a party, believe that this issue of subsidies, certificates and whatever it may be called must be directed towards the introduction of new technologies, not to maintain indefinitely already developed or in any way already completed technologies. That is why it is clear that we need to have a discussion in the Energy Commission on what a degression of subsidies for electricity generation should look like after 2020. In general terms, it must nevertheless be considered that subsidies should be redirected from the electricity sector to those sectors with the highest climate emissions. For Sweden, this is primarily about efforts to reduce emissions in the transport sector. There is also a discussion about the peat's place in the electricity certification system. Should you count peat as a fossil fuel, as is done in the EU context – the UN has also talked about this – or should we continue to have it in the certification system? We can look at everything within this system at all, and eventually I hope that we in the Commission can ask ourselves whether all parts should look like they do. Today we have to make a decision about this with the control station 2015. One question we can ask ourselves is whether it is important to have more frequent control stations just when you get started and to maintain a system of certificates or whatever it may be. Is it not true that we should perhaps look at this more closely, given that we have a rapid development of technology? Not least, we have to take into account the currently incredibly low electricity prices for all types of energy. There's nothing profitable right now in this business. Then the question is whether we should subsidise some more and others less. We are also seeing the effects on nuclear power now. Here the alliance agreement has not been upheld by the new government. We have a decline in nuclear energy, not any development. We don't even invest anything in keeping the reactors we have. Surely that is an issue we can reflect on until we have achieved the 100% renewable targets. What do we do until then? I do not think we can maintain this type of certification system or similar subsidies. Having said that, Mr President, I support the motion of the Christian Democrats, the Moderates and the People's Party.
i-5e3bd0fc8115d6d4-109	Mr President, I would like to I naturally support the proposal in the report and reject all motions. Our energy policy is based on three foundations: security of supply, competitiveness and low impact on the environment and climate. Jobs and welfare in Sweden depend on a good and reliable supply of electricity at competitive prices. Our ability to cope with the climate and the environment depends on us changing to a more sustainable energy system. This transition is in turn a prerequisite for our competitiveness and our ability to develop and retain welfare and jobs in Sweden. Our starting position is good. Sweden has better conditions than most to expand renewable energy through our good access to water, wind and forest. That is why we also have a good chance of meeting, in the long term, the ambition of the cooperation government of 100% renewable energy. Sweden should be a pioneer country and demonstrate that clear climate and energy policy objectives together with concrete instruments provide long-term stable conditions for a quick way out of the fossil society. The current government has higher ambitions in terms of renewable energy than the previous one. The Government's ambition increase means that Sweden will finance an extension of 30 terawatt hours of new renewable electricity generation by 2020 compared to 2002. That is why we now have the Government's proposal for an increase in the ambition of the electricity certification system on the table. The increase in ambition is carried out in conjunction with the adjustment of the quota curve due to the control station 2015. The electrical certification system, which was initially introduced by the Social Democrats, the Center Party and the Left Party, has proved to be working well. With the success of the system in terms of increased renewable energy, more parties have seen the benefits of the system over time, and now there is broad support for the system as such. I welcome that. In comparison with many other support schemes for renewable energy in our environment, our system has been exemplary in terms of cost-effectiveness and technology neutrality. Sweden, for example, is the country that installed the most wind power after Germany and the UK last year, despite significantly lower aid levels. In other words, Swedish consumers and households pay a little for renewable kilowatt hours compared to the rest of Europe. But of course, no system is perfect, nor is the electricity certification system. The Government therefore describes in the bill how the market actors will get better information via the Swedish Energy Agency about the development of the market, and it also wants to bring forward the next control station. When the previous government created a common electricity certification system with Norway, we welcomed it. But we already considered the level of ambition for renewables to be too low. Sweden can more, and the developments since then have made us even more convinced that it is possible to achieve more renewables by 2020 than the previous government wanted. I welcome the fact that a majority in Parliament supports this increase in ambition. The voters have given their support in elections to parties that want to see more renewable energy, and now we can cross the block border to make it a reality. It also creates a solid basis for those who are now ready to invest in more renewable energy. The Center Party is worthy of praise for the fact that we now have the courage to do so, which I also believe their voters expect. Having said that, I would like to point out that today the energy market is undergoing major changes. One of the biggest changes is that the price of producing new renewable electricity has fallen drastically. However, support is still needed to allow the expansion of renewable electricity production to continue at a high rate. It is important to increase the expansion of renewable energy production already now, so that Sweden is better equipped for a situation of impaired power balance. Another important aspect of more renewable energy is that the electricity generation system we have today is further diversified and thus contributes to increased security of supply. Electricity production in Sweden today is heavily dependent on nuclear power and hydropower. This means that when the availability of nuclear power plants is low or when it is dry, there is a need for other electricity generation, where renewable electricity generation generated through the electricity certification system can play an important role. Earlier comments have been made here that this and other changes in the energy sector should not be implemented now, but should be dealt with by the Energy Commission. This is, of course, an argument aimed at ensuring that there will be no investments in renewable energy before 2025. That is the purpose of the Energy Commission. The focus is on having an electricity supply after 2025 – 2030 that is safe and so on. It is important, as I have already mentioned, to increase the expansion of renewable energy production already now, so that Sweden is better equipped for a situation of impaired power balance. Such measures cannot wait. In addition, it is important to make these changes in connection with the control station that we have in 2015 because it is a major change and stakeholders need to understand in a reasonable time what conditions apply until the 2020 target year. It has also been suggested that increased ambition for renewables helps to squeeze already low prices. But it is important to remember to distinguish between apples and pears in this context. The changes that the government is now making with the increase in ambition in the electricity certification system and the change in the power tax have a marginal impact on, for example, the profitability of nuclear power. It is about a couple of cents and should be understood in this discussion as compared to the fact that the price has fallen by 25 öre while the security requirements for Fukushima have rightly also been greatly increased. In order for the increase in ambition to take effect, an agreement with Norway must also be approved. For this to take effect, Sweden needs to adjust taxes on renewables in the way the government has proposed in the 2016 budget bill. However, even under the alliance government, an investigation concluded that it is not compatible with EU rules to retain the tax exemption for energy from wind and sun. The changes brought forward by the government are now creating long-term rules of the game that will ensure that we comply with EU state aid rules, which is important because otherwise producers risk being reimbursable. Finally, I think what is now happening with the development of renewables is extremely positive, both because I like renewables and because I like production development and innovations. Sweden as a country has an enormous amount to gain from being at the forefront of everything related to green conversion. For if it is something we know, it is that the demand for new green technologies worldwide will increase. If we are to cope with Sweden's competitiveness, and thus jobs and welfare, we as a country must continue to invest in new green technologies. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-5e3bd0fc8115d6d4-126	Mr President, I would like to I have respect for the fact that there are some differences of opinion on such a question as to what steps to take and so on. But I want to take a business or industrial starting point in this. The type of companies involved in such things as mines, steel, chemical and forest industries are very clearly opposed to the proposals now being put forward by the government, i.e. the substantial increase in nuclear tax, combined with increased subsidies for renewable energy. We have here a situation where the system works with energy and effect, but these are challenges in the long term. If you push in more power generation, everything else equal, you push down prices and do not improve the system. There the industry has one opinion and Åsa Westlund has another. Therefore, I would like to ask Åsa Westlund: In what way are those who professionally and daily work with forests, chemistry, mines and steel wrong, and why is Åsa Westlund right in this?
i-5e3bd0fc8115d6d4-128	Mr President, I would like to Yes, Lars Helmered, etc. may have different opinions. I do not expect those who pay higher taxes or higher fees to welcome it. But I believe that society as a whole will benefit from the changes that we are now making. Lars Helmered has now said several times that there has been a significant increase in the tax on power. Then I would like to ask him: what is a massive increase in the tax on impact? Let me remind you that your own alliance government raised the impact tax in January 2008 by 24%. This government has increased it by 17%. So you increased it more in percentage terms, even though, unlike us, you inherited a state budget with surpluses. We inherited, as you know, a severe deficit after the alliance government: SEK 75 billion. What is a sharp increase in the tax rate, and why is our increase very wrong while you were right? While I still have the chance, I would also like to ask Lars Hjälmered: Do you really think that it is the increase in the tax rate that leads to the changes we see in the market today? Do you think your proposals would change the reality we are seeing, where some nuclear power owners have announced that they are going to close down some reactors? Would your proposal change that?
i-5e3bd0fc8115d6d4-132	Mr President, I would like to The answer to the question is really quite simple. These two decisions were taken in completely different market situations. The decision taken a number of years ago came when profitability and electricity prices were at a completely different level. This allowed for such a tax increase without having a draconian effect on energy market players. In today's situation, we can see an incredible transformation of the European energy market, which hits every player in the industry with a lack of profitability. It strikes the whole field, whether it's about wind power, nuclear power or other types of power. Kicking in an increase of almost 20 per cent then hits the economy and conditions. The combination of a sharp increase in nuclear tax and low electricity prices thus has an effect. But let us go back to the main issue. We can look at them as daily and professionally working with important Swedish industrial bones such as forest, chemistry, mines and steel. It is those who indirectly pay for some of these proposals but do not do so directly on the tax. They need security of energy supply. They say that, at the moment, it is a very bad proposal to raise the nuclear tax significantly. It is a very bad proposal to subsidise more new energies when there is really no demand. It is a proposal that would mean that electricity prices would be further pushed down, even though there is no demand for it. Then we're back at this. If we are serious about Sweden being a business and industrial country, beyond all the discussion that we have to take in other contexts about research, education, transport, trade policy and other things, another piece of the puzzle in the competitiveness puzzle is the security of energy supply. I have the view that I do not think we should take this step now, because it is directly bad for the Swedish energy supply. Åsa Westlund has another picture. I can only say that Åsa Westlund's view is directly opposed to the opinion of the operators in the industry. It is therefore those who professionally lead companies and who work in the forest industry or mining industry who see a threat to their business.
i-5e3bd0fc8115d6d4-136	Mr President, I would like to I would like to come back to this with what is a massively increased tax on impact. It is true that these were completely different situations. You chose to prioritise reducing the tax by very many billions and therefore also increased the impact tax. That's the priority you made. We are in a much worse economic position. We must finance all the reforms that we need to do to get more jobs and a better school in the country. Then we have also dealt with the impact tax in this context. I think it is very important to see that Sweden needs investment in energy. With your proposals, I can see that nothing is happening today. We are making an effort here to ensure that we get more renewable energy and thus better balance of power in the future. It also ensures the security of supply and energy security of the industries you are now lining up – many of them are also exempt from financing the new terawatt hours. I think that is a good policy. I think your policy lacks the plan that you called for from the government. What's your plan? You just say no to the proposals that are on the table but do not really have a plan of your own for the future.
i-5e3bd0fc8115d6d4-138	Mr President, I would like to The Green Party has been in favour of the electricity certification system, which provides support for renewable electricity, since it was introduced in 2003. However, we have proposed higher targets at times when the Riksdag decided on the design. Today, I am proud that Parliament will vote on the Government's proposal to raise the level of ambition and the target for renewable energy. With a majority in parliament to raise the target to 30 terawatt hours by 2020, Sweden will receive a significant contribution of renewable electricity, as many as five terawattim in the coming years to 2020. Five terawatt hours of renewable electricity are compared to the two reactors in Oskarshamn that have now been announced to be closed last year produced three terawatt hours. Many of Parliament's parties are to thank for the positive development of renewable energy through the electricity certification system, both when implementing and deciding on the continuation of the system, which can be described as the backbone of the deployment of renewable electricity in Sweden. The electricity certification system provides financial support to producers of renewable electricity. It's technology neutral. Since its introduction, most support has been given to hydropower, bioenergy and wind power. New plants put into operation will be able to benefit from the aid for a total of 15 years but up to 2035 at the latest. The expansion of renewable energy has gone faster than previously estimated by governments. Therefore, the continued expansion has hit the ceiling with the current objective, so to speak. That is why it now needs to be increased. The compensation has been very low, and in order to create the opportunity for more renewable energy to grow, the target needs to be raised by 2020. When Sweden and Norway merged in the electricity certification system in 2012, the Green Party proposed that the target be raised as negotiations with Norway would be required if the ambition were to be raised later. The bourgeois government voted against the proposal that it should then be raised. When the Social Democrats and the Green Party in the government now want to raise the target, it has just required a negotiation with Norway. The prerequisite for the proposal for an increased target to become a reality is that the Riksdag supports the part of the budget that contains a negotiated agreement with Norway. Together with low replacements for electricity certificates, Sweden now has very low electricity prices. This makes it difficult for companies to invest in renewable electricity. For a number of years, the renewables industry has been calling for a brake on continued investments, particularly in wind power. Today, no new electricity generation can be built without State aid. The relevant question then becomes: Which investment and which investment provides the most electricity for the money? New nuclear power costs SEK 1 per kilowatt hour, according to the experience of the countries in our world that are building new nuclear power. At the same time, we are currently building wind power for half the price, 50 øre per kilowatt hour, according to the Swedish Energy Agency's latest estimate. Today, an increased target in the electricity licensing system is probably the most cost-effective way to create the conditions for new electricity generation in our country. It is therefore reasonable that all actors talking about competitive prices and new investments should also advocate a new investment in the electricity certification system. Since 2011, the Environmental Party has been exercising in the Riksdag to raise the target in the electricity certification system from 25 terawatt hours to 30 terawatt hours. That is why I am very proud today that the government is making this happen. Mr President, I would like to There are parties arguing that Sweden does not need more renewable electricity and that today we have enough electricity. It becomes inconsistent when the same parties argue that Sweden would have a shortage of electricity when a number of nuclear reactors are now closed because they are old and unprofitable. It is positive if Sweden continues to have an electricity surplus to export. With an increased target for renewable energy, we can both gradually switch to 100% renewable energy and export renewable energy to our neighbours. The Energy Commission that is now working aims to review the energy system after 2025. This is a very important opportunity. All of Parliament's parties have been invited to see if we can reach a cross-block energy agreement. The Government takes responsibility for investments and a continued strong energy system also in the near future, i.e. up to the time horizon that the Energy Commission is discussing. The Alliance's previous energy agreement gives no answer on how to get new investments in electricity generation here and now. That is why this is an issue that is extremely important for Sweden. Technological developments are making renewable electricity production increasingly cheaper and competitive. Energy from wind and biofuels can now compete with coal and nuclear power. The costs of solar cells are rapidly falling. It is almost difficult to keep up to date about the very positive technology development around solar cells. The great opportunities to streamline and use energy smarter are also starting to have an impact on the public, politicians and companies. Anyone who does not vote for the government's proposal for five terawatt hours more renewable electricity should reasonably answer the question of how to ensure that new investments are made in renewable electricity generation or other electricity generation, if you prefer. How will the Moderates, Christian Democrats, the People's Party and the Swedish Democrats ensure that Sweden remains strong with new investments when you say no to the proposal that is now on the table? I have not heard any alternative proposals in this debate, but it is just passivity. In Sweden there are good conditions for renewable energy to grow further. Sweden is one of the countries in the world that has the best conditions for creating 100 percent renewable energy in its energy system. We already have a high share of renewable energy. We have very good natural conditions, and Sweden is a country with great competence in the field of energy. With today's decision on five terawatt hours more renewable electricity in the coming years, Sweden continues to work towards a renewable energy system. Mr President, I would like to I demand approval of the government proposal.
i-4ZyovYMhkskLpGq3mLNrHE	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by asking for the approval of reservation 1. The Swedish Democrats are a party that defends aviation. We see it as a very important mode of transport in our elongated country. We have had this attitude since we entered the Riksdag in 2010. During the previous parliamentary term, we made some deals with the then opposition on issues that strengthened aviation. Today we are in a new situation. The current bill before us is basically a kind of back-leaf lesson from Brussels in order to better implement the 2009 Airport Charges Directive. So this has not been satisfactory. At first sight, Mr President, we felt that this was something that should, in fact, be able to pass through by consensus in the Committee on Transport and Tourism. In order to maintain steady contact with the development of Swedish domestic aviation in particular, it has also been included that we have close contacts with the industry's representatives. That is what we had in this case. On p. 10 of the bill are the referrals made or, rather, which have been interpreted by the government. These are four pages where the Swedish aviation industry and SAS are broadly in agreement with the government. We asked for their views on that very thing, and we did. It was also sent out to all party representatives in the committee. Obviously, however, we were the only ones to take the impression of what they said, and that is why there is a reservation from the Swedish Democrats. It is not surprising, in itself, that we still find ourselves alone in opposition, when we consider that DÖ is not really dying yet, and that it is still a joke. With regard to the substance of the proposal, the Swedish aviation industry is clearly saying that it is clearly dissatisfied with parts of the bill. It is in the directives that efforts should be made to ensure that the airport managing body and users agree on changes to the system of airport charges or their level. There shall be clear requirements for the regulatory authority to be neutral and independent. That is where we bounce, because we are used to our agencies not being called into question on the basis of their objectivity. However, that is the case, and it must, of course, stand for the time being for the writer. Another point is that the regulatory authority should be obliged to consult interested parties in order to reach a decision. Everyone has taken note of this, but we are the only one to have taken a certain impression of it, for the simple reason that the risk is striking that this hindsight from Brussels will be another lesson. It would be a little embarrassing for the Swedish parliament. I hope this will not be the case, but I would have liked to have looked at this a little better and come back and perhaps not been so frivolous when it comes to interpreting the consultative bodies. We will probably keep an eye on that particular part of the bill from now on as far as all modes of transport are concerned. With this, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 1.
i-5e3bd0fc8115d6d4-164	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to support the Transport Committee's report 2015/ 16: TU 2 and therefore also to approve the proposal for amendments to the Airport Fees Act. This also means, of course, that I am calling for a rejection of the reservation from the Swedish Democrats. I'll get back to that in a little while. The report that we now have to deal with is, as the honourable Member said before me, the result of a letter of formal notice from the European Commission that Sweden has not properly implemented a directive. The measures now proposed in the proposal take this into account. Point by point, the Commission's communication is reviewed and corrected where necessary. An example of what the notification from the European Commission means: a Airport managing body should usually publish its decision or recommendation no later than two months before its entry into force. This was not in the legislation before, and we are now writing it into the legislation. Another point concerns the decisions of the airport management which are in general only. We note that it needs to be a fundamental decision in order to be able to appeal, i.e. that even if the airport management chooses not to change the fee, airport users should have the opportunity to appeal against that decision. Now we write in that a decision should be taken after consultation even in cases where the fees are left unchanged. The assessment of the government and the majority of the committees is that the changes taken together in the bill are sufficient to follow what the Commission's intelligence has indicated. I would like to respond to the reservation from the Swedish Democrats. As I understand it, it is mainly about three points. The first point is that it wants airport management and airport users to agree on changes as far as possible. It is a good and laudable starting point, but one has to think about how such legislation would work that says that one should agree. What would be the possibility of dealing with a situation where there is disagreement? We also have a responsibility to ensure that the laws we make work out in reality. On the other hand, the EU Directive does contain a number of measures that need to be implemented to ensure that the conditions for reaching agreement are as good as possible. These conditions are now fully implemented in the legislation. The second point of the reservation is that there should be a requirement for the regulatory authority to be neutral and independent. In this legislation, we appoint the Swedish Transport Agency to deal with the conflicts that exist. I honestly do not understand what the Swedish Democrats want us to include in the legislation. Should we enter that the Swedish Transport Agency is not independent, or should we enter that the Swedish Transport Agency should be independent or make independent assessments in the decisions of the authorities? I think that part of the reservation is the most difficult part to understand. The third point concerns the obligation for the regulatory authority to consult interested parties in order to reach a decision. We note that the directive on which this is based does not define the word. The communication of documents already present in most administrative cases under the Administrative Act can be seen as a form of consultation. The legislation then assumes that it is the Swedish Transport Agency – which is responsible for dealing with these matters – that determines which type of consultation is best at any given moment. With this, Mr President, I would once again like to support the committee's proposal for a decision.
i-5e3bd0fc8115d6d4-176	Mr President, I would like to The Airport Fees Act regulates the charges to be paid by airport users, i.e. airlines, in order for them to have access to services provided by the airport. These may include services related to take-off and landing, lighting, parking of aircraft, handling of passengers and cargo, and so on. The European Commission has pointed out shortcomings in the implementation and application of parts of the law in Sweden. That is why we need to make these regulations. Most of the points raised by the Swedish Democrats are already full. The only thing that remains is consultation, that is, agreement must be reached in order to be able to apply the law. It's not possible to have it on a team. So far, the aviation industry has been able to delay decisions and thus also delay price increases in the charging system. That's a problem in itself. That is precisely why we need to have a decision date in place and to submit a clear decision regardless of any increase or reduction in charges or whether they are unchanged. It is in order that there should not be a price pressure on the activities. After all, aviation is the mode of transport that emits the most per person-kilometre. Just a trip to Thailand round trip emits far more than a year's consumption of sustainable carbon dioxide. It's complicated to switch your flight to environmentally friendly. There are many good attempts under way, but it is well up until we reach fossil-free air traffic. It is important that we treat each mode of transport fairly and that each mode of transport bears its environmental costs. Aviation is not an energy efficient means of transport and should only be used where other means of transport are not available. We want to see a functional regulatory framework that treats the different modes of transport fairly and thought through. This time the case concerns the airport charges themselves, which are part of the transport infrastructure. They need to be dealt with properly, and they cannot be based on a price-pressing strategy on the part of the companies that aims to further lower the price. Flying is already unreasonably cheap. I therefore support the proposal to amend the Airport Fees Act.
