i-972bd42053d3e9d5-5	Madam President, I would like Anna Kinberg Batra has asked the Prime Minister what the process looks like for Sweden's participation in the Joint Expeditionary Force, how the Prime Minister intends to keep the Riksdag informed of major changes in Sweden's cooperation with NATO and how the Prime Minister intends to act to create an open and clear debate about Sweden's cooperation with NATO. The interpellation has been handed over to me. I would like to begin by answering the question about Joint Expeditionary Force. The defence policy proposal shows that the Government believes that Sweden should actively seek participation in bilateral and multilateral cooperation with emphasis on Northern Europe. As an example of this type of cooperation, the proposal mentions the UK-led Joint Expeditionary Force, JEF. The JEF is a British national force which can be supplemented, if necessary, by contributions from other countries. For example, the JEF can be made available to the UN, the EU and NATO. Norway, Denmark, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and the Netherlands have decided to participate in the force. There is no automatic connection to NATO and Very High Readiness Joint Task Force, VJTF. On the contrary, the British may choose to make it available to NATO. The countries cooperating with the UK through the JEF decide independently, on a case-by-case basis, whether they wish to contribute to exercises and military operations, including any contribution to NATO's Very High Readiness Joint Task Force. Sweden has not received a formal invitation from the UK Ministry of Defence to contribute to JEF. The issue has not been the subject of any political preparation or position. On the other hand, the relevant officials in the Government Office and the Swedish Armed Forces are following the development of cooperation around the JEF. If necessary, the Government intends to return to Parliament on the matter. I shall now turn to answering Kinberg Batra's questions about Sweden's cooperation with NATO. The Government intends to keep Parliament informed of foreign, security and defence policy. What we are doing with NATO is in line with the defence policy proposal supported by five parties. The government wants an open and broad, democratic and popular discussion on security and defence policy. Ambassador Krister Bringéus has been appointed to produce a report that analyses and describes, from an independent perspective, the implications of various forms of cooperation and membership with countries and organisations, as well as their advantages and disadvantages, in the field of defence and security policy, today and in the future. The analysis should not evaluate the military freedom of alliance. The investigation will, among other things, contribute to in-depth discussions in our country on these issues. The mission is part of the defence agreement between five parties from April this year. Finally, Anna Kinberg Batra writes that Sweden's Prime Minister needs to be clear about Sweden's defence and security policy line. The government is very clear. Our focus is solid. Military capabilities are gradually increased. At the same time, our international defence cooperation between Sweden and Finland, Sweden and Denmark, as well as within the framework of the Nordic, Baltic, EU, UN, NATO partnership and the transatlantic link. Swedish-Finnish cooperation has a special priority. Swedish military alliance freedom still serves our country well. Sweden shall not seek membership of NATO. As regards NATO, the partnership shall continue to develop in terms of both political dialogue and practical military cooperation, not least cooperation. For example, in the past the government has highlighted the possibilities of enhanced cooperation within the Enhanced Opportunities Programme. That is the direction that applies, and that is the direction that is now being pursued. When Anna Kinberg Batra, who produced the interpellation, reported that she was prevented from attending the sitting, the third vice-president admitted that Mr Wallmark could instead take part in the deliberations.
i-972bd42053d3e9d5-13	Madam President, I would like Mr. Secretary of Defense! Perhaps the Secretary of Defense is somewhat disappointed that I am the one who receives the answer and not Anna Kinberg Batra, who has aroused the interpellation. On the other hand, there is reason for us to be a little disappointed because it is not the Prime Minister who gives the answer. The questions were addressed to him. As far as the interpellation is concerned, it consists of a number of parts. I was initially going to concentrate on the first, namely Joint Expeditionary Force, JEF, and the document available at the Ministry of Defence for a request for Swedish participation. Whether it is a formal request or not, I do not know, but that is the title. The Committee on Defence has today decided to ask the Ministry of Defence to get the document out so that we can read and read it, and thus ponder what exactly it contains. Madam President, I would like We are five parties that support a defence policy direction, which is formulated in a bill. The Secretary of Defense usually refers to and reads it. I think that's basically a good thing. Let me look up p. 56 and quote from it: Both the EU and NATO are developing their concepts in order to be able to carry out military operations quickly. It can be noted that the Member States of the EU and NATO around the Baltic Sea are active in this development. The Government believes that Sweden should actively seek participation in bilateral and multilateral cooperation with emphasis on Northern Europe. An example of this type of cooperation is the British-led cooperation... where forces from, among other things, the British-led cooperation. Denmark, Norway and the Baltic countries are included. ..................................................... I am not quoting this to remind the Minister for Defence, because he is well acquainted with the document, but with everyone else who follows this debate. The JEF is identified as one of the reasonable areas for cooperation and cooperation with other countries. That is explicitly stated in the bill. That is why, Madam President, I have a question for the Minister for Defence: Does the Minister for Defence think it would be good if Sweden participated in the JEF, in accordance with what is stated in the specialization bill? If the question is answered with a yes, what can we do to become part of it? If, Madam President, there is some form of document dealing with a request for Swedish participation, I think that the question can be answered with great clarity with a yes. If so, it is in accordance with Swedish politics – to cooperate, to cooperate, to practice, to prepare to provide help and to prepare to receive help in the event of a crisis or a war situation. Madam President, I would like Furthermore, there has been a discussion about Very High Readiness Joint Task Force, VJTF. In defence, there are all these acronyms. The VJTF is currently open only to NATO's 28 Member States, and thus not to partner countries. My question to the Minister for Defence is: could he and the government work to ensure that NATO also opens it up to the partner countries? The VJTF is a rapid reaction force that could be used precisely to mark the threshold and presence, not least in Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania in the event of pressure, crisis or war. Would Sweden, as a non-Natoland, still want to participate in this security building? My answer is quite simple. I'll answer that question with a yes. I think that Sweden should participate. Pending our accession to NATO, I think that we should have that opportunity as a partner country. Does the Minister for Defence and the Government want to push for NATO to open this up to Sweden as well? Finally, NATO will hold a new major summit in Warsaw next year. What are the Swedish entry values there? What do we have to say about JEF, VJTF and developing and deepening cooperation between Sweden and NATO?
i-972bd42053d3e9d5-22	Madam President, I would like The heading of this interpellation is Clarity about Sweden's cooperation with NATO. On behalf of the Christian Democrats, we have just this weekend made sure that, for our part, we are clear about our position. We think that, given the developments in our neighbourhood and for many other reasons, it is now time for Sweden to become a member of NATO. This was a little side by side with today's debate, but it still felt important to say. I hope that the Party of the Minister for Defence will eventually come to the same conclusion. I would like to ask a specific question. As a large part of the Swedish people know, the reason we would be non-aligned was that we could be neutral in war. Now we have made decisions – and so have the Social Democrats – that that time has long been gone. We have adopted a declaration of solidarity that says that we should be able to receive help and provide help, and it is one-sided. However, we are also part of the Treaty of Lisbon, which says that we should stand up with every means at our disposal. Neutrality isn't there. Then I wonder: What is the purpose of Sweden being non-aligned today?
i-972bd42053d3e9d5-25	Madam President, I would like Thank you for giving me the opportunity to take part in this debate. I have two things to say. The first concerns what Mr Wallmark said about the initiative of the Committee on Defence. I am pleased that a united Committee on Defence supported my request that we take part in this memo in the Committee on Defence. The only title makes it seem interesting: Orientation about JEF and wishes for Swedish participation. Why, then, is this interesting, perhaps a friend of order asks himself. Then I think you have to go into the different acronyms. NATO's spearhead force, the VJTF, will be able to engage in battle within 48 hours. This requires a decision by NATO's 28 Member States. In order to deploy the force, it is enough for the NATO commander-in-chief to decide. One can get the impression that this is most academic interest, but it changes when one learns that at the February Ministerial Meeting the UK Defence Minister announced that when the UK 2017 is the framework nation for VJTF, it is JEF that will lead VJTF. Then you get a little wonderful, because the bill adopted by the Riksdag in June mentions JEF as an example of international cooperation we are happy to participate in. It could be a coincidence, but the thought beats you anyway. I think it is serious if there are such links. Now the Secretary of Defense has said that there are no such things, and of course we must believe him in his word. I have no reason to doubt that. However, I am concerned if one at the Ministry of Defence, when one gets a memo from the Swedish Defence Attaché in London with this clear title, does not seem to have read it and did not realize that it is something to perhaps orient the Minister about. That suggests some strange tours in the department. But I'm sure the Secretary of Defense will steer that up. I have full confidence in that. So this is what has led to my interest in this. Then I draw other conclusions from the cooperation with NATO, JEF and VJTF, but that is another discussion. The second part of the interpellation concerns the clarity of NATO. The government declaration clearly stated that Sweden should not seek membership of NATO. Although it was in the 2014 Government Declaration. In the 2015 Declaration of Government, I understand that this sentence has fallen. One can express oneself in different ways, but in government declarations in general and on such matters in particular, every word is weighed on a gold scale and valued accordingly. I therefore ask myself a little question. Perhaps the Minister for Defence can tell us about the background to the Government Declaration 2015 that Sweden should not apply for membership of NATO?
i-972bd42053d3e9d5-31	Madam President, I would like Mr. Secretary of Defense! Sweden's safety and security in northern Europe and around the Baltic Sea is a very serious and important issue. As the Minister of Defence and others have often pointed out, this is a new situation. Russia is unstable and aggressive. We must act on the basis of this new situation. I want to give the Secretary of Defense kredd because he takes the mission seriously and, together with the rest of us, has contributed to more money for the defense, which is necessary. I think it needs even more. Unfortunately, the Party of the Minister of Defence, of which he is obviously bound, has a blind spot in security policy, namely NATO. There is an ostrich policy, I would say. This question, says the Social Democrats, was thoroughly analysed, and it was settled in 1947. It's forever. After 70 years, it still applies. We must not analyse the NATO issue. It's a dogma. It is clear that today we have a completely different reality in the world and in northern Europe than in 1947. I think it is misconduct and irresponsible that the largest party in Sweden does not even admit that this issue is being analysed. You can't face reality like that. Two smaller but strong parties within the bourgeoisie, the Center Party and the Christian Democrats, have dared to address the issue. In the Center Party it happened from a very clear position: we have been proud of our freedom of alliance, which has served us well and so on, but we have also taken on board reality, Minister for Defence. It's a good time. In my view, continued freedom of alliance around the Baltic Sea contributes to instability rather than to stability in northern Europe. We in the Center Party have taken a stand to start a process so that, after a referendum and so on, Sweden can join NATO. We want a broad consensus, and that makes the position of the Social Democrats important. We would also like Finland to take this step with us. The issue cannot even be analysed, but the issue is still moving. I would like to say to the Minister for Defence that I read with great interest his debate article in a leading Swedish national newspaper recently that highlighted the gravity of the situation and that Sweden must cooperate militarily very closely with other democracies. The Swedish Armed Forces also state this extremely clearly. When the Minister for Defence had highlighted it, the conclusion should be that we should start a process and analyse NATO. He did not say that, but he said: then we should cooperate extremely closely and to a much greater extent with the United States. That is a good thing, but I think that the US is happy to refer to the fact that the defence cooperation that exists within the EU is via NATO. I do not believe that the US wants to enter into bilateral cooperation with 23 EU countries in order to assert security in northern Europe. I've been on the defense committee for eight years. I have come to the conviction that the reality is that Sweden has no choice but to defend its security by joining NATO. We're almost there today. It's not a big step. It is sad that there are still such charges on this issue, but I hope that the Social Democracy, as was done on the European issue 20 years ago, will come up with a different view of it overnight.
i-972bd42053d3e9d5-40	Madam President, I would like It is gratifying that Staffan Danielsson is again an active part of the Swedish defence and security policy debate. Several parties have now testified to their positions in favour of Swedish NATO membership, Madam President. It is 16 years since the People's Party began to push this issue to a large extent. Peter Hultqvist is a Minister of Defence who gladly and for a long time talks about peoples' attachment, namely our political task of anchoring the Swedish defence and security policy with the wider public. Minister Hultqvist has also shown exceptional transparency, Madam President, with regard to the intelligence operation that took place a year ago in the Stockholm archipelago. There were plenty of representatives of the media both around and throughout that operation. There were press conferences on conclusions, etc. Peter Hultqvist has also recently become known for his consistent desire to increase the transparency of incidents and violations of the Swedish territory. But in the question now under discussion, namely the possible participation in the JEF, Joint Expeditionary Force, the Minister of Defence is waving away the act that has apparently come to the Ministry of Defence as something that a military attaché has more or less thrown out. He has repeatedly stressed that there has been no political or other preparation for this memo. He has also publicly affirmed that he has not played under the covers. Against this background, Madam President, a question arises: why does the government choose to keep this document confidential? It is not dangerous, Madam President, to approach NATO or other bilateral or multilateral security cooperation, but it will be dangerous, Madam President, when we do not openly communicate these advances with the Swedish people.
i-972bd42053d3e9d5-45	Madam President, I would like There were many posts that should be handled in some kind of response. I don't know where to start, but I can say this: The facts regarding JEF are very simple. It is nothing new that has happened since my previous comments. There is no political preparation on this issue. There's no request from the British Department of Defense. The contacts I have had on that edge have not raised this issue. I'll be meeting with the British Secretary of Defense in the future. I'll see if he'll mention this. Diplomatic reporting on the military side is fundamentally confidential. We do not usually disclose that kind of information to individuals. We will, of course, respond positively to the request made by the committee. It's not an obstacle. The members of the committee will, of course, benefit from this. However, we do not disclose documents to individuals in this context, but we make a confidential assessment of every document that is classified in the department. This type of reporting is basically classified. This is probably more about a formal procedure, Mr Widman, and not about my possible willingness to put the lid on in any context. I can only say that, since I have not been involved in this process myself and it has not been prepared and we have not received a request, there has been no reason to take a position on it. The wording Wallmark read out of the orientation bill was exactly the wording that I outlined at the beginning of my reply. It is no problem for me to put that wording on the table, because I have done so myself in today's debate. I stress that the JEF is a British national force which can be supplemented, if necessary, by contributions from other countries. We are participating in a lot of different collaborations right now. We have a very high level of ambition in this regard. NATO Response Force is one example. We have all the development work that we are now doing within the framework of the Nordic region. It is about Sweden and Denmark, Sweden and Finland, the Baltic States, the EU, NATO's partnership and the transatlantic link. The EOP is the highest form of cooperation with NATO as a partner country. It is about ability development, practice cooperation and information exchange. It is an in-depth security policy dialogue on Sweden, Finland and NATO and the security of the neighbourhood. So we have a very high level of ambition, and we make new agreements and new plans all the time. What is now happening with the United States is a road map that we are working on, which is also based on the parliamentary decision and the five points for cooperation with the United States mentioned there. There is no great news in what we are doing, but what I am trying to do is to implement Parliament's decision of June. What is happening is anchored and is based in the various details on Parliament's position and decision. You shouldn't paint a picture of us playing under the covers or doing anything else. Then I can tell Stig Henriksson that in my introduction I said: we should not seek membership of NATO, but the military freedom of alliance is firmly established. That is the government's line, and there is, like, no need to debate it. I will have to come back and further develop the reasoning in my next speech.
i-972bd42053d3e9d5-54	Madam President, I would like There is certainly the possibility for the Minister of Defence to develop in the next speech. That's two hope-inspiring things. One is that the Moderates and the Left Party side by side at today's meeting in the Defence Committee made this request to the Ministry of Defence. And what the Government is now saying is very positive: it is clear that the Committee on Defence will be able to read the document. That's good. The second is exactly what has been said. I find it extremely gratifying that we are now getting more clarity about a Swedish NATO membership. This has happened in the last two weeks thanks to the decisions of the Center Party and the decisions of the Christian Democrats. We have gone from two parties in the Swedish Parliament to four parties. There is room for more, Madam President. What should nevertheless be noted – it is the exchange of views that the Minister of Defence had with the Center Party – is that the Center Party has historically been the traditional partner of the Social Democrats in the country of the Swedish Alliance Freedom Line. The fact that the Center Party has now taken a different position, given the circumstances and the deteriorating security situation, should give thoughtful Social Democrats time for reflection. Madam President, I would like With regard to the arguments against NATO, there are some mixed reasons for saying no. It is traditional anti-Americanism, which is on the left. There are those who argue that one should not be in one alliance or another. That is quite apart from the fact that Europe's history has changed since 1991. The Warsaw Pact then ceased to exist. Most of the countries that were coercively coercive in the Warsaw Pact have voluntarily joined NATO and the EU. Then there is the argument that says not to upset the balance. Madam President, we now come to the second part of the defence minister's reply, namely on the Swedish NATO debate, and that is what Ambassador Bertelman touches on in his investigation. He says that from the perspective of others, Sweden is essentially with but without us receiving the absolute most important benefit, namely the collective aid, what we sometimes call Article 5, which means that other countries will come to our aid and rescue if anything happens. This is the problem with the position of the Minister for Defence. He lists all the collaborations, exercises and projects with the United States and individual NATO countries that he wants to implement and implement, and which he also implements and implements, and that is excellent. I think it's good! He receives no criticism from me in terms of deepening cooperation and exercise activities with NATO countries and the United States. But other countries, such as Russia, look at Sweden and see a country so confused with the rest of NATO that it is impossible to see where the differences begin and end. Then we are part of all this, but we do not have the ultimate advantage. This is the blind spot of the Social Democrats, and it is in that part that the Minister for Defence now has the opportunity to develop his views. Madam President, I would like With regard to the JEF, the VJTF and a third, namely the enhanced partnership Enhanced Opportunities Programme, my question is once again to the Minister for Defence: what is the will? What's the request? It is said that the JEF is not politically prepared and that there is no position. My simple question is, what does the Secretary of Defense want? If you ask me, I say, "I want to go!"
i-972bd42053d3e9d5-64	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to say that it is very good, as has been said here in the speaker's chair, that this work material should come to the committee so that we can have the transparency that the committee needs about this. This cooperation was part of the defence agreement and was pointed out as something that Sweden should actively seek to participate in, so it is very good. It is a way for us to realise what the declaration of solidarity really is, and it is only when you practice together, Madam President, that there can be something of it. Tomas Bertelman has been mentioned in the debate. He was going to investigate the defence cooperation and came to the conclusion that we are already being seen as part of NATO, but we are not getting protection. What I find interesting is that he has been an ambassador to Russia before, and it was about a year since he came to this conclusion. A week ago he went out DN Debate and talked about the continued Swedish freedom of alliance reducing stability and that the best contribution we can make to stability and security, not only for Sweden and the Baltic Sea but also for the Baltics, is to join NATO. With Sweden becoming a member of NATO, Sweden's credibility in defending the Baltic States will increase drastically, thereby reducing the risk of Russian adventures in our neighbourhood. The question that I did not receive an answer to is: What is the Swedish freedom of alliance intended if we are not to be neutral in war anymore?
i-972bd42053d3e9d5-69	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister of Defence. The fact that there are neither plaintiffs nor defendants to the interpellation here is perhaps the reason why there is a general NATO debate, which was not really contained in the issues. But I'm not going into it. There is much to say, but I cannot help commenting on Mr Wallmark and the most curious argument I have heard so far for participation in NATO, that is to say to remind you that the Warsaw Pact has been dissolved. It would thus be an argument for Sweden to join the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. It's an interesting thought, I think. But I won't be negative. I thought I'd pay tribute to everyone here. I think it is great that the committee agreed to my request to request this document, and I think it is great that the Minister for Defence says that the Committee on Defence should of course receive it. It is equally obvious that this is done in a confidential manner with regard to handling. I think it is good to see the clear clarification from the Minister for Defence and the Government in different contexts that we should not become members of NATO. I think that is excellent, and I assume that the Green Party is on that wagon. It may be added that a couple of environmental partners have even exercised here in Parliament that we should not proceed with the host country agreement. It will be interesting to follow that discussion. I think, as I said, that this is very good, although for some reason it has fallen into the government declaration. I've noticed that there you weigh every word on a gold scale. But it is good that it is declared. It is just as well that the Alliance declares that they absolutely want to join NATO, because then we can have a good debate on the pros and cons of it all, between us who want to maintain the freedom of alliance and you who want to go all the way.
i-972bd42053d3e9d5-76	Madam President, I would like Mr. Secretary of Defense! I was going to read out, a little poorly translated by me, Section 5 of the NATO Statute, which provides mutual protection, and then the paragraph of the Treaty of Lisbon that we are already bound by. § 5 sounds like this: NATO Member States agree that an armed attack on one or more of them should be considered an attack on all of them. Similarly, they agree that, if such an attack occurs, each of them shall, in accordance with Article 51 of the UN Charter, assist Member States or countries under attack by taking measures, individually or jointly, which it considers necessary, including the use of armed forces, to restore and maintain security in the North Atlantic area. That's §5. It assists in the way it considers necessary and, before doing anything, every NATO country has the right to veto whether or not the operation is to be carried out. On the other hand, the Treaty of Lisbon of the European Union, which we are already bound by and which includes almost all NATO countries, is far more far-reaching. It sounds like this: if a Member State is subjected to an armed attack on its territory, the other Member States are obliged to provide support and assistance to that Member State with all the means at their disposal in accordance with Article 51 of the United Nations Charter. We are already bound by 23 out of 28 EU countries. We are part of NATO's partnership. We are the most active country. Why not start a process to take this step of getting the security of § 5 and the commitment that is less than we already have through the EU Treaty?
i-972bd42053d3e9d5-81	Madam President, I would like In his reply to me, the Minister of Defence stated that all reports from military attachés are classified in the Ministry of Defence. I assume that this was an error, because the legislation requires confidentiality in each individual case with regard to public documents. From what I understand, parts of the disputed document have been published, and I cannot understand for my life why the government does not eliminate all suspicions of gambling under the cover and show the rest of it. The actions now being undertaken by the Minister of Defence and the Government only mean that history will continue to live in the mass media for a considerable period of time to come. You won't win anything. When I hear the Minister for Defence comment on the military freedom of alliance by saying that the government's line is firm and that there is no reason to discuss, I begin to understand what approach you have to communication with the Swedish people on deeply serious issues in defence and security policy. I have also tried to avoid turning this debate into a general NATO debate, Madam President. But when Hans Wallmark says that Sweden's freedom of alliance lacks credibility, while Sweden is not covered by the binding defence guarantees of NATO membership, he is of course quite right. One could add to this the fact that Sweden has consistently been dependent for more than 20 years on an organisation in which Sweden has no influence whatsoever.
i-972bd42053d3e9d5-85	Madam President, I would like When I say that the government's line is firm, it is not an expression of the fact that there is no need for discussion, but it is an expression of the fact that we will not change our position. This is the government's line. It is important to be clear on this point. They question both from the left and from the right what line the government has. What the government has said is true. It's not news to any of you. However, you have all participated in some kind of game where you try to paint a picture that what we say is not what applies but that we are doing something else. I would like to do so in depth, so that we can get the question out of the discussion – we should not discuss it on the basis of a disinformatic relationship. It's as simple as that. Then there was the question of the action. We've handled it correctly from the Department's side. It had not been handled, Allan Widman, in any other way under the previous government either. The practice that the committee is to deal with when Members are to read the document is that the document is in the safe of the head of the cabinet and every member who reads the document signs it. The confidentiality is still valid. This is the order that has become the practice. We have no ambition to post all attaché reporting on the table for public viewing as soon as there is an article in the paper. You can't do that. Everyone is right that there are parts of the document that are not classified, but that does not apply to that type of material. We can, if necessary, go into this at another time. Then there was the question of freedom of alliance. Our view is that freedom of alliance contributes best to stability in our part of Europe. We believe that increased defence capabilities, as we agree, are important. It increases, with the help of a settlement, by 11% over five years. We want to deepen our cooperation. We go furthest with Finland, where we mark even beyond peacetime conditions. Sweden participates in a wide range of activities which in themselves are safety policy signals, including exercise activities. Sweden does it with the United States. It is a fundamental difference to be in NATO and not to be in NATO. This is about collective security guarantees. This means a fundamental change of doctrine if Sweden joins NATO, and it affects the overall security policy situation in our part of Europe and puts pressure on Finland in particular to change its security policy doctrine. Do you think you have a mandate to try to put pressure on Finland? How do you view the Finnish centre party, which definitely rejects NATO membership? The fact that Finland would join NATO is an even more dramatic issue than for Sweden. The government believes it is better to try to benefit security and stability by deepening all collaborations and marking that Sweden is not naive. Sweden wants to see what happens. We oil the channels and create freedom of action if the crisis is a fact. But the government basically has a defensive stance. Our demand is that Sweden be allowed to remain in peace, that sovereignty be respected linked to international law and law. That's how we think you work the best way. Then, of course, you refer to a variety of newspaper articles, authorities and people who have held high positions in society. But one has the right to make different assessments in a democracy. You don't have to hit each other in the head with one authority after another. There are many authorities who speak in a different way. The government's line is solid.
i-972bd42053d3e9d5-96	Madam President, I would like My party leader's interpellation to the Prime Minister, for whom the Minister for Defence and I take the answers, had the third question to the Prime Minister: How does the Prime Minister intend to act to create an open and clear debate on Sweden's cooperation with NATO? I think that these 45 minutes in this House is a good illustration of the request made by my party leader to Peter Hultqvist's party leader. I was asked whether the dissolution of the Warsaw Pact was an argument. Madam President, I would like I personally have no phantom pains for the absence of the Warsaw Pact, although there are other Members of this House who may have it. The argument has been to take some kind of mid-intermediate position. If one alliance doesn't exist, it's hard to be in the middle. That is why I think that this particular argument should be dismissed immediately. Madam President, I would like The debate has dealt a great deal with the document. Let's leave it there. I would like to return to the fundamental issue. Do we or do we not want to be part of the cooperation that the British have within the framework of the JEF? The Minister of Defence says that the issue has not yet been prepared politically, and there is no position. But what is the political preparation like? When does one return with a position? Madam President, I would like It is perfectly reasonable that Sweden should become part of the JEF in accordance with what is stated in the specialization bill. It makes more sense for us to become part of it than for us to turn it down. What does the preparation look like? How does the government return to this issue? Madam President, I would like The Minister for Defence notes that there is a fundamental difference between being in NATO and not. Exactly! That's exactly what it's all about. I do not intend to involve any other country in cooperation, but there is an equally lively and equally vital discussion in Finland. My sister party in Finland is in favour of NATO membership. This is also true of my sister parties in Norway and Denmark. Parentetically, I can say that Peter Hultqvist's sister parties in Norway and Denmark are also in favour of NATO membership.
i-972bd42053d3e9d5-104	Madam President, I would like I've missed a question about the VJTF. Partner countries are not invited to participate in such contexts. As long as that is the case, it is not appropriate for us to take a position on such a thing. I would just like to remind you of what I have tried to describe here, namely a great deal of ambition and cooperation that we are trying to keep going – which also costs money. It's not that it's free to do that business. Therefore, it requires a little more consideration before you stand here and promise one cooperation after another and time perspective. It is reasonable to make an official request or request before talking about it at all. I will come back to the JEF question in the event that the issue becomes relevant and the government makes the assessment that we should move forward on that point. I note that the issue is mentioned as an example. An example is not the same as a requirement picture. There is a difference, and it should be cleared out. It is probably a little more difficult, Wallmark, than that it is about not having the ambition to drag any other country into the cooperation. But if Sweden takes a stand to join something, it puts pressure on Finland. That's just the way it is. You have to think a little wider. It is a question that has a different magnitude in Finland from what it has for us because Finland is a direct border country. There are parallels and historical experiences of what it was like during the so-called Cold War. The government believes that the basic approach of alliance freedom, combined with the various collaborations and an increased military capacity, creates a preventive position before a conflict arises, and the approach creates freedom of action in a possible conflict situation. It's the best thing for Sweden.
i-972bd42053d3e9d5-110	Madam President, I would like Mikael Oscarsson has asked me how I intend to proceed with the review of the need for, and the possibility of, the introduction of a carennial system for personnel leaving the state administration in favour of the defence and security industry, which is announced in the defence policy proposal. At the outset, I would like to point out that there are already a number of rules to protect the public in the event of transfers between public and private activities. For example, as a general rule, the confidentiality of information covered by the obligation of professional secrecy also applies after the termination of employment in the public domain. However, this does not rule out the need for further regulation in some cases, and provisions on withdrawal periods could be one way. I have initiated a work within the Ministry of Defence to make an initial assessment of the need for and possibilities for introducing a withdrawal system. These are complex questions of principle and justice which are not limited to the field of defence and which require thorough consideration. On the one hand, it must be ensured, as far as possible, that transitions between public and private activities are not contrary to the public interest. On the other hand, account must be taken of the constitutionally protected freedom of trade and occupation. It should also be stressed that there are advantages to mobility between public and private activities. The question of whether and, if so, to what extent carer rules should be introduced, which officials should be covered and what conditions are in place for this need therefore to be further analysed. The scope and form of further handling of the matter may be determined after the initial analysis now being carried out.
i-972bd42053d3e9d5-114	Madam President, I would like The background to this interpellation debate is the work that has been done in the Defence Committee, both here and the former, and which has led to the Government's approval of the Government in the Specialisation Bill, which the Riksdag voted for, says: The reasons for the government's assessment: The Government, like the Defence Committee, considers that the need for and the possibility of introducing a withdrawal system for personnel leaving the state administration in favour of the defence and security industry should be reviewed. The unique character of the defence area, including: With regard to confidentiality and close cooperation between industry and the state, specific regulation should be considered. ..................................................... This is precisely the background. The defence area is unique in character. The relationship between the customer, that is, us taxpayers, and the industry is often very dense and the need for confidentiality is great. As I mention in my interpellation, over a period of years several government employees, officers, officials and politicians have moved to the defence industry more or less directly from their positions in the state administration. The mere suspicion that someone could unduly benefit from these transitions at the expense of taxpayers must be avoided. An important step in this direction would be the introduction of a Karen system. This is something that exists in the UK and Norway. We have received criticism from the European Commission, Madam President, because we miss this and because it is an unregulated area. I have an article in front of me from Aftonbladet. It's about Jonas Hjelm, which is an example. It was on 15 November 2005 that Sweden concluded the criticized Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) agreement on military cooperation with Saudi Arabia. The MoU meant that Saab could sell the Erieye radar system for about SEK 5 billion to the dictatorship. During the preparatory work and development of the MoU, Jonas Hjelm was then Minister of Defence Leni Björklund's Secretary of State and the highest official at the Ministry of Defence. So he was in charge of this. In December 2006, he went to Saab, where he became responsible for the company's European contacts and the guarding of the Swedish defence market. ..................................................... There is also a recent example. The previous government acted together with the Swedish Armed Forces and made decisions that allowed Saab for a comparatively cheap money to buy Kockums from German Thyssen Krupp. There is a State Secretary named Gunnar Wieslander, who was then responsible and who then, quite close to, became head of this particular business at Saab Kockums. I have no accusations against these people, in no way, but I still think it illustrates the importance of this. It's not just taken out of the air, it needs to be regulated. My question is this: what measures has the Minister of Defence taken to put into practice what the Committee on Defence ordered and which is now also being put into the specialization bill?
i-972bd42053d3e9d5-124	Madam President, I would like I've been on the Committee on Defence today and I've explained this to you. It must be borne in mind that the Riksdag makes its decisions in June and that there are many decisions to be implemented in connection with the specialization bill. This is one of them. What we have started with is an initial analysis of the need for and the possibility of introducing a withdrawal system. That analysis, carried out at the Department, will form the basis for the next step in the process. So we have started step one. It is clear that the examples Mikael Oscarsson lifts up indirectly cast some kind of shadow on these people, no matter how you explain it. However, this is not a new problem, but this could have been dealt with by the previous government during its eight years if it had been in the process. Now we are where we are, and we have this orientation bill. I'll do what I can in my area to find a system that makes sense here. It is also true that this has a broader potential than just the defence sector. It also concerns other areas of the Government Office, so it must be broadened there as well. So the question is broader than just the defence. But there are things that make you have to think about this very carefully. There are risks. Those who work in the public sector or in the defence sector and have access to various types of data may risk undue influence in different decision-making situations as a result of promises of new employment in the private sector in a longer perspective. There is a risk that sensitive information, knowledge or previous contacts can be exploited in a way that eliminates competition and is contrary to the public interest in such transitions. Of course, if there is a suspicion that this will happen, it will affect confidence in the public sector. Rules and procedures may therefore be needed to manage the mobility between public and private activities. Here I and Oscarsson have no views that conflict with each other. We have started an analysis in stage one, and we will come back with a more thorough thought. We can move on when that analysis is complete. That information will then also be communicated.
i-972bd42053d3e9d5-133	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for Defence for his reply, and I am pleased with the consensus expressed by the Minister for Defence in his reply. I think that is a good thing. But there is one thing that actually makes me a little worried, and that is what the Secretary of Defense is saying about this widening. I understand that it is complex, but if it is to be broadened to all departments, Madam President, I think it is the same as saying that this will never happen. In the Defence Committee it is said that the order applies precisely to personnel leaving the state administration for the benefit of the defence and security industry. You have to start cutting this sausage somewhere, if I may put it that way. If we are to get the legislation and regulation that is being asked for from many quarters – both industry and individuals would probably find it nice to know what applies and avoid floating in ignorance – it is dangerous to say that this should be broadened, because then it can drag on and take a very long time. The government chooses how to prepare it. Perhaps one needs to have a special investigator who makes a quick investigation and compares the systems in Norway, the UK and other countries and how they have solved this and who can see how we can steer it up so that we get the transparency and clarity that the European Commission is asking for. In Sweden there is such a quarantine for those who sit in the Riksbank. Does the Minister of Defence continue to focus on delivering in his field what is in the Defence Committee? Or is it the broader approach that applies? It's important to find out. This also applies to the time perspective. Time's fast. The question is whether there are plans to present a proposal within one year at the latest so that we can get this regulation in place in good time during the term of office.
i-972bd42053d3e9d5-139	Madam President, I would like In my opening speech, I said that these are complex questions of principle and justice which are not limited to the field of defence and which require thorough consideration. What I am looking for is that it is also seen that decisions in principle in one area can have effects in a broader perspective. It is therefore important to act so as not to make mistakes and create situations that in the next step seem unreasonable. I am not a supporter of the principle fast and wrong, so it is better to see the issue in its full scope. My area is, of course, the defence area. On that basis, I will work for us to do something in that sector, but I cannot ignore the fact that it probably has further consequences. I think it makes sense for Oscarsson to come to terms with that. I am well aware of how it is formulated in the orientation bill, but we should not put ourselves in a position where we deal with this too with choice or too quickly so that we then have problems. If so, how will this be implemented, Oscarsson asks. It can be introduced through constitutional or contractual regulations. It depends on what is found in a possible investigation. What we are looking at in the review at the Ministry of Defence is precisely what the different steps should look like and how we should post it so that it becomes good and sensible. However, to deal with the breadth of the issue with the left hand and say that we can ignore a broader approach, I do not believe that we are holding the confrontation with reality. I do not know if we need to tear up any feelings in this context. We're basically in agreement. You may have to rely on us to deal with this in the most delicate and thorough way possible so that we can move forward and get something done, Mikael Oscarsson. I believe, like you, that we should try to achieve something, but we should do it so that it lasts.
i-972bd42053d3e9d5-147	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. As I said, I am pleased with the Minister for Defence's clarification that this is something that the Minister for Defence intends to address. Quick and wrong are never good, but slow and nothing is also wrong. The defence committee has clearly pointed this out, and there are several historical examples that give reason to look at it. The European Commission has also pointed this out. For everyone involved, it would be good if it were regulated. I am in favour of a thorough investigation in which we look at these countries and how we can get it into Swedish legislation. However, I would like us to act as soon as possible when we have all the facts on the table. I have no objection to this extension to other areas. However, my responsibility in the Riksdag as a defence spokesperson for the Christian Democrats is to monitor what we agreed on in the Defence Committee: that, given the unique nature of confidentiality and close cooperation, a withdrawal system for personnel leaving the government in favour of the defence and security industries should be reviewed. I thank the Minister for Defence and await a proposal in due course so that we can get legislation in place.
i-972bd42053d3e9d5-152	Madam President, I would like I think we are basically in agreement, so there is not so much to do. The defense bill is 120 pages. There are a lot of decisions to be made. If we are to achieve this, we must try to respect the fact that there is a substantial amount of work and that not all issues can be resolved with immediate effect. It will take some time, especially if the ambition is for us to do so in such a way that things become feasible and that we do not go on the pump at a later stage. Thank you for the debate. It is good that questions are raised to the surface and may be clarified sometimes.
i-972bd42053d3e9d5-155	Madam President, I would like Allan Widman has asked me what measures I am prepared to take to ensure a comprehensive governance and coherent planning of the Swedish total defence. According to law, total defence is the activity needed to prepare Sweden for war. Total defence consists of military defence and civil defence. Under the highest level of preparedness, total defence is all community activities that will then be carried out. The work on total defence and planning for increased preparedness has been neglected in the 21st century. In the light of the deteriorating world situation and the increased uncertainty in the neighbourhood, it is a priority to bring about a modern total defence planning. Planning for Sweden's preparedness is based on a common view of society's security based on the objectives for our security decided by the Riksdag. The orientation bill is written in a total defence perspective. The bill shows that the single most important part of the defence-oriented period 2016 – 2020 should be to increase the operational capability of the armed forces and to ensure the overall capability of the total defence. The Government considers it important to coordinate planning between military and civil defence, to increase knowledge of civil defence, to identify emergency measures that need to be taken in conjunction with the relevant actors and to ensure that there is preparedness to accelerate planning work if necessary. The Government's focus on the Armed Forces' defence planning is a starting point for civil defence planning. The Government decides on instructions to the Swedish Armed Forces for defence planning, where a number of planning assumptions describe the nature of the crisis and war situations that Sweden may face. These planning assumptions form a basis for civil defence planning. The government's division of labour means that the Minister for Home Affairs is responsible for coordinating emergency preparedness and civil defence, in so far as this is not about the military capabilities of the defence. As Minister of Defence, I am responsible for military defence and coordination between military defence and civil defence within the framework of total defence, which I take very seriously.
i-972bd42053d3e9d5-163	Madam President, I would like There is little truth in the defence minister's claim that the orientation proposal, the directional decision and also the defence preparation that preceded it are characterized by a total defence perspective. Against this background, it was somewhat surprised that the current government, when it took office, made a difference between civil defence on the one hand and military defence on the other. One wonders whether the Prime Minister, before organising his Government Office, had taken note of the conclusions reached by the Defence Committee. If this had happened ten years ago, it would not have been so surprising. But it is more surprising when such a distinction is made between civil and military defence at a time when tensions are increasing very significantly in our neighbourhood and when we have put ourselves in a situation where we have effectively dismantled every form of civil defence in this country. It's usually called the devil sitting in the details. While I now remind myself to thank the Minister for Defence for the answer, there are some wordings there that I care about. Among other things, it is said that it is a priority for the government to bring about a modern total defence planning. When you use the word modern in this context you are almost led to believe that there was something wrong with the old model of total defence that Sweden had during, for example, the Cold War. At that time, there was also a civil equivalent for each military official, within the framework of a total defence where there was a constant dialogue between the civilian and the military. Is this what has become out of fashion, or is it other parts? Is it the executive committee in the total defense that is not considered the mother? I would be grateful, Madam President, if the Minister for Defence had the opportunity to develop this in his forthcoming response. Another formulation that occurs is that the Armed Forces' defence planning should be a starting point for planning the total defence. Then I wonder: Will it be the only starting point for total defence planning, or is it one of several starting points? I believe, Madam President, that the answer to that question can have different consequences. I'm interested in getting a precision there too. At the end of his reply, the Minister for Defence found out how the government has distributed the work on these issues. He said that the Minister for the Interior is responsible for organising emergency preparedness and civil defence, insofar as this is not about the military capabilities of the defence, and that as Minister for Defence he is responsible for military defence and coordination between military defence and civil defence within the framework of total defence, which he says he takes very seriously. I think that those words show a certain complexity and a very great need for coordination in the government. I fear, Madam President, that coherent governance of this area of activity in the future will be significantly hampered by the division of responsibilities between the government.
i-972bd42053d3e9d5-172	Madam President, I would like As far as modern defence planning is concerned, I do not think there is any reason to dramatise those words, but it is basically a question of starting from a zero point of view. We need to build something new that we think is appropriate for the time we are living in. Then we can surely find parts of what was once good and that we might take on as experiences, but we may also find other pieces that we can develop based on today's conditions. I would like to say to Mr Widman that there is no reason to bury yourself in that concept. Then it is well as Widman says that the devil always sits in the details. If you have some experience in dealing with administrative issues and bureaucratic organisations and so on, you know that it is not possible to speak only in horizontal terms. One must also have some knowledge and a sense of the details that create the whole. This is important to have with you when you go into this sort of thing. I think that when planning the future total defence, one should strictly start from the orientation bill. One can begin by assessing that a defense of this kind involves more than government authorities. It has a breadth inside municipalities, county councils, private companies and voluntary organisations. It is an assessment of society's total resources, to be mobilised in a possible crisis situation. The government's assessment is that coherent planning for total defence should be ensured through planning instructions to the relevant authorities. The capacity of state authorities at central and regional level to prioritise and allocate resources in case of increased preparedness should be developed. It's one of those directions. Another important aspect that I would like to highlight is: a holistic approach covering the whole threat scale, a common regulatory framework and a coherent planning process should coordinate civil defence planning with the Armed Forces' defence planning as well as peace-time crisis planning. – – – Planning work should be based on the ability to manage crises in society in peacetime also providing a basic ability to handle war situations. –– – There is an urgent need to coordinate planning between civil and military defence, to increase knowledge of civil defence, to identify preparedness measures that may need to be taken in conjunction with relevant actors and to provide a readiness to accelerate planning work if necessary. ..................................................... These sentences, which I have drawn directly from the specialization bill, mark a very clear orientation. As I see it, organisational forms or how the government has initially distributed the work cannot affect what is in the bill. That is what should be pursued, that is what Parliament's mission to the government is, and that is what the government must act on.
i-972bd42053d3e9d5-179	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to express my appreciation for the frankness of the Minister for Defence. He said we don't have a civil defense. That's the truth. The civil defence that once existed has slowly but surely either fallen into oblivion or been deliberately dismantled. It is worth pointing out that in the next five years military defence will receive reinforcements of 10.2 billion, no new funds have yet been provided for civil defence and its planning. I am convinced that, once the fogs have been dispersed after the decision to focus, the government intends to return to the way in which civil defence is to be built and financed. The Secretary of Defense urged me not to get caught up in individual words as a modern total defense. Madam President, I would like I live in the belief that every word in the answers given to interpellations in this House is weighed on a golden scale. Therefore, I wonder if the Minister for Defence can see any differences in the total defence that we are now going to build and the total defence that we once had. Then I asked a clear question about the Armed Forces' defence planning. In his reply, the Minister for Defence says to me that this is a starting point. My question is this: is it the starting point, or is it a starting point among several others? I believe that it is essential that it is clarified. Finally, I have noted how responsibility is shared between the Minister for Defence and the Minister for Home Affairs in terms of emergency preparedness, civil defence, military defence and, finally, total defence planning. Nevertheless, I am obliged to ask the Minister for Defence again: how does the Minister of Defence view the possibility of achieving coordinated governance and planning of total defence with such a division of labour? Is there reason for the government to consider how the tasks have been distributed among the various ministers?
i-972bd42053d3e9d5-184	Madam President, I would like I told you not to get caught up in the word. When we did the preparation and I participated in this, I assumed that this is a description of how we started with a situation where we have great potential for improvement. Some of the experience from other areas I can say: You can usually not just copy what was once, but it's about finding a model that fits the time that we now live in – thus not saying that everything you did then was bad or wrong. We have to take what can be transferred and then develop new ones. I guess that's what I'm putting into this formulation. I think it's a bit important in these contexts that we are precise and don't turn too much with different concepts, so I want to read from my answer: The Government decides on instructions to the Swedish Armed Forces for defence planning, where a number of planning assumptions describe the nature of the crisis and war situations that Sweden may face. These planning assumptions form a basis for civil defence planning. ..................................................... In addition, coherent planning for total defence should be ensured through planning instructions to the relevant authorities. It is also stated in the specialization proposal: a framework for planning is also set according to which resources are available. In this way, a comprehensive governance of the planning of total defence is created. It covers a breadth that, so to speak, weighs into society, in a broader whole than just the defence sector. That is the exact starting point and the wording of the orientation proposal. When it comes to how we are going to proceed and whether the division of labour is right or not, I can only say that we have the division of labour that is now set up, and where the Minister for Civil Affairs is responsible for the civilian part, while I am responsible for what stands for supporting the Armed Forces and the military capability. Here it is about working across a wide field and through planning instructions clear out that task. The basis for the planning instructions is what has been explained in the bill. It is, like, the basis for our future work. This is a broad task. Here we have emergency preparedness tasks that have been ultimately demonstrated through the efforts made in Västmanland, where civil crisis preparedness efforts were made but also took on resources from the Swedish Armed Forces. There are many things that can go in each other when we present an organization that holds a whole in society. Here there may be many revaluations that need to be done. With regard to the actual planning of the conditions of war and the demands on defence in this context, the idea of total defence is to have a mobilisation of the whole of society precisely in order to be able to cope with such a crisis situation.
i-972bd42053d3e9d5-193	Madam President, I would like I think that the Secretary of Defense is now giving a helpful answer. I believe that he will be based on the overall defence planning that existed while we still had a civil defence and civil defence planning. I think it is extremely wise to do so and then add to it if difficulties have arisen – and indeed it has, Madam President. Only in recent months have we been able to see in the media that the so-called paper recipes in pharmacies are now being abolished in Sweden and that it will be a completely IT-based phenomenon in the future. What this means in terms of vulnerability can be considered for a long time. It can also be taken of the fact that in this country we are increasingly using cash in carrying out transactions of various kinds. What does it mean for our technical systems to go down? Will we be able to maintain a commerce? Will people be able to buy their supplies in the usual way? There are many challenges and many question marks here. Then the Minister for Defence says – and reads again from his written reply – that it is these exact wordings that should be based on. But, Madam President, it will not be helped. However, they seem rather unclear. What should be the starting point? Is it the Armed Forces' defence planning, or is it other things? Madam President, I would like The Committee on Defence, after the decision has been taken, will, during this autumn and part of the spring, focus precisely on civil defence and crisis preparedness. Those who have listened to this debate may understand the need to do so.
i-972bd42053d3e9d5-197	Madam President, I would like I can only say this: no matter how you follow up on a matter – it is well-lucky that you do so on the part of the committee – we can see that we have a massive line ahead of us and that there is much else to be desired by former officials in these contexts, which we now have to try to repair. We also have an environment that requires us to deliver in different ways. I am pleased and happy with the agreement that exists. As far as I am concerned, I will do all I can to implement the various ambitions set out in the orientation decision. It is the only road map for the future that we have right now that can contribute something constructive and positive. If we release that map, we find ourselves in a very difficult situation and are back to square one. It is important to note that there are no funds allocated for this particular part. That is why it is also necessary in an initial phase to take stock of what resources there really are in society as a whole, how we use them and how we move forward. Then we will have to come back to a discussion on the economic conditions for this. It is clear that none of this in the long run – I do not put it into a precise time perspective – will be able to be driven only on the means that we have today, but we must somehow deal with those issues as well. We must have planning, we are now preparing in the Government Office decisions with planning instructions, and I hope that we will be able to clarify them as soon as possible and come back with a report to Parliament and the committee.
i-972bd42053d3e9d5-201	Madam President, I would like Fredrik Schulte has asked me why the 2016 budget does not contain an analysis of how household disposable income is affected by government policies, how much of households will see their disposable income increase or decrease in 2016 and whether I believe it should be in the interest of democratic dialogue that the government is transparent and transparent in presenting the effects of its own policies. The claim that the 2016 budget does not contain an analysis of how household income is affected is incorrect. On p. 18 in car. 2 a table showing how the different income groups are affected on average. Income groups are based on equivalised income, which takes into account the disposable income of the total household. The analysis for different income groups is also done using exactly the same method as in previous budget proposals and in accordance with international practice. Furthermore, Fredrik Schulte has interpreted the table in the budget proposal in the wrong way. It is not possible to draw conclusions from this on how many people receive higher or lower incomes. In each income group there are people who receive a higher disposable income, receive a lower disposable income or are not affected at all. What is shown is the average for the income group. The average reduction in disposable income for an income group does not mean that everyone in the income group receives it. It is therefore wrong to claim that 60% will have a lower economic standard as a result of changes in taxes and transfers. Estimates show that about 60 percent get an unchanged or higher economic standard and that about 40 percent get a lower economic standard. An analysis of disposable income at individual level regardless of household effects results in approximately two out of ten receiving a higher, three out of ten receiving a lower and five out of ten receiving an unchanged disposable income.
i-972bd42053d3e9d5-206	Madam President, I would like We have a government that has now presented perhaps the most left-wing budget that Sweden has seen in 25 years. There is no other country in the Western world where the last quarter of the century has presented such large-scale tax increases without budgetary justification. For purely ideological reasons, the government has presented a budget as left-wing as we now see on the table of the Swedish Parliament. These are tax increases of SEK 154 billion over four years and increased expenditure of nearly SEK 200 billion over the same period of time. Madam President, I would like Not all these tax increases go to health care, school and care. It is less than 25 percent of the government's efforts that go to health care, school and care. Most of it goes to subsidies, subsidies and labour market policies that lock people into exclusion. This policy has been strongly criticised by the Institute for Economic Development, which believes that this leads to fewer jobs. It has been criticised by the Council of Finance Ministers. It has even been criticised by the trade unions. Some of the Social Democrats' own party friends say that the kind of tax increases that are now being brought forward are not justified. This policy has also been criticised by industry. In an opinion poll it turns out that only 5 percent of the Swedish people believe that government policy creates more jobs – 5 percent. There is a great deal to say about this budget. But what this debate is about, and which is why I put this interpellation to the Minister for Finance, is how much of the Swedish people are losing out on this economic policy. It is quite clear that if taxes are raised by 154 billion over four years, someone will have to pay this. The simple guideline, which does not say everything, is that everyone who earns more than SEK 23 000 is a loser on Magdalena Andersson's budget. Everyone who gets up in the morning, works and labors and contributes to Swedish welfare and has an income of more than 23 000 SEK a month loses on Magdalena Andersson's budget. But the interesting thing is that if you look up the budget, there is a breakdown analysis of approximately which income groups win and lose. If you divide society into ten different groups depending on how much the different groups earn, on average six out of ten groups lose. I agree with the Minister for Finance that this does not mean that 60% of the Swedish people lose. But it is a fairly clear indicator that there is a large group of people who are huge losers in government policy. But what is absolutely most interesting, after all, is that in the previous budget presented by Magdalena Andersson there was a breakdown of how this hits households. Even if an individual can gain from this budget, this person may be married to someone who loses even more, so that the household fund overall goes back on government policy. This information has been leaked to the media from the Ministry of Finance. This points to an average of eight out of ten income groups losing out on Magdalena Andersson's policy. Then the question is why this is not included. We may differ in substance, but why can the Minister of Finance at least not bear the consequences of his policy and that it affects a large proportion of those who work in this country?
i-972bd42053d3e9d5-216	Madam President, I would like I'll give you some information. On p. 18 in car. 2 there is a breakdown over the level of the impact of the budget on households. I will say, however, that just as was the case when previous governments have indicated this type of distributional effect, not all reforms are included. That is why we do not see the effect of all the reforms, but only of those that are included in the model. So there are limitations to this way of counting, which I think is important to be transparent with. There is no difference between this government and the previous government, but it is about the opportunities that can be brought into these tables with different reforms. Fredrik Schulte says that everyone loses when we get better welfare. There I have a different view. For example, if a budget reduced taxes and reduced welfare substantially – if all schools were closed and taxes reduced as much – this model would look like everyone was a winner. Of course, that is not the case. That is why, as Fredrik Schulte says quite correctly, this budget means that we are raising some taxes. It is clear that those with higher incomes can contribute to this. But we're using the money for something. We use the money to give children better education in school and to get a more equal school so that all children get the support they need in school. We spend money on children getting better Fritis. Therefore, all children are on fritis winners in this budget. All our young people who go unemployed are winners on this budget. The long-term unemployed who have the opportunity to get to work are winners e. Everyone who rides trains is a winner because we invest more in railway maintenance. Everyone who is homeless is a winner because we are investing heavily in building more homes in the country. All older people are winners because we invest in elderly care and also lower taxes for our pensioners. Therefore, society as a whole is the winner of this budget. But if you just look at the taxes, but not all the tax changes are in these tables, you can say you're losers. But my assessment is that society is a winner, not because it removes all schools and lowers taxes, but because we strengthen schools so that all children get the support they need.
i-972bd42053d3e9d5-220	Madam President, I would like There is much to say not only about the government's policy but also about how Magdalena Andersson is so systematically trying to move the debate to something other than what it should be about, that is, how many people lose out on this policy, and trying to paint a picture that the Moderates would like to advocate major cuts in welfare. We are also investing in welfare. The welfare has received more money. Health care, school and care have received considerably more money during our time in power. We want to continue with that. I think that 10 out of the billions in the government budget that is being invested are good investments. These are investments in school, care for the elderly and health care. That is very positive. The problem, Minister of Finance, is that it is only a quarter of all the SEK 154 billion that you raise taxes with. So 75% goes to subsidies, subsidies and inefficient labour market policies. Don't stand here in Parliament's pulpit, Magdalena Andersson, and try to show that your politics does something else than it does! It's a subsidy policy. I think it is good that we continue to invest in school and health care. We in the Moderates do a little different priorities. Instead, we would have liked a ten - year primary school. We would have liked to see more mathematics education in school. You're making some other priorities at the school. Basically, we all agree that the school needs more resources. What this is about is how many people actually lose out on your economic policy. What I wrote in the question I put to the Minister for Finance was: According to Table 26 of p. 18 of the budget proposal, six out of ten income groups are on average losers in politics. The Minister for Finance then goes up in the speaker's chair and says that she just wants to inform Fredrik Schulte that on p. 18 in Table 26 there is this and so. Yes, that is what my question was about. The problem is, Minister of Finance, you removed another table. There should be two tables, a table showing how it falls out for the individuals and a table showing how it falls out for households. It may well be that a person earns from the budget as an individual but is married to someone who loses even more, which means that the household fund overall goes backwards. That's what the Minister of Finance is trying to cover up. The Minister of Finance was involved with this a year ago, when she made the 2015 budget, but now for 2016 she does not have that table. That's kind of strange. I put the question just like that, and the Minister for Finance still goes up in the speaker's chair and tries to paint a picture of the table indeed being included. Yeah, but I'm talking about another table. There must be two tables – one for individuals and one for households. This is how one gets a comprehensive picture of the outcome of the economic policy proposed by the government. However, it does not offer Magdalena Andersson. As by chance, this leaked out from the Ministry of Finance. The finance minister's own officials have thus put the knife in her back and leaked the table to Svenska Dagbladet. It points to the average loss of eight out of ten households from government economic policies – an average of eight out of ten households. We can argue whether 50, 60 or 40 percent of the Swedish people lose on government policy, but the point is that many lose. Those who lose are those who work, i.e. those who get up in the morning, work and pay taxes. In addition, the money is mainly used to increase contributions.
i-972bd42053d3e9d5-231	Madam President, I would like I'm so sorry, but Fredrik Schulte is actually wrong. In the case of households, it is exactly the same table in this budget as in the previous budget, and it is the same table used by previous bourgeois governments. The individual level has not been presented in either this budget, the previous budget or budgets during the time Fredrik Schultes's party was in power. The figures for the individual level do not usually come out from the Ministry of Finance, but since Fredrik Schulte has asked about this, I have openly and transparently explained how it looks at the individual level – if that's what Fredrik Schulte is asking for. However, as I said, this has not been stated in previous budgets either. If we look at the individual level, two out of ten people receive higher disposable income. Three out of ten receive lower disposable income, and five out of ten receive unchanged disposable income. But, once again, these figures should also be included with a pinch of salt, as well as other figures, because not all reforms can be brought down to the basis used to produce the figures. That's how it is for me, and so it was for my predecessor, who was a party friend with Fredrik Schulte. For example, Fredrik Schulte mentioned that he thinks it is good that we invest in the school. The big investment we make at the school, which by the way is also not visible in this table, is the Moderates and Fredrik Schulte against. It's about the big teacher wage initiative the government is doing. It means that 60 000 teachers will be able to get a raise of up to $1,000 a month. The big school investment we make in the government budget is thus Fredrik Schulte and other Moderates against. Here we have a fundamental ideological difference. We Social Democrats think it is justified to charge taxes so that all children in Sweden can get a really good school. All children should receive the support they need. We're going to have a compensatory school so that whoever has parents who can't support you will get more support in school than the one who has parents who can support you. We see how the teacher situation is – many teachers will retire, and many teachers will leave the profession. Many teachers do not feel motivated, and few young people seek teacher training. That is why we want to invest in teachers so that those in school will feel seen, so that more young people will go to teacher training and so that our children and young people get really good teachers. This is the Moderates against. Why don't you want to bet on the teachers? Now Fredrik Schulte will say that they want to invest in first teacher services, but that is a minimal investment in relation to the proper and substantial teacher salary lift the government does. Your investment is about a few hundred million SEK, while we are investing 3 billion. We are doing this because the Social Democrats and the Social Democratic and Environmental Party government care about the school. We care about the children, and we want young people to have a good start in life. For the Moderates, however, tax cuts take precedence over everything.
i-972bd42053d3e9d5-237	Madam President, I would like Magdalena Andersson, like so many other Social Democrats, tries to paint a picture of a conflict regarding whether we should have a welfare state in Sweden or not. It's not like that. The Moderates want to invest in welfare, and we propose to invest in the school in particular. We do it in a slightly different way, because we do not believe in destroying the Swedish model in the way Magdalena Andersson tangade. We should not have a system in which politicians sit and say that a certain group of teachers should serve this and so much, but the social partners should decide. That is why, among other things, we are critical of precisely the investment in the School Finance Minister is presenting. Instead, we want to say this: We need a special career path for the best and most skilled teachers. The best and most skilled teachers should be able to make a lot of money. We will attract talented, competent and clever people to become teachers, and this is done by specializing in those teachers who are absolutely sharpest. It is our model for how we will eventually get a better school. Then we also want to invest in more mathematics education in school and in a ten-year primary school. These are things that the Minister of Finance is not at all involved in. However, we fundamentally agree that we should invest in school and in welfare. The problem, Madam President, is that that is not where the money goes. Magdalena Andersson raises taxes by SEK 154 billion, and 75 per cent of them go to grants and subsidies. 75 per cent go to, among other things, raising unemployment benefits for those who do not work so that it becomes less profitable to work. Everyone who works loses. The old people who want to work a little longer lose, and those who are far from the labour market and need simple jobs lose. 1 million income earners lose – soon to say everyone who works loses. That's where the conflict lies. We agree on welfare; that's the welfare society you want to re-establish, Magdalena Andersson.
i-972bd42053d3e9d5-242	Madam President, I would like Fredrik Schulte says that we agree to bet. There is only one problem: Fredrik Schulte does not have funding for his investments. That's why there won't be any real bets. You can tell that you want to bet on the school, Fredrik Schulte, but you do not actually have the money because you are not prepared to charge the taxes needed for us to have a really good school. It's me, and it's this government. There is a deep ideological dividing line in Swedish politics. You're talking about subsidies and subsidies. One big investment we make is that of long-term unemployed young people. We do not think that young people should go unemployed month in and month out and sit in front of the TV and computer game. It's not a good way to start your adult life. We think that all young people should work or study, and therefore we make an extensive and expensive investment in the form of the 90-day guarantee. It means that no young person should have to go idle for more than 90 days. It costs money, and it requires us to raise taxes. I am prepared to do so, because I think it is important that young people get a good start in life. That is why I want to bet on school, and that is why I want to bet on young people who are not in work. For me, it's more important than low taxes. I also hope that Fredrik Schulte will read the tables properly before his next interpellation so that we do not need to have more interpellation debates based on Fredrik Schultes's private misconceptions.
i-972bd42053d3e9d5-246	Madam President, I would like Aron Modig has asked me how I believe that Sweden's ability to compete successfully in the global economy is affected by the proposed tax increases on education, entrepreneurship and hard work. As I replied to Aron Modig when he asked the same question last year, Sweden's competitiveness depends on a variety of factors. The design of the tax system is a factor. What the tax revenue is used for is another. The quality of infrastructure and education, for example, is central to Swedish competitiveness. It is therefore misleading to look at an individual tax change, without the policy having to be seen as a whole. Furthermore, excessive income gaps risk undermining trust and cohesion in society. In this respect, income gaps have widened more in Sweden than in any other OECD country. At the same time, international comparisons show that Sweden has fallen in ranking in terms of competitiveness in recent years. Because of the many unfunded tax cuts of the previous government, we have a large budget deficit. Important investments in infrastructure and training, for example, must therefore be fully financed. Against this background, the government has presented a budget without unfunded tax cuts but with important investments in infrastructure and training and with a good distribution profile. Seen in a broader perspective and as a whole, I am therefore convinced that the government's policy will bring better conditions for productive activity in Sweden and thus increase competitiveness in the Swedish economy.
i-972bd42053d3e9d5-250	Madam President, I would like As in the previous debate, we are all in complete agreement on the importance of education for a strong economy and a strong growth in prosperity in Sweden. As I said in the previous debate, I therefore find it sad that the government chooses to reject the various initiatives that we Moderates put forward and want to look at the Swedish school and which is research-based. The most important efforts to get a good school are about starting school much earlier. Sweden is one of the countries in the Western world where students are most recently enrolled in school. That is why we think it is reasonable to start early in preschool so that we get a ten-year primary school. We must also have more teaching time, especially in mathematics. There are Swedish students behind. Therefore, we want to invest more in more hours in mathematics education. Research clearly shows that the more hours you spend in school, the better the outcome. Now that we agree on the importance of education and on the impact on competitiveness, we must also be able to look at what other things are that affect competitiveness. That's where the treasure matters. It is not the only and absolutely decisive factor, but it matters. The government is now proposing a substantial increase in marginal taxes for 1 million income earners in Sweden. This means that it will reduce the interest and incentives for these people to work longer. For some income groups, the marginal tax rate will be up to 80%. Consider, for example, a doctor who makes $5,000 a month. He or she will, if he or she works an hour overtime, be allowed to keep for every hundred dollars only. Then the question is: Will this doctor who is working and working and has a pretty tough job be able to work an extra hour when he loses 80 percent in tax? No, of course it will mean working fewer hours. This view is not an opinion that only I stand here preaching, but this is entirely in agreement with the economic research elite. I think the Finance Minister should call one of his party friends and former Finance Minister, Kjell-Kjell-Olof Feldt, who made a cross-block agreement on the tax system to push down marginal taxes precisely to encourage more people to work more. High marginal taxes also mean that people will be less interested in education and less interested in investing in career, because you get to keep quite little of the extra salary that you get from working and working hard and training. Moreover, society is changing. We are becoming increasingly globalised. And today's young people are quite different from Magdalena Andersson's generation. When Magdalena Andersson went to school, the idea of perhaps moving abroad was not so topical; it was quite far away. Today, many people dream of leaving Sweden to study and work in London, New York or Shanghai and so on. And if Sweden has very high marginal taxes, so that the sharpest entrepreneurs and the best guys and girls feel that they can earn a lot more money elsewhere, then they will move.
i-972bd42053d3e9d5-259	Madam President, I would like Aron Modig is asking me the same question as he did last year in an almost identical interpellation. It is precisely about the higher marginal taxes. From the Social Democrats' side, we have been clear for a long time that we believe that we should be able to step up the job tax deduction somewhat for those who have a high income. For example, if you earn 51,000 dollars a month, you get a tax increase of 30 dollars a month with the proposal that we are now making. We phase out the job tax deduction for those with millions of income. Our assessment is that if you have a million-dollar income you may not need a job tax deduction to go to work in the morning. We then spend this money on urgent investments. It is clear that it would have been very much better if we had been able to take over public finances in a better condition, so that we would not have had to finance our investments crown for crown. Unfortunately, however, it is now that regime that is needed because the previous government left behind large budget deficits.
i-972bd42053d3e9d5-263	Madam President, I would like No, I don't think high-income people need a job tax deduction to go to work either. But if it is the case that you only get to keep 20 percent of the extra income you get from working an extra hour, why on earth would the high income taker do that? Why would the doctor who works 40 hours a week in a hectic health care clinic work a few hours extra when there is a shortage of staff to help the Swedish healthcare system when the person can only keep 20 crowns of each extra hundred? This is exactly the argument. No one imagines that high-income people will suddenly say: No, now I'm ignoring this. I'm not going to work anymore. What it's all about is the marginal tax hitting so hard on extra hours worked. In this way we will have a situation where Sweden goes back to where we were in the 80s, when the interest in doing that little extra effort is not there. This is something that Magdalena Andersson's party friend and former Minister of Finance Kjell- Olof Feldt signed up to a hundred percent. I think she should call in old party friends and representatives Kjell-Kjell-Olof Feldt, so he can explain what was the background to the Social Democrats reducing marginal taxes 20 years ago. Finally, I just have to say something about this with budget deficits. We fully agreed that Sweden should borrow money. The Alliance wanted to lower taxes. The Social Democrats wanted to burn that money on increased subsidies when we agreed on the size of the loan.
i-972bd42053d3e9d5-267	Madam President, I would like I'm gonna have to apologize so much for being a little slow around here. I also know that Fredrik Schulte does not have the opportunity for more posts, so I will try to stay on the mat. One thing I think there is reason to note in this debate, as in many other debates in this House, is that there is an overbelief that if you just lower taxes people work more, produce much more and become society absolutely wonderful to live in. I dare to say that we have heard this in debate after the debate that we have had on both the activities of the Committee on Finance and the activities of the Committee on Taxation. Yet it was not possible to ensure that unemployment, long-term unemployment and, above all, youth unemployment could be kept down at a reasonable level during their government years. Is that not strange, Madam President? Fredrik Schulte mentions Kjell-Kjell-Olof Feldt. Yes, part of the so-called wonderful night was the reduction of marginal taxes. But something else was done. The VAT base was broadened. For example, there was VAT on rents, as it had not been before. There was 25 per cent VAT on almost all goods and services. It has since been gradually lowered by various governments. It's been a pretty big jungle. There was also some agreement in the agreement on the need to have other tax bases, such as property tax and property tax. This was also supported by Kjell-Kjell-Olof Feldt. Moreover, he has been out in the debate from time to time and said that it might not be wise to abolish property tax from a strictly economic perspective. Then there may be political perspectives on abolishing property tax, and it may be politically complicated to re-impose a property tax. I think we're a lot of people who sign up for that. But if you want to explain what Kjell-Kjell-Olof Feldt thought then you have to explain what he thought straight through and not just stand here and say that it was marginal taxes that were the problem. It's a fairly broad group of people that I hang out with, but I've never heard anyone, however much moderate it has been, as I said: No, I probably don't care to work that extra hour, because I make so little money on it. I have never heard that view, at least not in the circles in which I move. And I can promise Fredrik Schulte that it is not only at the meetings of the working-class municipality that I socialize with people. I have a much wider circle of acquaintances than that. Fredrik Schulte says a lot about many who wish to move abroad. However, I have still not heard of anyone, at least not one of the young people referred to, who is doing so in order to obtain lower taxes. This is because you want to develop, get a better education, get a better job, and sometimes out of curiosity. That's why you're moving abroad. You may want more adventure before you settle down, form a family and live another life. I think it is important to make these points in the rather one-sided tax debate that is currently taking place.
i-972bd42053d3e9d5-275	Madam President, I would like As a matter of fact, I would like to say that the tax change that is taking place as we step up the job tax deduction means a 3% increase in marginal tax. It may sound a little more dramatic when listening to Fredrik Schulte. For those who earn 51,000 months, this means a tax increase of 30 kroner a month. Fredrik Schulte says that he believes that this means that people will not be educated. I find it very difficult to believe that a marginal tax change of 3% will affect young people's choices between studying or not. I think there are some other factors that govern whether or not you choose to go on to higher education, for example what kind of job you want. In fact, I believe that the margin tax currently in place affects young people's choice of studies on a rather small scale. On the contrary, we have now seen more young people seeking higher education than ever. Fredrik Schulte believes that the marginal effect is extremely important for how much you work. Very many people in this wage group already have a 100% marginal effect when they work because they do not receive overtime compensation – which also applies to Fredrik Schulte. But if Fredrik Schulte now believes that the marginal effect is extremely crucial because if you spend an extra hour of work or not, then of course you ask yourself why Fredrik Schulte himself, with 100 percent marginal effect, spends so much time on interpellations.
