i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-2	Mr President, I would like to Tina Ghasemi has asked me what makes me think that a youth guarantee such as the one that existed in the 1990s and that has received so much criticism would work 25 years later. She has also asked whether I do not find it difficult to make changes in social security contributions for young people before the government has any concrete measures that can actually create more jobs for young people and increase incentives for businesses to hire more. Let me begin by saying that the high level of youth unemployment is one of the government's top priority labour market policy challenges. Young people should not be long-term unemployed. The government is convinced that success in the fight against youth unemployment requires broad mobilisation and interaction between the social partners, municipalities and county councils, private business and civil society organisations. The composition of unemployed young people is different today than before. The proportion of pupils not eligible for a national programme in upper secondary school has increased. The academic year 2013/14 was 13.1 per cent. In 2011, only 63 and 7 per cent of those who started upper secondary education received a upper secondary school degree or a diploma within three years. The low throughput impairs young people's ability to enter the labour market or move on to further studies. In order for more young people to start and complete upper secondary education, the government has decided on guidelines for the investigation An attractive upper secondary education for all (dir. 2015:31). The Youth Job Guarantee introduced in 2007 by the previous government has been lined with major problems. Young people have had to wait three to six months to get access to measures from the Employment Service, and well in the job guarantee few young people have received measures that correspond to their full range of jobs. The government intends to gradually introduce a 90-day guarantee for unemployed young people. This aims to set a lower limit on how long a young person can be unemployed, before being offered a job, an effort leading to a job or an education or training. This limit shall be progressively reduced to 90 days. The guarantee will consist of existing labour market policies for unemployed young people including new trainee jobs and training contracts. In December 2014, a delegation was appointed with the mission to promote public and municipal cooperation and the development of new forms of cooperation, the Delegation for Young People to Work. The delegation will work to increase the impact of labour market policies on youth unemployment at local level. The criticism of previous municipal youth programmes and the Youth Guarantee in the 1990s was that young people lost contact with the Employment Service and that there were significant regional differences in the implementation of the two programmes. The current 90-day guarantee is based on cooperation between Arbetsförmedlingen and the municipal sector in the implementation of the guarantee and that Arbetsförmedlingen follows young people closely. Trainee jobs are introduced in the welfare sector and lack of jobs as a form of subsidised employment. The target group is unemployed young people aged 20-24. The employment shall be combined with vocational training in the field of employment. Training contracts are another important part of the 90-day guarantee for unemployed young people now being introduced. Education contracts aim to enable unemployed young people aged 20-24 to study in municipal adult education or in folk high school with the aim of completing upper secondary education. Within the framework of the contract, it shall be possible to study on a full-time or part-time basis. If the studies are conducted on a part-time basis, they must be combined with work, work experience or other action in labour market policy activities. A prerequisite for the education contract is local collaboration between Arbetsförmedlingen and the municipality. As regards the abolition of social security contributions for young people, studies from, inter alia, the Institute for Labour Market and Education Policy Evaluation, IFAU, show that the reduction has generally had little impact on employment relative to its cost. The government believes that resources should instead be directed at young people who are far from the labour market. In 2014, the unemployment rate among young people aged 20 to 24 without upper secondary general school education was good 40 per cent. In addition, there is a group of young people who are neither working nor studying and who are completely excluded from the labour market, in some cases for several years. In this group too, there are young people in need of support. For these young people, the Government's initiatives in the 2015 spring bill on more educational places in areas such as municipal adult education, educational contracts and trainee jobs are very important. In addition, the Government decided in June 2015 on a directive to a coordinator for young people who are neither working nor studying (Dir. 2015:70).
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-11	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Ylva Johansson for his answer. However, I am concerned. You want to introduce a 90-day guarantee as a solution to how to overcome youth unemployment. It feels both irresponsible and thoughtless. You tried this in the 1990s, then under the name of the development guarantee. When the Institute for Labour Market and Education Policy Evaluation evaluated the guarantee in 2002, it turned out that the effect was zero. Municipalities that did not introduce the guarantee even had lower unemployment than those who did. Nevertheless, it is one of the few labour market policies that the government has as its solution to tackle unemployment. Actually, it's not fair to the young generation. As a government, you have a duty to conduct a responsible employment policy. I may be in favour of recycling, but not when it comes to bad political proposals. But it is not only a question of dusting up old and ineffective political proposals, but also of all your breaches of your promises to the electorate. In the run-up to the elections, the Social Democrats stated that the 90-day guarantee for young people would be the first government decision that S would take when you formed a government. Thus, the government would take a decision on this over a whole year ago. But we know it hasn't happened. Recently you, Ylva Johansson, stated that the 90-day guarantee may be in place first for the 2018 election – a breach of promise. The 30,000 trainee posts you signposted before the elections have been reduced to modest 3 200, which is 26 800 fewer than was promised. It's also a vow breach. At present, the question is whether there will be any trainee services at all. I think there are many of us who feel a lack of promise after a lack of promise. Things you say you should do, you don't. Things you say you shouldn't do, you do. One of the few electoral promises actually made by the left-wing government is the tax shock on youth jobs. In the spring budget, the government decided to raise employers' contributions for young people, which is a severe blow to young people's job opportunities. New figures from the Swedish Parliament's investigation service show that the government's policy is hitting young people's opportunities for jobs around the country. The increased costs of raising the employer's contribution correspond to 50 000 full-time jobs. Thousands of jobs are thus at risk of disappearing as a result of Stefan Lövven's and the government's policies. While we in the New Moderates are putting forward proposals to make it easier for young people to get their very first job, the government is moving in the opposite direction and triples employers' contributions for them. For each young employee, this means an increased cost of SEK 40,000 a year. Making it more expensive to hire does not lead to more people getting jobs – quite the opposite. Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, there is only one guarantee in the government's so-called employment policy, and that is that jobs will be reduced when you make it more expensive to hire, halve the RUT deduction and reduce the ROT deduction. The list can be made long. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Labour Ylva Johansson the following: what makes the Minister for Labour think that the Youth Guarantee, which has been widely criticised in the past, could work 25 years later? I also wonder whether the Minister for Employment does not find it difficult to make changes in social security contributions for young people before the government has any concrete measures that can actually create more jobs for young people and increase incentives for businesses to hire more.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-22	Mr President, I would like to To Ylva Johansson I want to say: Well, let's start again – a new semester with new good approaches and many ideas. We have not yet seen the government's budget, and we have heard some news. It will be exciting to see, for example, when it comes to the 90-day guarantee, how much money you spend on this. The approach is very strong, and you think you should get many people in employment or education. It is clear that this is one of our greatest challenges. I agree with what the Minister for Labour said in his reply that no youth should be long-term unemployed. We fully agree on that. Maybe it's the tools we don't fully agree on. It is said that the Youth Guarantee will cost 5 - 6 billion. Then I wonder how much it will be per youth. How much will each job or place of education cost? I also wonder who will be eligible for this type of action. Should you force young people into this – to enter the municipal sector and, for example, to work in the care of the elderly – or should they have actively applied for a job in order to be eligible? Are there any requirements, or will it apply to everyone? I read in Göteborg-Posten yesterday about a company that offered 100 new jobs but did not get a single applicant. They went to Arbetsförmedlingen in June, and they have not yet received any applicants. Then you are horrified because there is so much youth unemployment. Maybe it's about 140,000 young people. The company does not require training and no experience, but the applicants receive training at work. They will receive a collective agreement salary. Then you wonder what the problem is. Why aren't they looking for jobs? We probably don't have the answer here today, but I reacted to what the Public Employment Service's official said. The rules say that the unemployed who receive unemployment benefit are obliged to seek work actively and that the Employment Service is obliged to inform the cashier if this does not happen. Now not all these young people may have unemployment benefits, but still. Don't you have to look for certain jobs? It is, of course, vital that the Employment Service should provide all the vacancies available to the young people who are unemployed. We cannot, of course, put them in the sort of measures that the Youth Guarantee will provide, i.e. trainees in the public sector and in the municipal sector. This may well be a good thing, but it cannot be a measure whereby those who are already on their knees in care for the elderly and others will be able to solve youth unemployment. So what does the Minister do to ensure that the Employment Service actually communicates all jobs and gets young people into the jobs that exist? This applies in particular to jobs that do not require training. That's a question. I would also like to ask who will benefit from this guarantee. Does it apply to everyone, or will it apply to some? What's it gonna cost?
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-29	Mr President, I would like to I think we should remind ourselves of the results of the policies that Tina Ghasemi and Katarina Brännström now actually received. During the eight years, the result was that school results fell like a stone. More and more young people are leaving school without sufficient skills to apply to upper secondary school, and more and more young people are leaving without a full upper secondary school degree. Youth unemployment is so high that Sweden receives EU support. Other countries in the European Union are therefore paying us because we have such high youth unemployment and because the old government was unable to solve this. The unemployment rate among young people without upper secondary school skills is 40%. This was the result of the policy that is now being praised as so incredibly successful, with reduced employers' contributions and inflexible management of the Employment Service. I find it a little sad that you end up in moderate rhetoric instead of actually caring about the problems we have to solve. Because they're big. I will answer the questions that have been asked. What is the difference– I interpret the question so – the 90-day guarantee the government is now introducing with the one in force in the 90's? Yes, we have learned from the mistakes that were actually made then. At that time the responsibility was transferred to the municipalities and did not control each individual. Now we are not doing this, but the responsibility remains with the state. It is the state that has the responsibility, but we invite the municipalities to cooperate. It is a collaboration that is now being established in 286 of Sweden's 290 municipalities, and it goes very well both in the work of seeking out every young person who is not working or studying and in the work of building sustainable structures between the municipality and Arbetsförmedlingen so that you can collaborate around young people who are far from the labour market. Is it difficult to remove a measure that is considered expensive and ineffective by the accumulated expertise and experience? This is therefore the case with the reduction in employers' contributions for young people. No, it is not difficult, especially in an upward trend when we have increased demand for young people in the labour market. Katarina Brännström wonders a little bit if we are going to force young people to work. Yeah. Young people should work or study, and if they do not, they should in any case not have any support from the Employment Service. That is what we demand: All people who can work should work, or study to acquire the skills they need to work. That is the policy of this government. We are not going to leave young people in passivity, as the old government did. It had an activity ban for young people when they signed up for the Employment Service; it would be long enough for something to happen. No, we can't afford that. Young people are going to work or study, and this government will see to it that we succeed.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-36	Mr President, I would like to I really don't understand your logic at all, Ylva Johansson. So your answer to the high youth unemployment is that you should raise the tax on jobs and raise the tax on companies to employees. You will also reuse old proposals that have already been condemned. Are these your two concrete proposals, raising taxes on jobs and re-using proposals that have already been condemned? Even the authorities are critical. During the summer we have been able to read about stinging criticisms from the Director General of the Swedish Public Employment Service. On several points, he is critical of the government's tax increases, which he considers to be detrimental to the labour market. It concerns the social security contribution for young people, the halving of the RUT deduction and a reduced ROT deduction. Moreover, the Employment Service testifies to the fact that it will take a long time before the trainee jobs start, which ultimately affects all young people and the long-term unemployed. The government's policy actually creates concern in the labour market. For example, increased employers' contributions worry the Swedish Trade Investigation Institute, and it warns of significant negative employment effects for young people. In retail trade, as well as in hotel and restaurant industries with small margins, redundancies are now taking place. Where's your job policy, Ylva Johansson? The answer cannot be that we should increase the tax on jobs and increase the tax on companies to hire, and reuse old proposals that we rejected back in the 1990s.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-40	Mr President, I would like to We have not yet seen the result of the policy of the Red-Green Government, as this year it has been governed by the Alliance's budget; that is indeed the case. We are pleased to note that unemployment has fallen slowly. So the Alliance's policy is going quite well, so I do not think the Minister for Labour should condemn it entirely. Youth unemployment has been very high for decades. This is nothing new. For the government of Persson, it was a great failure. We made it cheaper to hire young people. You're making it more expensive. It's very hard to see how there can be more jobs, real jobs. It is possible that action can be taken. Let's see if you can do it. But there will be state-paid jobs in the municipal sector instead of real jobs. So allow me to doubt some of the results. It is good that the Minister for Labour says that you will not get any support if you do not do as it has been said and that there should be some coercion in this. But I did not get an answer to what this will cost, Ylva Johansson, and how many places there will be next year. It would be quite interesting to know what we are talking about in reality with regard to the Youth Guarantee, not just fair words but what the result is actually going to be.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-44	Mr President, I would like to It is instructive to listen to Tina Ghasemi. There are two main lessons to be learned. One is that it is not a good advice to write the lines in a debate before the debate, because then it becomes a little tricky for those who listen to understand the logic of what Tina is trying to say. After all, the Minister for Labour answered the question as to what is the difference between the previous guarantee and the current guarantee. Then Tina comes up here, holds a written speech and pretends that she has not heard what the Minister for Employment has said. It's not a good combat technique; you can learn that. The second thing that can be learned from Tina Ghasemi's interpellation debate here today, Mr President, is about the danger of basing her argument on ill-founded stop lines from less talented speech writers in the Moderate Party Office. What makes me think that the Youth Guarantee, which existed in the 1990s and which has received so much criticism, would work today? This is a classic lousy stop line that some official at the Party Office has written. And it may well be that it can be used in the heat of battle at some point, but having a debate on such an ill-founded argument falls flat to the ground. With regard to the other issues of social security contributions for young people, the Minister for Labour has described how the labour market policy measure that has been invested in far over 100 billion has not worked and how all the researchers and various bodies who have looked at it have condemned it, as the Minister for Labour says, inefficient and expensive. That is, there were no more jobs for young people, but it cost a lot of money that we could have spent on something else instead. Trade ran a check on its two largest contract areas and made a report on it. They noted that when the reform on the reduction of the social security contribution for young people had been in force for a number of years, fewer young workers were employed in the two largest contract areas, and it is contract areas that employ many young people. There is therefore no evidence that this reform worked in any way for what it aimed at. It was aimed at reducing youth unemployment, but it failed. It's very important to remember. What is exciting now, of course, is to follow what is going to happen in the future, and of course we should do that in a serious debate, go ahead and see what reforms are working. We Social Democrats and the Minister for Labour are, of course, interested in such a serious debate. We had a visit to the Labour Market Committee today by the Swedish National Audit Office. They have initiated a new approach, to more proactively follow up on whether the government's draft budget can lead to the intended achievement of objectives. If you take that debate seriously, Mr President, I think it can be very exciting and interesting to follow. There I feel a very good confidence. The problem of youth unemployment has been identified as the lack of education and training, the fact that the large group of unemployed are those who do not have upper secondary skills. Now that we are putting in place measures to correct the problem, I am very pleased to take this debate and look at the follow-up in a serious way in the future.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-50	Mr President, I would like to I was actually just going to listen to this debate. But I was surprised when I heard it and want to underline what Patrik Björck says. We talk a lot about the read-write guarantee. And it is important to read the answer from the Minister for Labour. When the Minister for Labour answers Tina Ghasemi's question, both in writing and orally, I find it strange when Tina Ghasemi continues to repeat that it is the same thing the government is doing now as the previous government did. In this context, the answer to the question of the shortage of jobs in the private sector relates to cooperation with municipalities and trainee jobs. I think Katarina Brännström should read that. It is expensive to grant grants to companies in this way if it does not guarantee new jobs. The reduction in employers' contributions for hiring young people has, of course, gone to companies that have already had young employees. So it has not created new jobs. On the other hand, it has subsidised existing jobs. I have to ask Tina Ghasemi a question, because she mentions that young people would automatically be dismissed when they no longer receive financial support. Does this mean that entrepreneurs who have had employees who have reached their age – for most young people tend to have a full age and thus cross the threshold of when entrepreneurs receive the reduction in employers' contributions – have resigned all those who have become 26 and 27 years of age? What happened in the company? Or is it a well thought-out idea that you should not keep young people, that they should only be there for a short time while you have grants for them and then you should not have them left? If Tina Ghasemi now claims that she has facts on the table, which I do not think she has, she should be able to account for how many of the young people who have been laid off when they have reached their age and thus the employer has no longer received these contributions.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-56	Mr President, I would like to Tina Ghasemi has understood that politics has changed direction, and that is quite right. Now it is the end of inefficient tax cuts as the solution to all problems. It was a policy that did not solve the job issue but, on the contrary, left us with an extremely high and severe unemployment. It is a policy that has led to large deficits in Sweden. It is a policy that has led employers to find it difficult to recruit staff now that they are doing well and would like to expand. It is quite clear, Tina Ghasemi, that this is a new direction in politics. Now we are going to solve youth unemployment for real. And what's supposed to judge me and the government is reality. We should not be guided by ideological dogmas. We'll be guided by pragmatism. Whatever works, we'll keep going. What doesn't work, let's stop. What has not worked is the reduction in employers' contributions for young people. It was extremely expensive. As Patrik Björck said, more than 100 billion have been invested in a policy that has had little impact on youth unemployment. We'll take it away. Instead, we are investing in what is now being asked for, that young people should get the right skills for the jobs that exist. Those who do not have upper secondary skills should be supported to do so. To solve this, it will require interaction with employers, municipalities and employment services. Young people who do not have the appropriate skills for the occupations where the job vacancies are located are given a combination of employment and vocational training to those professions where we have a serious shortage today. One such profession is assistant nurse. This risks leading to a failure to maintain sufficient quality in welfare and care for the elderly unless we make major efforts to train more nurses. Katarina Brännström asks: What will be the result? The result will be a real solution to youth unemployment. No young person should be unemployed for more than 90 days. That is the result I shall be measured against. We will take the necessary steps to make it happen. We start with training contracts and trainee jobs, but there's a lot more in the toolbox. Above all, it is about meeting each individual individually. If we need to make adjustments, we'll do it. We will ensure that the result is nothing to be ashamed of when we meet the voters in 2018. Let us compare with the old government. The promised enormous impact of job creation contracts. It is a good method that we should continue with and a form of employment that has potential and can grow. But you have to see reality. It didn't happen at all as fast as the old government thought. Then it is important to be pragmatic and make things work properly. Mr President, I would like to The government was bound by a bourgeois budget until last spring when we were able to put our spring change budget. But I would like to say one thing: the government has never conducted bourgeois politics in the past year. The first thing that happened when I took office as Minister for Labour was that we changed the governance of the Employment Service. It is now allowed to work flexibly, not to be hard guided by deadlines, to meet individuals individually, to make efforts from the first day and to cooperate with others. It has an effect on unemployment.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-65	Mr President, I would like to First, I would like to respond to Patrik Björck's classic male rule technique. I write all my statements and speeches myself and have no political secretary to do it for me. However, if we do not want to discuss substance policy, it is easy to resort to ruling technology. I guess it's just for Patrik Björck to criticize that I'm a woman. Ylva Johansson mentions employers' contributions. The increased costs of raising employers' contributions correspond to 50 000 full-time jobs. So there are thousands of jobs that are in danger of disappearing as a result of your policy. It's a little bloated to just wave it away like an action that doesn't work. The government's solutions to current and future challenges are characterised by a large dose of nostalgia. For example, the Government's own expert body, the Council of Finance Ministers, makes the assessment that the government's policy leads to around 37,000 fewer jobs than would otherwise have been created. When you make it more expensive to hire, there will be fewer jobs, not more. The government knows that. Why else should the municipalities be compensated for the increase in employers' contributions? Ylva Johansson says no young person should go unemployed. That's great. But there are many fair words and not so much concrete. When will you carry out what you have promised? We will follow this up carefully because it is a very important issue, not least for the young generation.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-70	Mr President, I would like to Well, I guess Tina Ghasemi's gonna have to listen. It was that she wrote the lines herself that was the problem. That's what I said. The problem was that she wrote them before the debate and therefore could not take the Minister for Employment's response into the further debate. Then the debate became a little limp. That she writes them herself, I'm absolutely convinced. The problem is that she writes them before the debate, and then the debate becomes a little strange to listen to. I didn't say it was a speech writer who had written her post. I said that it is a danger to base your argumentation on ill-founded so-called stop lines from less talented speech writers at the Moderate Party Office. That's exactly how I put it. So to the point. We have reviewed the fact that social security contributions for young people have not worked. The job guarantee for young people once carried out by Tina Ghasemi's moderate government, what did it lead to? It can be a little interesting to have as a perspective. The only thing it led to was the exclusion of young people from what research says is the most important thing: early intervention. A big stick was put into the machinery and destroyed the ability of many young people to break unemployment by shutting them out of action. That is what the bourgeois guarantee really stood for.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-73	Mr President, I would like to I did not get a real answer from Tina, but perhaps it was because she had a little shorter speaking time and needed to answer the Minister for Labour. But the answer she still gave to me is that she gives me the right answer. These employers are only interested in cheap labour, and young people can quit when employers no longer receive benefits. I can't interpret it any other way. These jobs would disappear automatically when young people turned a certain number of years if no new ones were brought in below the age limit. It is unreasonable to build a society by sorting people out according to age. It's age discrimination. It is also important to ensure that young people remain at work even though they have reached a certain number of years. The reduced employer's contribution was limited to a certain age. Many of the employers mentioned by Tina Ghasemi have a system to have only young workers. Only one sector that does not intend to employ above this age limit will be subsidised. The question is: Is care for the elderly the same as hotel business? No, I don't think so.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-78	Mr President, I would like to Tina Ghasemi chooses to refer to the Council of Finance Policy but makes it a little dishonest. She refers only to the part where the Council of Finance Ministers calculates what the government's funding of the policy will have for effect, not where one looks at the impact of the government's efforts. Moreover, the Council of Finance Ministers is one of the bodies that strongly support the fact that cutting social security contributions for young people is a very inefficient and expensive measure. Mr President, I would like to You can have theoretical reasoning. The old government did. They said: If we make unemployment worse enough, we will solve unemployment. If we threaten people with phase 3, we solve unemployment. If we lower employers' contributions for young people, we solve unemployment. The problem was it didn't work out in real life. Let us remember when we are going to evaluate the policies of different governments which created the situation of record youth unemployment, which said that spending on education and real jobs would not work and which said that cutting employers' contributions was the only way. Voters can choose a government that makes great forecasts but fails with reality or a government that takes the problems seriously and that will be able to show results. I am not afraid to face voters in 2018 when it comes to youth unemployment.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-84	Mr President, I would like to Lars Tysklind has asked me what arguments I have had to make an agreement which, according to him, our own fishermen's corps is 100 % against, which will drastically undermine its economy and which includes a downward pressure on the stock of Norway lobster. The Common Fisheries Policy provides for the gradual introduction of an obligation to land all catches in the Western Sea from 2016. The fishery for Norway lobster is subject to the landing obligation from 1 January 2016. This means that all catches of Norway lobster shall be landed regardless of their size. Currently, almost half of the catches of Norway lobster are thrown back into the sea in the Skagerrak and Kattegat. This is because these catches are below the minimum landing size of 13 centimetres. By the landing obligation, the minimum landing size shall be replaced by a minimum reference size. The purpose of this minimum reference size shall be to protect juvenile Norway lobster. The minimum reference size may be determined by the European Commission together with other detailed rules on the landing obligation. It shall be based on a joint recommendation from the Member States concerned. It is therefore not Sweden that can unilaterally determine the new reference size. The government's starting point has been to maintain the current 13 centimetre measure to avoid, as the interpellant says, a risk of negative impact on the stock and to ensure the price image and profitability of Swedish crayfish. From several other sources it was argued that the reference size would be 8.5 centimetres, which is the same as in the North Sea. This was something that the Swedish government could not accept. Unfortunately, we did not manage to maintain the current measure, but the final outcome of the negotiations is a reference measure of 10.5 centimetres. The landing obligation poses a major challenge for both fisheries and management. It is a major change from the system we have today. The Government works together with the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management and the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences on these issues. We will, of course, closely monitor the effects of the landing obligation. I share Lars Tysklind's concern that this may otherwise have undesirable effects on Swedish fisheries, including after Norway lobster. The Government has also submitted a proposal to the Commission, together with the other Member States, for a high survival exemption for Norway lobster. This is something that has been asked for by Swedish fisheries. As a scientific basis for this, the government refers to a recent study from the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences. The study indicates that survival in trawl fishing can be as high as 60 – 75 percent. However, this is higher than the figures previously produced by the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea. The Swedish proposal for an exemption for survival has now been examined by the Commission's Technical and Scientific Committee. If the Commission finds that a derogation is justified, fishermen will be able to re-release Norway lobster of any size. With an exception that gives us an opportunity to re-release Norway lobster that survives, there are opportunities for Swedish professional fishing to continue to profile itself with high quality products and gentle fishing. However, I would like to emphasise that it is the Commission that makes the final assessment of whether there is sufficient scientific basis for such an exemption. I believe that there is a great deal of consensus in Sweden on these issues and that an exception for high survival would be positive. However, I can assure Lars Tysklind that when the landing obligation is introduced, we will take all necessary measures to ensure the continued sustainable management of the fishery for Norway lobster. Fishing will also continue to be limited by quotas, which will ensure that we meet the objectives of maximum sustainable yield. The government's starting point is to promote sustainable fishing and for living coastal communities.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-94	Mr President, I would like to It is very satisfying to be able to start the new parliamentary year – for your part in the speaker's chair – by discussing fisheries issues. It has its natural explanation, since I have my origins on the Bohus coast. I thank the Minister for his reply. I think that we do not really really have such a big difference of opinion, but it is more a procedural question why things become as they become. Much is about the common fisheries policy, the landing obligation and the selectivity we can have in our fisheries. Sweden and Swedish fishermen have shown that they can get quite far. It is also about the vital issue of the landing obligation or the discard ban, whatever you call it. The Minister states in a commendable way that Sweden is pushing that it should be able to release back the catch that actually survives. Both selectivity and survival are, of course, important points in the context of Norway lobster. But I am not entirely convinced that Sweden would not have been able to push this issue harder so that we would not have had to lower the minimum standard. Regardless of whether we call it a minimum measure or a reference value, I understand that the proposal and recommendations come from regional cooperation bodies. This is about the S cheveningen group. In such a group, there is a lot of consensus, and the Minister may develop further if Sweden had been able to act in a different way. What happens when you now lower the length is that you go further down the value chain and get less returns and profitability and use the biological systems harder without actually getting paid for it. That is the basic question – that you burden. In order to achieve long-term sustainable fishing, one must of course burden the system so that the greatest added value is derived from what one does. We will return in a later debate to the living coast and archipelago. If we refer to the Bohus coast again, fishing for crayfish and shrimp and shellfish at all is one of the pillars of a living coast and archipelago. You do many other things in Bohuslän too, but everything is connected. As far as the process itself is concerned, and if we really could not have pushed the matter further, I think we could have done so.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-102	Mr President, I would like to I thank Lars Tysklind and the Minister for raising the issue of fisheries and crayfish, which are important for the West Coast and its future. For many years Swedish fishing has conducted a very selective fishery and invested in quality instead of quantity, unlike our neighbour Denmark, who has always had a fishing to get raw materials for the industry. Swedish crayfish fishing means greater selectivity, and a large part of crayfish with substandard size is never taken up. On the part that is still caught, the load is much less. Fewer crayfish are squeezed to death and can then be replaced. In the Swedish selective crayfish fishery, where we had a minimum size of 13 centimetres, crayfish of substandard size have been replaced. Of these, more than 75 percent survive, which is amazing. The other week I visited the trawl binder that develops the trawls. They have continued to develop crayfish trawls, which has resulted in even fewer crayfish being caught. They pass through the trawl, and now up to 90 percent of the crayfish that are being restored. It's amazing. Swedish fisheries have constantly worked to improve the selectivity of fishing, unlike some other countries, in order to protect good stocks so that future generations can make their living out of fishing. The Danish fishermen wanted 8.5 centimetres, which they fish with in the North Sea. They asked for this in consultation with Sweden and pushed it hard. If they had got it through, it would have been a total disaster. Now it ended up at 10.5 centimetres, which is far from good. It is hardly that crayfish have reached sexual maturity. All of this they did to enable them to conduct large-scale industrial fishing where they can obtain short-term profits that threaten stocks in the long term. The reduction in the measure of crayfish goes strongly against the fishermen's and scientists and against what Sweden's own authority thinks. They can be excused in this case, for they were not even asked. The effect of the agreement with Denmark is to reduce the prices of the crayfish, which is likely to knock off many companies. The decision will also put pressure on stocks in the long term. Mr President, I would like to I know that the Minister has been and is extremely committed to the milk crisis and that large sums of money are being invested in the survival and survival of the industry. The agreement with Denmark on crayfish measures can be compared with the milk crisis. If the Minister had gone out today and said that we would lower the milk settlement price for the farmers from 2:50 to 1:90, then probably the Minister and the dairy farmer would have been able to look for another job. The effect of the reduction in the size of the crayfish is likely to have the same effect on the fisherman – but not on the Minister. The price will fall sharply. What, then, are we to do to restore order? What should be done to correct what went wrong? That's the question. Cancer with the measure agreed by the government with Denmark must not be landed in Sweden today – it is criminal. This has meant that we in Sweden have developed selective tools, marketed fresh crayfish of large size and high quality. When the decision comes into force, the smaller crayfish will squeeze the price, no matter what Swedish fishermen do. The arguments put forward by the Minister in his reply will not help the Swedish fisherman. More measures are needed.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-115	Mr President, I would like to The government is working for a greater minimum measure. I think there are also exceptions for survival, based on the same starting points that both Lars Tysklind and Jan-Olof Larsson present. We also believe that selectivity remains an extremely important issue. On the procedural issue: a joint recommendation requires agreement between all the Member States concerned. In this case, there are seven Member States. Disunity means that no recommendation at all can be made to the Commission, which then takes a decision by means of a delegated act. It is extremely important in this context to know that there are seven who are sitting there and need to find some common line in order to be able to give any recommendation at all. Otherwise, it would not have been legally possible to obtain a survival derogation which in this case concerns Norway lobster. It is also extremely important for the Commission to take such a decision, because that means that the smaller crayfish will not be deducted from the quota but can be released. One can even decide to pick up only crayfish at least 13 centimetres in size and that the rest is thrown back and not counted off the quota. The procedural question is very important. It is many times that I sit in negotiations with 27 other states in the EU context, and Sweden has one vote. Now it is about six other states, and Sweden has one vote. The negotiations are very technical. In this case, we must reach a complete agreement.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-119	Mr President, I would like to It may be right to reflect a little on the fact that there may be a very technical discussion. However, when we discuss this from a fundamental political point of view, it is about the long-term sustainable use of the sea, and I believe that we have the same starting point. The development that has taken place in Sweden has involved the development of selective tools. Under the alliance government, a number of millions were introduced to support the development of selective tools. But the driving force and the will have been in the fishermen's and the industry. Otherwise, I don't think much would have happened. There must be clear incentives to pursue such a process. We introduce carvings and select away catches that are less valuable. In this case, small crayfish are never mentioned. It was gratifying figures that Jan-Olof Larsson could now report, that survival is even greater than what we have had figures on before. This may be an argument that the Minister or the person negotiating for Sweden can take along in some other context. The great driving force behind doing this is, of course, the concern for long-term sustainable fishing. You don't like to cut off the branch on which you sit. But there are also economic arguments and economic drivers. That's what you've seen from Swedish fishing. Having a high minimum standard has made it much better paid for each crayfish that you get up. I understand what it is like in negotiating situations in which Sweden finds itself. The Minister actually describes what I might have said in a different way, that there is some kind of consensus in the regional groups in order to be able to make a recommendation. Then one country can basically have the right of veto, and then there will be no recommendation, but it is someone else who decides. I don't know how to interpret the Minister. Should I interpret this so that it is about the price that Sweden has to pay for us to be able to release living crayfish that is below the reference measure? The Minister has a further opportunity to speak, so perhaps we can find an answer to that question, if that was the argument. The question was, of course, about which argument Sweden agreed to this. It may be interesting to hear whether the argument was that we were forced to pay that price in order to get the other. The Minister has another opportunity to speak, so perhaps we can clarify that question.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-126	Mr President, I would like to The job of selectivity is, of course, undermined by lowering the minimum standard. If you call 10.5 centimetres a reference size, that is immaterial. Should there be no exception to re-release crayfish below 10.5 centimetres – or 13 centimetres, as we had before – then we no longer have a minimum measure, but then we take up everything. Then there will be no crayfish fishing for many more years, and then this debate is completely irrelevant. I feel that the Minister really thinks like we do. The best thing would be if we could have 13 centimetres as a reference or minimum measurement, but that is probably not possible. The option that the government can decide on would be a ban on landing small crayfish. If we are allowed to throw back – to put out again – we can introduce a ban on taking crayfish under 13 centimetres in Sweden. Let's say it's supposed to be a reference size of 13 centimeters. It is quite possible to have that legislation in Sweden. We can have our own rules in this area. We have this in relation to Greenland halibut, where we in Sweden are not allowed to land things that are allowed to land in Denmark and Norway. We have our own rules here, and we can do so in the case of crayfish. We can do the same in that area. If we do, I think we can make sure that the price is kept up for fishermen. We can also urge WWF to do something wise – to put the red light on the sale of small crayfish. If WWF goes out and says, "Don't buy crayfish that are under 13 centimeters, then Konsum, Ica and all other stores immediately stop that sale.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-130	Mr President, I would like to We have, with our joining the EU in 1995, a common fisheries policy. This can be priced as a negative thing in some contexts. But I think most of it is positive. We have a common fisheries policy to ensure long-term sustainable fishing. We are in common waters, whether we are in the EU or not. In this case, there is a balanced assessment. If the Commission takes a position on a derogation, it will continue to be possible to specialise in large-scale lobster without any deterioration in the quota as it does not need to land the smaller ones. It is also an incentive for higher prices of larger crayfish. There are other things here too. There is a proposal for derogations that favour fishing with the Swedish rice, among other things. It is, you might say, a balanced assessment. The best thing would have been that we could have kept 13 centimetres at the smallest size, but Sweden is lonely sometimes. I have sometimes been alone with 27 countries even. That could be the case.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-132	Mr President, I would like to We may not get much further in this discussion. I think I have got the question clarified, and I also got the answer to the last question that this was the price that Sweden had to pay. As far as the consequence of not getting this exception through is concerned, it is true, as Jan-Olof Larsson and also the Minister point out, that if this is bad it would make it even worse. I very much hope that Sweden and the Minister will be able to pursue this issue. It is not even scientific to kill catches that can be of much greater value if they are allowed to stay in the sea and be caught at a later date. This is about long-term sustainable fishing that Sweden will continue to stand up for. I think we have reason to mention in every debate that we have a fish corps in Sweden that actually also works hard on the basis of its position in order to achieve this long-term sustainable fishing.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-135	Mr President, I would like to It is important that we get this exception through. We should also remember that behind the recommendation to the Commission are now seven countries. There are strong countries among them. Germany is extremely strong in this context. We will continue to work for this on the Swedish side, and I know it will work from other countries to get this exception. If you can show even higher survival, it is good, but we have been able to relate to the research that the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences has developed where you point to up to 75 percent survival. That is strong, and if there are further strong figures, we will use it. Next year, the first step will be taken towards landing obligation in the Western Sea. We cannot say exactly how this fishing will happen, but we will be following these issues closely from the government in dialogue with our authorities and also in dialogue with our neighbours and, of course, with fishermen. I think today's debate shows that there is a strong consensus in Sweden on these issues. Thank you for a good debate!
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-138	Mr President, I would like to Lars Tysklind has asked me how I and the government, consisting of the Social Democrats and the Green Party, intend to design the system of transferable rights of use in demersal fisheries so that we can maintain a living coastline and the archipelago. In 2009, Swedish law introduced an opportunity for the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management to decide that shares of the Swedish fishing quota allocated to individual fishermen in pelagic fisheries should be transferable and valid for ten years. The Authority made use of that possibility and introduced in the same year a system of transferable fishing rights in pelagic fisheries. Following legislative changes that entered into force in autumn 2014, it shall no longer be determined by law in which fishing transferability may be introduced, but this is left to the government to decide at regulation level. The government stated in the present proposal that it did not intend to extend the transferability system until the consequences for both the fishing industry and the environment have been investigated. No such investigation has yet been carried out. Lars Tysklind therefore goes ahead of events when he asks how a system of transferable rights of use should be designed in demersal fisheries before it has been decided whether such a system is up to date. Finally, I would like to say that I share Lars Tysklind's view that fishing is an important industry and that it is important to protect a living coastline and the archipelago.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-141	Mr President, I would like to I was asked even more today by someone who had read the interpellation and the answer why we use words that no one understands. I'll give you a little word explanation. Pelagic fishing is simply the fishing carried out further up in the water layers. These include herring and mackerel, for example. Demer salt fishing is closer to the bottom, and it is about cod, shrimp, lobster and so on. That's the simple explanation. We must almost apologize for not allowing audiences of various kinds to understand what we are saying. We are talking about the living coast and the archipelago, and the last debate we had here on Norway lobster is actually a partial debate in this. The questions are related and are about how to design the systems. The basic issue at issue here is how the government intends to make use of the right of regulation that was granted with the amendments to the Fisheries Act in force from autumn 2014, I think it was in October sometime. It is exactly right that the Minister says that the Alliance Government in its bill said that it should not proceed until the consequences of what is happening have been investigated. I think we can make up for it. Then it is a little worrying that such an investigation has not been carried out. Perhaps it is time to make such a system so that we have a system that is long-term and that one can change the image of this. One experiences a threat in the industry, and that image could perhaps be changed so that one can see the opportunities and the future in this. There are an enormous number of talented entrepreneurs who want to take advantage of the opportunities available. Basically, one can say that in the fishermen's corps there is no huge longing for transferable quotas, but what you want is a functioning transmission system which, by definition, becomes necessary when we talk about a discard ban or landing obligation that will be introduced. It is decided that it should be introduced, and I think it is a good thing that we do not throw catches back into the sea. This is about the long-term regulatory framework and how the government intends to use the right that Parliament has given to make regulations on this. The alternative is to allow the authority to continue along the path it is today and resolve this a little short-term, based on the framework it has been given within the Agency for Marine and Water Management. It is important, however, that the government should in some way indicate how it stands up to this and, as I said, investigate the consequences. Fishing is so much more for the communities in question, if we link it to a living coast and archipelago. If you just count strictly on the value of how many people work in fishing, you may get lower figures than if you include what it means for the localities, not least the tourism industry and tourism. Then fishing is an absolutely crucial factor for a living coast and the archipelago. It's actually a very big question. The way in which the government acts in this context is therefore important. But in my next speech, I guess we'll hear if he's thought of anything else.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-148	Mr President, I would like to The debate on a living coast and the archipelago is important, not least for those of us who live there all year round. A living coastline also requires professional fishing. It is under pressure from all sides today, despite the fact that professional fishing carries a large part of the industry, not least tourism. But professional fishing is also important from an environmental perspective. In 2008, the bourgeois majority decided to privatise pelagic fishing, i.e. fishing for mackerel and herring, in order to reduce the number of fishing enterprises and increase profitability. In the proposal there were almost no guidelines. It often forgets Lars Tysklind and his alliance friends. But there were no guidelines. Quotas were sold. Fishing companies continued to fish in other waters. Sold quotas financed the purchase of new boats in other fisheries and more. Those who benefited from the reform say it was a success. But I have far more doubts as to whether it was successful for us taxpayers and for a living coastline. Today, a youth who would like to become a fisherman has no chance of making it economically. It costs millions and millions. Those who say it was a successful reform probably speak more on their own than from the perspective of society. This discussion concerns the rest of the fishing industry and what signals the government is going to send. I can agree with Tysklind that it is urgent. However, we must learn lessons from the privatisation of pelagic fisheries, which is not happening. Today, business is being done in demersal fisheries – the fishing of shrimp, lobster, cod and so on – as if quotas were for sale. The authorities' permission to fish for polefish, that two boats fish together, has had the consequence that boats with quotas are sold, with the authority's good memory it seems. It is widely known that this is happening. If it may continue, there will be no fishing left along the coasts. Signals must come now in the autumn of which it is clear what fishing we want to keep along our coasts. The coasts can be broken down by boat register areas, which exist today. The boats are today divided into, for example, the LL area, the Strömstad area or the Gothenburg area. Quotas could be linked to the area. It could be a suggestion. There are other suggestions. But it's important to look at the geography. The fact that different fishing companies could cooperate with quotas in these areas is, I believe, necessary with the legislation that will now come, when it comes to taking everything ashore. However, if we do not regulate how quotas are to be allocated geographically, there will quickly be a concentration of fisheries, which will then disappear from our coasts. Fishing quotas should not be a type of pension insurance. Fishing quotas are our common resources, society. What fisheries policy we want in Sweden is a political issue. It is time that we politicians took power from the officials, that we talk about and are clear about what we want with the fishing quotas, how we want it to be with fishing along our coasts. Is it supposed to be there? Or should there only be one small place outside Gothenburg, with a number of boats that take up everything? It's important that we send those signals.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-157	Mr President, I would like to There are five years left before the ten-year system is complete and may be extended. However, when the legislation was adopted, it was said that the consequences for both fisheries and the environment should be investigated before moving forward and taking a new position on the issue. I'll be very clear now, Lars Tysklind. The government does not currently have any plans to extend the system of transferable ten-year fishing rights to demersal fisheries. Any discussion on the amendment of Swedish fisheries management must, of course, address the important issues of the survival of small-scale fisheries. It's very important that we keep it in mind. When it comes to living coastal society, it is just like living countryside; there is not a single thing that acts as a quick fix. Of course, fishing is the basis and important for coastal communities, as agriculture may be for rural areas in other parts of the country. I have visited these parts of the country, including the West Coast, and I have seen how important, not least, the processing industry is. It's extremely important. And, of course, it gets its raw material from fishing. The largest raw material for the fishing industry on the west coast is herring. It may not even be fished in our country, but the industry there is still extremely important for coastal communities. It is also a matter of community services in the communities. It is about broadband expansion, about telephony to work, about ensuring that there are farmers who can provide food, food, fuel and more. There is one thing this government has really taken seriously. We have set up a parliamentary committee for a coherent rural policy in Sweden. It's never happened before. Let's get a good grip on this. Coastal communities are part of rural areas. We do not put them at the side of, as if they were not part of that policy. It was good that this interpellation came. A living coastal society is important, just as important as when we talk about rural development. Coastal communities are part of the countryside, and we shall protect them. We will find a coherent policy for them.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-164	Mr President, I would like to I do not know whether to be reassured or even more worried when I am told clearly that the government has no plans to take any action. If it's good or bad, I'll have to think about it for a while. At least I'm not sure that's a good thing. We have challenges. I mentioned in my previous speech that you feel that there is a threat, that there should be a change, a process that you are not in. It's causing concern. The fishing industry must also be able to think long-term and business-wise. So I am not quite sure that the message is very good. Like Jan-Olof Larsson, I do not think that we should create contradictions between different types of fish, different types of boats and so on. On different parts of our coasts there are different traditions for what type of fishing is conducted. In case one ventured to take any kind of action, no segment would knock out the other. I think we can agree on that. In fact, there is a market, and different geographical areas have different orientations. Jan-Olof Larsson mentioned that quotas in different size segments are changing today. Maybe that's something you could imagine. I also think that a geographical division could be withdrawn, which Jan-Olof-Olof Larsson also lifts up. It is quite clear that there are different types of fishing in different geographical areas. The state doesn't have to think it's a problem. It can also be an advantage in this context. As I said in the previous debate, there is in the fishermen's corps – perhaps in some individual fishermen – no obstinate desire to trade quotas. They want a quota system and a ration system that makes fishing profitable, and that is probably a discussion that we have to take. With regard to the landing obligation, one can have a clear system of going from weekly rations to annual rations. There's a lot to do. My basic question was how the government intends to use its jurisdiction to do something, but we have been told that. The government is not going to take any action. Nevertheless, it is a clear answer, I must admit, Minister.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-170	Mr President, I would like to We seem to be very touching on the substance of the matter. We will safeguard coastal and sustainable fishing along our coast. This has been said in this House for as long as I have been here, since 2002. Despite our touching agreement, a friend of order wonders: ‘ Why, then, are developments going in the opposite direction? Why have the measures taken by the Authority to maintain sustainable fishing along our coast had no effect? How can the trade in quotas continue in secret without a reaction from the authority? Whose business does the agency run? It is clear that there is a need for clear policy signals because they have not reached the authority. Once again, we politicians must take up the takpin on fisheries issues and ensure that our desire to have a living coastline and the archipelago also includes fisheries issues and the authorities dealing with these issues. We politicians who run this country have a responsibility to talk about what we want to achieve with politics. No one will say that it was the authority that closed down Swedish fisheries, but it will be said that we politicians did not take our responsibility. No matter who's in the government, that's what you'll say. It is gratifying to hear that we agree on the direction, although the Minister says that there should be no investigation. Of course there needs to be an investigation. We need to send clear signals to the authorities that we should have a living coastal fishing – and there the government has a united parliament behind it – and that means a geographical spread. Thank you for the debate.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-175	Mr President, I would like to I think both Jan-Olof-Olof and Lars overinterpreted me. I said that the government currently has no ambition to make such a change. If something is to be done, it must be done right, not as quickly as possible. A thorough impact assessment is needed before any further progress is made. It also requires a very close dialogue with the fishing industry, it is very important. Then let us not forget that the government has put in place a fisheries programme for the period 2014-2020. Within that programme, there are opportunities to seek funds to achieve a long-term sustainable fish stock. It is also aimed at small-scale fishing, which often has major profitability problems, as Mr Jan-Olof-Olof has mentioned. Examples of measures for which funds can be sought include community-led development of the fisheries area, differentiation within and outside the fisheries sector, further processing of products, increased added value and investment in aquaculture. So there are new opportunities that will of course have an impact on development. It must also be taken into account and seen what its effects are before moving forward. Lars, we're going to do the right thing, not as quickly as possible, and for now we're not going to do it.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-180	Mr President, I would like to I think this is going to be a bit of a general discussion. Of course, if we're going to do something, we're going to do it right. It's hard to disagree. One thing I have perhaps highlighted too little in this debate is dialogue with the fishing industry. It's absolutely crucial. That's where you should look for the solution. Many times political decisions can create contradictions that did not really exist from the beginning. Even if the fishermen's profession has different orientations, you probably don't want to knock each other out. It is respected that there are a few different traditions. This with profitability is a discussion that is often raised. If you listen to the fishermen themselves, their strongest wish is that you have to have a space to be an entrepreneur. There are those who have invested a great deal of money, but there are very many who have not done so and who still have high profitability. They make very little use of ecosystems, and they get a lot of value from what they bring up. That is what can be defined as small-scale, coastal fishing. We often get into a discussion about the length of the boats, but I do not think this is a question of how much resources are used and how they are used.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-185	Mr President, I would like to This dialogue with the industry is extremely important. I've started that dialogue. I have already had dialogue with the industry on two different occasions. Then we should not think that the nutrition has only one answer, there are several answers. Nor is there a measure that solves all the challenges facing fishing. Several measures are needed from the state, but several measures are also needed from the industry itself. I look forward to the fact that we, too, in this House, can continue to have as good and constructive dialogue as we have had today. Thank you for a good debate!
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-188	Mr President, I would like to Marie Granlund has asked me how I believe that the smuggling of war material and other weapons into the country should be combated, whether there may be a need to review and redistribute existing police resources in order to overcome recent acts of violence, and whether I and the government believe that further strengthening of arms legislation is needed to address the problem. Illegal weapons are a serious social problem and continued efforts to counter these are a priority for the government. The police and the Customs Agency have intensified their cooperation in recent years, which has resulted in, among other things, a sharp increase in the number of weapons seized. The government considers work against the introduction of illegal weapons to be important. International cooperation is also necessary to prevent the introduction of illegal weapons. Sweden is actively involved in international cooperation to prevent smuggling and the government is working to further strengthen EU cooperation and harmonise common legislation to limit the supply of arms. As part of the fight against the increased armament and use of firearms in criminal circles, the lowest penalty for serious weapons offences was raised on 1 September 2014. At the same time, the highest penalty for gun crimes was raised by the normal rate and a new one, a particularly serious weapon offence, was introduced. However, the scale of penalties laid down in the Law on Flammable and Explosive Goods remains at the same level as was the case for weapons offences before the penalty increases a year ago. Since the similarities with the provisions on criminal liability for weapons offences are obvious, there is a need to revise the penal provisions of the Law on Flammable and Explosive Goods. The front lines for gun crimes are not criminalized today. The investigation into the strengthening of criminal measures against organised crime has proposed to criminalise attempts, preparation and conspiracy of serious weapons offences and particularly serious weapons offences. The proposal has been referred and is now being prepared in the Government Office. Police officers should be available where they are most needed. One of the most important starting points in the reform of the police has been to strengthen local presence and accessibility throughout the country. The police authority is responsible for allocating resources so that the police are available throughout the country, while fighting serious crime where it occurs. As an example of this, Chief Police Officer Dan Eliasson recently announced that the resources in Malmö will be strengthened to address the problems there. The government is closely following the continued reorganisation of the police to ensure that the intentions of the reform are fulfilled. It is important that the Police Authority disposes of its resources in a way that, taken together, promotes law enforcement and security throughout the country in the best possible way.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-194	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Minister Ygeman for his answer. However, I would like to take a brief look back to show how it was in Malmö this past summer. On 12 June, a hand grenade exploded on Rasmusgatan in the area of Seved, on 20 June in Kroksbäck, on 24 June in Kroksbäck again, on 15 July in Arlöv, located north of Malmö, on 21 July a new explosion outside a meeting room, on 23 July in Limhamn, on 24 July on Norra Grängesbergsgatan, on 26 July Värnhem, on 5 August in central Trelleborg and on 10 August in Möllevången, and then on a residential building. That is, of course, totally unacceptable. The violence of the summer in Malmö is both serious and, as I said, totally unacceptable. When Malmöers are concerned about their security, when government buildings are attacked and when settlements are made openly on our streets, it is also a threat to our democracy. Violence and crime unfortunately take place in more places in our country, but I would like to emphasise Malmö's geographical location and the special position that Malmö has with its proximity to the continent. This makes the city particularly vulnerable as there is more access to weapons than in many other parts of the country. I welcome the answer from Minister Ygeman. It cannot simply be thrown into this when not much has been done in the past. Nevertheless, I would like to stress the importance of us really holding on here and delivering what needs to be delivered. Of course, this is a complex problem. It is about more police resources, and they have come, but it is also about continuity. Previously it was a very distorted distribution, and we felt that Malmö was very distributed. We hope that there will now really be continuity. As the Government said, it is also about the police having to be where the people are and creating a closeness. It is the police's job to also prevent crime. Of course, it is also a question of reducing gaps and exclusion. I and we have been in contact with many associations in Malmö just to talk about how to prevent this, because unfortunately many young people have become involved in these crimes. Better control of smuggling is needed. The police themselves say that one would probably need to have a better presence in the Balkans. That is a proposal that exists. Hand grenades are being sold, and the Government hopes that hand grenades will shortly be subject to the legislation applicable to other weapons in terms of the penalty scale. As it is today, it is completely unreasonable. According to the police in Malmö, it is cheaper today to buy a hand grenade than an ice cream. A lot of weapons are being brought in, depending on our proximity to the continent. Something has to be done about that. Hand grenades may sound harmless– I'm certainly not an expert on it – but according to the police there's a risk of dying if you're within five meters of a detonation. That is precisely what is the big difference between the past summer and previous years, that is, the hand grenades begin to appear in places where many people are, where people live and live. I would like the Government to develop what he intends to do further.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-201	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Marie Granlund for this important interpellation and also thank her for her reply. When the interpellation was written, we were in the midst of, as it almost felt, burning wars. The hand grenades were frequent. I am pleased that the government has already taken action. It is a question of strengthening arms legislation, not least in the case of hand grenades. It is also about more police to Malmö, and it is important to strengthen with police officers who can investigate the crimes. I have been told by the police on site in Malmö that one problem is that the resources to investigate are not enough. It is through investigations that it is possible to call in those responsible for the crimes, and it is important that these crimes are cleared up. It is estimated that there are a few people who have thrown away the grenades. That is why it is essential to call them in. In the discussions, it is important to distinguish between different attacks. There have been attacks with hand grenades, and then there have been, above all, settlements. But cars have also been burned. It is, of course, terrible, but one must distinguish between the different phenomena. The police are careful to point out that there is another type of crime, which is more about frustration; frustration is exploding. You have to deal with these crimes in different ways. I would like to emphasise what Marie Granlund says about social divides. It is estimated that one in three children in Malmö is poor. It's not a good breeding ground, because it can lead to crime. That is why what the government is now doing is important. It is important to strengthen welfare policies, strengthen the finances of municipalities, ensure that more children grow up in good conditions, ensure that more children are able to cope with school and have good leisure opportunities. Then they can be absorbed by schoolwork and good leisure activities instead of engaging in destructive activities. After it comes to work and housing. That whole chain is connected. Preventive work does not happen overnight; it is long-term work. But if we are to reverse the spiral of less crime as a goal, we must begin now. Research shows that preventive work has the greatest impact in the long run, i.e. when children and young people have faith in the future and have good opportunities in life. We also need to address the emergency phase. There I think the government has made a start in this area. It's time to hold on to it. It must not be a temporary police presence; it will be needed for a long time. When I talked to policemen in Malmö, they have said that they want more focus on local police, and I feel that they have started to move in that direction. Then it is policemen who know the area, who are moving among the people there, who get to know the young people in the area. In this way they can gain confidence in the police, and the police are not seen primarily as a threat. The fact that people have confidence in the local police and feel that they can tell us what is happening in the area increases the chances of coping with crime. One problem with this type of crime is that it can be difficult to get testimony because people are afraid. They may be afraid of the perpetrators but also of the police when they do not feel that confidence. It is very important to build such confidence. Then I think that we must also disarm the criminals, make sure that people do not carry guns and hand grenades, because then there may be impulses, which unfortunately can have terrible consequences.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-209	Mr President, I would like to I have had the privilege of visiting most of the sites that have been subjected to attacks of the kind mentioned in the interpellation. The Malmö police received national reinforcements during the summer. The police regrouped their forces in the country. As a result, a number of people have been arrested for gun crimes and the situation in Malmö, I dare say, has stabilised. Now it is important to proceed with the investigations, get more of the perpetrators arrested and gather sufficient evidence to keep it in court. In the autumn, I will be visiting the Balkan countries we are talking about, those which represent a significant proportion of the weapons flowing into the rest of Europe. These are countries that have been hit hard by war, and there are far too many weapons. I am also prepared to come back with initiatives at European level to collect and destroy weapons in the Western Balkans. As long as there is a large supply of them, there is a risk that they will be shipped to other countries. In terms of social development, one cannot be surprised that ten years of growing gaps, rising unemployment and falling school outcomes also have social consequences. Therefore, the government's focus is crystal clear. We're going to fight down unemployment. By 2020, Sweden will have the EU's lowest unemployment rate. We're going to reverse the trend in school. More people will pass their upper secondary school qualifications. We're going to narrow the gaps in society. This will, of course, facilitate the work of the police and law enforcement authorities. The government has also taken a number of concrete measures. Weapon punishment has doubled. Now we are moving on and doing the same punishment in the case of hand grenades and explosives. We're taking control measures. We tighten the rules for what is called explosives precursors, that is, parts of weapons production. We carried out a national reinforcement from the police in Malmö during the ongoing process. As I described, the head of the Swedish police has promised a hundred new police officers in the South and Malmö region on a lasting basis to do what is at the heart of the reform: there will be more police officers closer to the citizens, and citizens' security will be increased, crime will be investigated and perpetrators put behind bars.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-214	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the answer from the Government. I wrote the interpellation after experiencing an enormous anger in my home town of Malmö. Ordinary Malmöers are beginning to feel afraid of being in certain places. Others may feel a fear of expressing themselves. There is an enormous anger against it after all the small number of people trying to take over the city. The reason I wrote the interpellation was that I really wanted to show that it is a national responsibility to ensure that security works, that there are enough police officers, that the police are where people are and so on. I feel that this has been taken seriously by the government. However, as I said, my appeal is that the police resources will be permanent and that it will really work in the future, because we feel that Malmö has been treated quite nicely earlier in terms of police resources. There's a lot going on. Better control of smuggling is very important, as is presence in the Balkans. There are things to discuss, such as the possibility of searching for a house on suspicion of possession of weapons. The Government has said that there may be further tightening of arms legislation, which I welcome. We in the EU Council, or at least I, welcome whether there will be more stringent legislation on the management of spent weapons, because that is a huge problem. It's really about hating crime. But it is also a question of hating the causes of crime. That is why it is so important for the work that the government has started to reduce the gaps in Sweden and which will also lead to a reduction in gaps in Malmö. It is clear that unemployment, exclusion and so on lead to more crime. A solid job must be done, not least at school to raise school results and make sure that each student feels seen and needed. This will take some time, but we've started, and just keep going. As I said, what has happened is totally unacceptable. It is very sad that we should have to discuss this today in Parliament's Chamber. But I still feel a light. Now it's been quiet. For the future, I very much hope that the government will keep up the efforts and improvements that have been announced.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-219	Mr President, I would like to We have been working on preventing the crimes from taking place at all. It's the most important job. Unfortunately, it is also the one that takes the longest time, but it gives the best effect in the long run. But it is also important to disarm the criminals, on whom I was involved. In the United States, the number of violent crimes per inhabitant is very high. There are very many people in the population who have weapons and also very many who in a terrible way suffer injuries and death. The more weapons are readily distributed in society, the more violence and the more devastating the consequences. Unfortunately, this is one of the problems in Malmö. We have organised crime, and although not many are at the heart of the major criminals, that is a problem. But it is also a problem that they have weapons so easily accessible. Then you have to find different ways. The government's on arms law. It's discussed if you can stop the smuggling. But we must also ensure that we simply take the weapons off them. This could be about coming home and taking weapons or taking the weapons from someone who carries weapons. You might know who it is. There should be roads. In Gothenburg they have worked in this way and managed to get a lot of weapons. Not long ago, we had an amnesty of arms that was beyond expectation. We got a lot of guns in there. I very much believe in such measures – to make sure that they do not have weapons readily available when it burns. If you don't have weapons, it's your fists, otherwise it's a knife, then guns and hand grenades. It's very important to stop it. Finally, I would like to remind you that Mr Zlatan has said that he could well have been a juvenile delinquent instead of a football player. It is a question of giving young people a future.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-225	Mr President, I would like to Regarding the latter, Malmö, PSG and Sweden are very happy that it went in the right direction. Let me be clear that there is no city or country in Sweden that thinks that it is over-inflicted when it comes to the distribution of police officers. It's in the nature of the matter. But we have never invested more financial resources in the police than we do now. In the last 30 years, we've never had more cops than we have now. There are good conditions for success in what is the intention of the reform: to bring more police officers closer to the citizens and to create security and order both in Malmö and elsewhere. I naturally agree with everything that has been said about the importance of social and preventive action. I would also like to take this opportunity to underline the important role of the municipality. The municipality is the principal of the school and usually also of Swedish for immigrants, for example. There is considerable potential for improvement in performance. School results have fallen for eight years. With the previous government, we had the worst development of the OECD in schools. Of course it matters. We have seen unemployment rise. It's higher now than eight years ago. Of course it matters. We have seen the gaps grow in society for perhaps 10 to 15 years. Of course it matters. But now we have a policy in place to reverse the trend – push back unemployment, reverse school developments and reduce gaps again. And we've got a lot of money spent on cops and order.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-228	Mr President, I would like to It is very important to see both sides when talking about what has happened. It is a question of reprisals and the detention of those who commit crimes, but it is also, as I said, a matter of prevention. It is a great challenge, and as the Government says, the municipality has a great responsibility. Therefore, it is very gratifying that Malmö has turned a negative trend – school results are now rising. The rating average rises for each year. It is a work that must of course be kept in and worked on. There is also a need for resource reinforcement at national level. We are, of course, looking forward to the next budget. But it's also about your own responsibility. Many of the gangs and criminals are financed through the black market. Here we must all become much more observant and take responsibility for what we are doing and at what price, and who we are dealing with, to curb this. This is a huge source of income for many of the gangs. It is therefore both about the municipality and about ourselves as individuals. But of course it is also about the national level – what can be done in the form of legislation and in the form of reprisals. We hope we won't have to experience a summer like this again. We hope that we will be able to devote ourselves to playing football and meeting Zlatan in Malmö. That's what we want to do, and we want some peace and quiet. As I said, I very much hope that the government will keep up the good efforts it has made.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-233	Mr President, I would like to I have no other opinion. I hope that the initiatives taken by the government and the initiatives that the government will take will contribute to a better situation. Then I'll wish Malmö better luck the next time PSG comes to Malmö and it's time for a rematch.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-236	I would like to welcome the Minister. Questions are answered by Minister for Education Gustav Fridolin, Minister for Foreign Affairs Margot Wallström, Minister Helene Hellmark Knutsson, Minister for Social Security Annika Strandhäll and Minister Ardalan Shekarabi. An issue shall be of a horizontal, general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. Minister for Education Gustav Fridolin answers both general policy questions and questions within his own area of responsibility.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-239	Madam President, I would like I turn to Minister for Foreign Affairs Margot Wallström. In a democracy, it is nice that you can have different opinions and break them against each other. That is how I see it in terms of the Social Democrats and the Moderates, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the undersigned, in terms of NATO. That is why I think it is good that we can have an open, free and independent NATO debate in Sweden. Then you will be horrified and badly disturbed when you see a representative of the Russian Ministry for Foreign Affairs tweet the following: Sweden's entry into NATO would have military and foreign policy consequences that would require the necessary reaction from the Russian side. I understand that the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the undersigned are in complete agreement that it is important to mark against that kind of opinion. Swedish decisions on NATO membership, Swedish choices regarding defence and security policy we take in Sweden, not under the influence of another country. That is why it is also good, as I have seen newspaper reports, that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has planned to convene, or has called, the Russian Ambassador. I would like to know what has been handled during those talks.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-243	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mr Wallmark, for the question. It is quite right that I reacted immediately and commented on it in the only possible way, namely that we decide our own security policy. We do not allow ourselves to be influenced by threatening statements. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs also called the Russian ambassador for talks. Now it is a matter of fact that we do not usually reveal the content of these talks, and that is in order for us to be able to ask the relevant questions, in this case to the ambassador, and hopefully be able to get an answer and a dialogue on the issues that are important to us. Our security policy line, as Mr Wallmark well knows, is solid, and our independence is, of course, a cornerstone of this.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-246	Madam President, I would like Many thanks for your answer! I also hope, and perhaps even believe, that the Foreign Minister has underlined that the line she represents is the Swedish line. I believe that there is a broad political consensus across party and bloc boundaries. I think that is important in this particular situation, because I think we are likely to see more expressions like what we have now seen in the Russian tweet and not less. Then it is important that we stand up for the fact that we can have different views on NATO. We may have different opinions about when we are to become members, but it is we who make that decision without the influence and influence of any other country or regime. Therefore, that message is clear, whether you belong to the government or the opposition – it can change over time – that it is we in Sweden that make our own decisions, not some tweeting Russian Ministry official or some Russian ambassador in Stockholm.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-249	Madam President, I would like How nice it is, Hans Wallmark, when we can agree with each other 100 percent! After all, our security policy is decided on completely independently, without the influence or threat of other nations. Let's stick to what's our line. It should be handled responsibly and with broad parliamentary involvement. We'll stay on course. We remain clear. We do not falter in our security policy and, of course, we believe from the government that the freedom of military alliance also gives us freedom of action to stand up for Sweden's sovereignty and work for security in our neighbourhood. At the same time, it is foreign policy that is very much our main line of defence. We are also strengthening defence capabilities now, with broad political agreement.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-253	Madam President, I would like According to UNHCR, over 4 million people have fled war Syria to nearby countries. More than half of the country's remaining population is in need of humanitarian aid. The UN estimates that an allocation of approximately SEK 45 billion is needed to deal with the refugee situation. At present, there have been promises of some 28 billion. During January – February, temperatures in Syria often reach below zero. The winters are characterized by large amounts of rain and snow. In other words, needs will not be reduced in the coming months. At the same time, we see that the Swedish government, with the stubbornness of a donkey, continues to do exactly the opposite of what should be done. The spring bill announces that it intends to cut even more resources from the aid budget, now almost SEK 9 billion, to invest in the bottomless expenditure item called refugee immigration. Reduced resources in the neighbourhood lead to more refugees, resulting in even less resources in the neighbourhood. I want to know how the government has the nerve to call its refugee policy humane while literally taking food out of the mouth of poor children to fund a long-established immigration policy.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-257	Mrs. Talma n! Thank you for asking, Björn Söder! The vast majority of refugees who come to Sweden come from Syria. We can see that the root cause of this conflict is political, and that is why the solution must also be. We must continue to work for a long-term sustainable political solution in the Syria conflict and, of course, we support and support Staffan de Mistura's efforts. Our second track from the beginning has been humanitarian. Sweden is a humanitarian power, the fifth largest donor in the world. We must also help people who are on the run from a country in which they can no longer live. There are 12 million refugees, either as internally displaced persons or in other countries. However, the large number now coming to Europe are a few compared to those fleeing to neighbouring countries, and that is why we must do both. We must tackle both the causes of the flight and, indeed, help those who are already on the run.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-260	Madam President, I would like The Swedish policy is that if you have ten starving children and ten apples you take nine of the apples and give to one of the children. The remaining nine children share the leftover apple. Then I do not understand how to talk about humanism and being a humanitarian superpower. A humane refugee policy must, of course, be aimed at saving as many lives as possible, and this is not done with the current policy pursued in Sweden. I would like the Foreign Minister to explain to the Swedish people how it can be humane to prioritise the few, in a global perspective, who manage to get here to Sweden at a high cost for us to improve their standard of living when so many, the vast majority of the world's refugees, are in the immediate vicinity of crisis areas. In fact, aid and the greatest financial resources should be channelled there. We do not do that today when we spend the greatest resources on refugee immigration to Sweden.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-264	Madam President, I would like Björn South! It is important to both help on the ground and to have a generous reception in Sweden. As I said, we are already the fifth largest donor in the world. Because of the very serious situation in the world today, we are now raising humanitarian funding by SEK 485 million to SEK 5.34 billion in the budget bill for next year. Next year, both the UNHCR and the United Nations Emergency Fund will receive increased funding. It does not work as with apples and pears or whatever you choose, but in foreign policy you sometimes have to do both. These aren't easy choices. We must help those people who are already on the run, we must tackle the root causes, and we must also ensure that we invest in humanitarian aid around the world. We do both, and we make it more generous than most other countries in the world. We can be proud of that. I am not saying that it is not a strain on our societies or that it will not be a major challenge for us. But we're gonna keep doing it, and we can do it.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-268	Madam President, I would like My question is addressed to Minister of Education Gustav Fridolin. A year ago the comment was like a kick in the belly of the then spokesperson Gustav Fridolin. Then it was about a withdrawal from SJ of 73 million. This year they have already from the current government, where spokesperson Gustav Fridolin is included, picked out 230 million and have called for an extraordinary meeting where to pick out 1.7 billion. One can ponder in one's calm mind what force is used when the Government Office enters those discussions. What is a bit unfortunate is that somewhere there is a great need for both maintenance and investment. There is a great need to make train traffic work all over the country, and there are many testimonies about when the traffic is not working properly. When a party that has spent the whole of its journey until it has ended up in the Government Office, affirmed, and stood up for the importance of train traffic – which I agree with – it becomes of course very strange. What is Gustav Fridolin's message today when he is both a spokesperson and a minister of education?
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-273	Madam President, I would like I have great respect for the question and respect for the author of the question, but I have little respect for the government option represented by the questioner until September last year when it comes to rail. It was a government that began its journey by saying that it had been overinvested in the railways and built on the great mountain of maintenance that led to delays, which all of us who have been standing on a platform feel well. Now there is a government that invests in the railways. We invest 61⁄2 billion in railway maintenance for the coming years. That's before the infrastructure bill's in place. The payment that Annika Qarlsson mentions has come after an ownership dialogue between the Ministry of Industry and SJ where it has been found that the company is overcapitalised. For the payment to be possible, it is obvious that the company's investment plan must be kept. SJ must cope with the investments needed to build a robust and climate-smart railway network. It is for us of course, and it is obvious to the government when you have entered into the dialogue with SJ AB.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-276	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister Fridolin. What is a bit interesting is that the signal in so many different issues goes in the same direction. First you tell about the big bets that you should make. Then there is talk of you being involved in paying. In this we can see tax cuts that have gone to companies, which they have to pay dearly. We can see that the old also pay dearly for the increases that are being introduced. This spring 620 million was promised for this year and for next year 1.24 billion. It is about the same amount that is now being requested home in extra dividends. I'm saying the government has a signal error.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-280	Madam President, I would like This is a bit of a classic bu merang question. It feels good when you send the question away, but then it comes back again. The reason why the talks are being conducted with SJ in the first place is that SJ is today considered to be a company any day. It is based on the rules that the Alliance followed during its eight years of government. Our government wants a different relationship with SJ. We want SJ to have an expanded community mission. We would very much like to agree with the Riksdag on this so that we can change the ownership directives to SJ AB in a good way so that it gets an extended community assignment. If the Center Party is interested in more than throwing the boomerang at the Green Party – it is also a breath of life, I understand – one could get into discussions on how to change the owner's directives to SJ and give it an expanded community mission. Then we wouldn't have to stand here and discuss that kind of dividend.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-285	Madam President, I would like I would like to put my question to Minister Wallström. I want to talk about the situation in Syria. It's terrible to see. It's getting worse. The war has lasted a long time, and it has gotten worse in the last year. It is a terrible tragedy that is taking place. Sweden does a lot of things. As Mrs Wallström has mentioned, there is a great deal of aid. We accept refugees, which is absolutely crucial. We cannot at the same time say that what is happening is terrible and then close the door and do not help. What can we do to stop the terrible spiral of violence that we see in Syria? I am thinking not least of the civilian population – women and children. What's going on there is terrible. Women are raped on an assembly line. Children are also raped, beaten, murdered and sold as sex slaves. What can the government do to stop the terrible things that are happening?
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-289	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Hillevi Larsson, who can also ask well. As I said earlier, the root cause is political. That is why the solution must also be political. We believe that efforts must be stepped up to find a political solution. We support, support and are in regular contact with the UN envoy Staffan de Mistura, who has now presented proposals for a way forward. Four working groups will be set up in Geneva, which will then try to get an international contribution and create support groups of countries that want to help. The international community, on the other hand, is moving in a slightly different direction. It is also worrying that there is increased Russian military support for the Asad regime. It is clear that the Asad regime has bombed its own population and killed so many people that it is unreasonable to imagine that the Asad regime should remain. We can provide intensified support, including from the EU, to Staffan de Mistura's efforts.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-293	Madam President, I would like It is important to emphasise what Mrs Wallström says, namely that the Asad regime does not stand for a better alternative than IS – or ISIL, as they can also be called – but the people deserve something much better. It is about democracy and human rights, including equality, which is now completely wiped out in this situation. I know that Mrs Wallström has worked at UN level on issues of gender equality and sexual abuse in conflicts. She has also been given another UN mission. What can we do further within the framework of the UN on gender equality in order to put an end to the terrible abuses, particularly against women and also against children?
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-296	Madam President, I would like It is an international responsibility, and it is a responsibility that falls to the Security Council. So far, the Security Council has been a huge failure for the international community to intervene and stop the conflict in Syria and also to intervene against the widespread sexual violence that we see not only in Syria carried out by ISIL but also by Boko Haram and other groups around the world. Now it is also defined as a kind of religious practice, as part of a religion. It's very dangerous. That is also why I have written to Secretary-General Ban Ki Moon to propose that the issue be put much more clearly on the UN agenda. We must contribute to that. We will do so on behalf of Sweden as part of our feminist foreign policy.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-299	Madam President, I would like I have a question for the Minister for Higher Education and Research Helene Hellmark Knutsson. This is a matter that the Prime Minister mentioned in his government declaration two days ago. He then read that the quality of teacher training should be improved. This makes me curious. In what way? The context is that there is a new teacher training in place. The Alliance government launched the training in 2011. There is not yet a litter of young people who have left education. We also know that the University Chancellor's Office intends to evaluate the quality of the teacher education as the first effort in its new system. And we know that the Alliance government increased the funding for teacher training by over 60%. It's a step that I know the government intends to pursue... maybe not so much, but at least. What measures and reforms does the Minister have in the pipeline to improve quality?
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-303	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Betty Malmberg, for an important question. This is something that I think we are all passionate about, namely that there should be a teacher education of the highest quality. Just as Betty Malmberg says, there is a new teacher training in place. It has not been fully evaluated. Nevertheless, we know that there are quality challenges in teacher training. One of them is about the teacher-led hours of education. This is something that teacher education shares with the humanistic and social sciences educations. That is why we are already contributing EUR 125 million this year, which will increase to 250 million. We also know that there are challenges in terms of the research link and in terms of the operational part of the training. There is a trial of training schools, which is also being evaluated. But it's still a limited attempt.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-307	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. One of the purposes of the money contributed by the alliance government was precisely that we could get to this problem and get to more teacher-led hours. It turned out to be a little harder than expected. Some higher education institutions also say that with a new pedagogy it is perhaps not what is explicitly important, and it is important to listen to what the higher education institutions say. The research link is also important and essential in these contexts. That's why it's a little strange, I think, that the government has moved away study places from one of the universities that belong to top 100 in the world, Stockholm University – and from one of the subjects that belong to top 100 in the world, education science – to move them around to other universities. This is not stimulating quality. Students also ask for more educational qualifications, i.e. that it should be profitable for teachers to qualify for teaching. Could any of this be relevant?
i-XVPCTRJNvRLKvDkapL6C2X	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Betty Malmberg! It is clear that we should develop pedag ogiken, but it is not possible to estimate how important it is not to have too large teaching groups so that as a student you can have close contact with your teacher. This applies throughout the education system, and it also applies to higher education. We are a government that wants to ensure that we manage the skills supply of everyone, not least teachers, throughout the country. That is why we are expanding higher education throughout the country. We will also make sure that research keeps up with this so that we have a close connection with higher education research, not least for teacher education. As far as Stockholm University is concerned, the seats have not been reduced, but we have increased the number of seats there as well – but not so much as was suggested in the budget adopted by the Riksdag because we see that there are other shortage professions. We needed to expand care training, and we needed to expand engineering training. But in Stockholm as a whole there will be more teaching places, but not only at Stockholm University. Hungary's action on the refugee issue
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-316	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask Foreign Minister Wallström the following. We see tear gas on refugee children. We see state of emergency, barbed wire fences and tougher border laws. We see that refugees who are illegally entering the country may be in prison for three years. I am talking about Hungary in September 2015. In the midst of this huge refugee tragedy, the EU is undergoing not only an acute crisis of solidarity but also a long-term crisis of democracy in the case of Hungary. The opposition has weakened, the independence of the courts has been eroded and the freedom of the press has been curtailed. It can be said that the change in Hungary following the right-wing populist party Fidesz' election victory in 2010 is the most radical change in society in any EU country since the fall of the Communist regimes in 1989. I believe that the EU and its Member States have made the bed for Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán in what is happening right now. If action had been taken five years ago, the refugees might have been faced with roofs, not tear gas and barbed wire. I would like to ask you, Mrs Wallström: what are you doing now, as the responsible minister, in criticising Hungary for destroying its own democracy, failing the EU ideal and contributing to the refugee tragedy?
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-321	Madam President, I would like Five years ago – that was just when Birgitta Ohlsson became Minister of a bourgeois government. It was probably also from when you should have more properly addressed this issue, so maybe a little self-awareness should be in all of this. Otherwise, I agree. I think we are on the same line: Hungary's action is not acceptable. Now human rights institutions around the world are also speaking out and protesting against the treatment of refugees, the harsh practices used against them and the setting up of fences. I expect Hungary to live up to the commitments that exist in the area of asylum. It is very important that everyone has their asylum reasons tested. Now the EU Member States must help each other. It is quite clear what we think. We have set it out in all political contacts and when we meet the media, and we are trying in every way to influence a common European line. We will continue to do so. We also need to solve the practical problems that Hungary has, and we need to help each other with this.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-324	Madam President, I would like This debate highlights the EU's weakness as a watchdog for human rights and also the fact that the EU has not managed to impose smart sanctions. It is no secret that we had major debates in the government I sat in on these questions. However, it should be clear that, thanks to Sweden, the EU brought pressure to bear on Member States that violate human rights. However, in the year that you, Mrs Wallström, have been Minister for Foreign Affairs, I have not seen any initiatives on your part, although this has been perhaps the most important year to ensure that this becomes a reality. I wonder now whether, at the next General Council meeting, you will raise what is happening in Hungary right now and whether you will press ahead with sanctions against a country like Hungary.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-327	Madam President, I would like As everyone knows who has followed what we are doing through the EU Council but also at our meetings, both Foreign Affairs and the General Council, this is an issue that we are pursuing. In fact, I have nothing against saying thank you at all, Birgitta Ohlsson, because I think you were one of those who really pushed forward and ensured that the discussion on a mechanism within the EU to monitor the issue of human rights is in place. We have pushed and supported this, consistently, also in our policy. We will continue to do so. This is not an easy job, but it must be done. I hope that, on this issue too, we can find a political consensus and cooperation in order to pursue it in the future. But we have pursued that line, and we will continue to do so.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-331	Madam President, I would like Just a week ago, I and my colleagues in the Social Security Committee came home from a trip to Turkey. I must admit that I was quite shocked by the developments that we saw in the country. I didn't know it was as serious as it actually is. August was the bloodiest month of 15 years, mayors of the eastern parts have been arrested, we have seen opposition parties have been attacked and so on. I would like to ask Foreign Minister Wallström what Sweden and the Swedish Government can do to ensure that Turkey does not become another country, also in a very conflict-filled region, where the conflict escalates and we have a new large-scale war.
i-7ptVZsifUQxoFJoG4jULfk	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking, Magda Rasmusson! As everyone who has followed recent news reports has noted, we have been very active in dealing with opposition parties – for example with Demirta ş, who is the leader of one of the opposition parties – and of course with my Turkish colleague. We have tried to follow developments and to call for reflection. We hope that we will be able to face the escalating violence. It is deeply disturbing, also for the rest of the world. From the outset, we have called on the parties to return to peace talks and to stop violence. New elections are announced on 1 November, and the OSSE is invited by Turkey to re-sent an election observation mission. Sweden will contribute election observers to this. But, of course, we have protested against developments. We are following it very closely, and we are influencing – including through Europe.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-335	Madam President, I would like One of the challenges facing Turkey is the refugee crisis that is facing, not least that country. 2 million Syrian refugees are in the country along with a few hundred thousand from other countries. The picture seems to be that there is a risk that this will escalate even further as people are beginning to feel that they are giving up on the fact that there will be peace in Syria and even more groups are leaving the country. Turkey is then a way into Europe. Someone told me that all the boat engines in the country are sold out because people simply in desperation choose to get into a dangerous boat on their way across the Mediterranean. Here the Swedish Government is following a line that is clear, namely that we must open up more legal ways into Europe. But I suppose you should be careful and say that it does not give the same ear to other EU states.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-339	Madam President, I would like Yes, Magda Rasmusson, I couldn't have said it better myself. That is precisely the description of reality that we have. Now this is also starting to be a huge strain with almost 2 million refugees who have gone to Turkey. It is clear that it represents an enormous effort for the country. When I talk to my fellow minister, this is emphasised, but it is always said that we will be able to do it. We're gonna keep dealing with it. We should not complain, but we should make sure that we deal with it in a dignified way. They're struggling with this. It is important that we continue to contribute to humanitarian efforts and help them as much as possible, but also that we have continued to push the issue of opening up more legal ways into the European Union. It is a debate that we have constantly, both on the EU Board, in the face of all our positions in the General Council and at the meetings of foreign ministers. We will continue to fight for this, because it is part of our humane refugee policy, and we must pursue it.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-342	Madam President, I would like I think there are many of us who are happy and feel the hope for the future when we see how many help and support the people who come to our country in the current crisis in the world and of which we in Europe have a small share. In the Government Declaration, the Prime Minister highlights the importance of civil society, but when it comes to concrete action, unfortunately, the only Prime Minister mentioned inviting civil society for talks. What the government otherwise does, by removing the possibility of tax deductions for donations to the non-profit sector, affects the non-profit sector very hard. In its legislative referral, the government states that support for the activities of the non-profit sector should be allocated from a priority of how it contributes to social benefits. It goes on to say that public support should be based on clear priorities rather than on private choice. But it is the choice of private individuals that is the important thing about civil society! My question goes to Minister Fridolin. Is this consistent with the fair speech of the government, that resources are actually being reduced?
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-346	Madam President, I would like I must say that I am a little surprised at what people Emma Henriksson has met in the last few days. I have met people who really do put up with both time and money, as volunteers in schools, with homework aid, in asylum homes and in parishes. Not one of them has said: "I'm going to give you some, because I'm going to have to make tax deductions for that. This is not, of course, the driving force for wanting to help and be a fellow human being. It is something you do because you actually want to stand up as a human being for the people who are now fleeing from other countries. It is true that we are removing the ineffective allowance for gifts imposed by the Alliance Government. But it is equally true that we will provide more resources to civil society in the budget that comes than the deduction has cost. Among other things, that money goes to those organisations that are now doing a huge and important job of running for refugees who come to Sweden.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-348	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister. I fully share the view that many people are making enormous efforts. You invest not only money but also in your time, you open up your home and share what you have in all kinds of different ways. That is something we should promote. But we can also see that the tax credit for gifts has increased the financial resources of the organisations involved. We can ask the Cancer Society, Doctors Without Borders, Red K orset and Plan Sweden – all these important organisations that also raise money and that can contribute through these financial resources. My supplementary question to the Government is: how will it be better for civil society that the government ensure that resources are reduced by, according to the organisations' own estimates, direct SEK 250 million? How will this increase the capacity of civil society to remain free from the state and to make the necessary priorities itself? This is what also benefits civil engagement.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-351	Madam President, I would like I will answer the question, but first let me just question the description of reality. I am not buying that it would be the case that the reason people donate more is because they have introduced a tax credit. I have not met any human being who has said: I am finally going to give money to a civilian organisation, because now I have to deduct the tax for it. I do not think this is the driving force. The reason we are now giving more is that the needs are so much clearer, bigger and more obvious to all of us. Then we want to do what we can to meet those needs, just as Emma Henriksson says, with both money and time. The specific question was: how can it be better after we remove the right to deduct? Because we are spending so much more money, both on civil society – civil society receives in the budget more than the deduction has cost – and on aid and direct emergency aid. As Secretary of State Margot Wallström here reported, over 400 million will be added there next year, and that, as everyone knows, is more than 250 million.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-355	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask my question to Minister of Education Gustav Fridolin. Together, the Chair of the School Commission and the Minister for Education have made a series of statements that have raised quite a lot of concerns among Swedish pupils and parents about the free choice of school. If there is to be a future or not, there are many who wonder. The ability to choose a school is very important to many people. It is about being able to choose the focus and specific subjects, to be able to opt out of former classmates and to be able to get a fresh start. The school elections are also an opportunity to break segregation and exclusion. At the same time, I know that the Minister wants 16-year-olds to be able to vote and choose the government. How, then, does the minister intend when he does not want to let 15-year-olds choose upper secondary school while 16-year-olds are allowed to choose government?
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-358	Madam President, I would like The right to choose school according to educational orientation and after the opportunity to grow as a human being we safeguard. But at the same time we must see the research being carried out, for example in the OECD's in-depth review of Sweden, that Sweden stands out. We stand out by having this right and opportunity that we safeguard but lack mechanisms to equalise the differences that then arise between schools. We have an increased segregation in the school system, and then we think, as the School Commission also does, that we need to look at what we can do to achieve the differences between schools so that the school choice can be a choice between different educational directions and not a lottery where you can choose the right or the wrong school. School elections are based on the fact that all schools are good, and we must be able to ensure that. This type of system is currently being built up in some municipalities. I know that municipalities governed by the Moderates have in many cases put in place systems for all parents to choose, and it is a system for dealing with the differences that arise if freedom of choice is not combined with strong systems so that not only the children who have committed parents will choose school.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-361	Madam President, I would like If the point of departure of the statements made had been that it wanted to increase the free choice of schools and not to phase it out, the concern today would not have been so great. The biggest differences we see in Swedish schools are between classrooms at the same school, not primarily between schools. The starting point for the solution, regardless of what the Minister is saying here today, has not been to do as in Sollentuna or Nacka, where it is clear that all children and students need to choose. That's what I'd call developing the free choice of school. Instead, however, the focus has been on expanding the lottery that the Minister is now questioning. What will happen in the future? Will we see the development of free school elections or the phasing out of them?
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-364	Madam President, I would like I think I was pretty clear. The free choice of school is important but must be combined with security in that all schools are good. Otherwise, it's not a school election. Then it's something you do without knowing what you're getting. Then some students will end up in the schools where everyone wants to go while others are left behind in the schools that are rejected. We must not have a system of elected and elected schools. The free choice of schools must be complemented by strong systems to ensure that all schools are good and attractive. There are many municipalities working on this. Malmö Municipality has done a conscious and strategic job to ensure that all schools are good schools, which has also led to the tough decision to close a school. Those students – exactly the same students – got better results when they ended up in other schools. Of course it is important to learn from it. The school means so much, and what meetings they get at school means so much to the students' knowledge development. We're doing a lot in this area. For example, we are looking at the possibility of introducing a common queue for all schools. It makes it easier to choose. It makes the system better. The school commission is doing the hard work of looking at the deep causes.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-367	Madam President, I would like My question to the Government concerns the report that the Government ordered from Boverket, which is entitled Nyanlända's housing situation. One question to Boverket was: How can you create more housing for the increased number of new arrivals in Sweden? I have asked this question earlier – the report came already in March – and did not receive a clear answer from the government. That's why I choose to set it again. The report proposes that new arrivals should be given priority in the housing queue. It is also proposed that private property owners, private individuals and municipal housing companies should receive a rent guarantee when renting out to new arrivals. You should also give a bonus to those who choose to primarily rent out to new arrivals. My question to the government is: What is the attitude towards the report and the proposals that Boverket has made to the government?
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-371	Madam President, I would like I am not responsible for housing policy issues, but in general the government's position is that we should have the same rights and obligations for everyone who lives in Sweden. We're not going to have any special solutions. We should not have negative discrimination between people. We will follow the order that applies according to the Swedish Constitution. All people's equal value, equality and prohibition of discrimination are matters governed by our constitution, and we shall of course follow that.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-372	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for the answer from the Government. My supplementary question will then be: what is so interesting in the report, and why does the government send it out for a referral? I wonder about the proposals that we have just heard about, that priority should be given to housing, and that the Government believes that this should not happen. That is a series of very controversial proposals. It is about giving priority and giving advantages to those who primarily choose to rent out to new arrivals. So my question is: what is so interesting about this report? I wonder because the government is sending it out for a referral.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-375	Madam President, I would like I cannot explain the position and why this report has just been sent for consultation. However, there is a system for the handling of referrals in the work of the Government Office, and I assume that this is a system that has also been followed in relation to this report.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-376	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister for Social Security Annika Strandhäll. Women and men should have the same power to shape society and their lives. The world's first feminist government is now implementing a policy that increases equality between men and women. Yes, that is what our Prime Minister Stefan Löfven said in his government declaration. That's right, isn't it? In order to cope with today's modern life, we need an equal society in family policy, in working life and in society as a whole. We see problems with parents, mainly women, having difficulty getting the puzzle together. Ill health is increasing. The majority of those on sick leave are women. They are often found in contact professions, i.e. professions that involve an emotional commitment and where there are often irregular working hours. Time's running out. I turn to my question: what does the government do for an equal family policy?
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-380	Madam President, I would like I thank Kerstin Nilsson for that question. It's absolutely central. We also know that it is precisely when you form a family and when you have children that the more accelerating inequalities between men and women arise. It then follows for the rest of your life, and it finally lands in a very unequal pension. Women have on average 30% lower pensions than men. The government is now making efforts in family policy to fold another month in parental insurance. We are also working on directives for a study to take a holistic approach to parental insurance. It's been 40 years since it came into place. We need parental insurance that supports equal parenthood, where men and women take equal responsibility and where it is also the case, as it is in fact, that men and women are almost equally part of the labour market. This is important for women's health. It is important for women's opportunities to live a good life and also to have a good pension.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-382	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. It feels good to confirm that we have a government that takes these issues seriously. Can I also assume, then, that the government is proposing a modern and equal parental insurance that will work in different family constellations?
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-383	Madam President, I would like That is the government's absolute ambition. You can look at a number of parts that have changed a lot since parental insurance came in the 70s. It is about women entering the labour market. In Sweden, we have the world's highest participation rate among women. We shall be extremely proud of that. But it is also a matter of a family not looking or needing to look a certain way today. You can be a single parent. There may be several adults around a child. Today, this does not take parental insurance into account. The issue is complex, but the ambition is that we should have parental insurance that is actually able to lift the star family perspective. I'm looking forward to that.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-386	Madam President, I would like My question is addressed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. According to the Swedish media, Prime Minister Stefan Löfven has made a statement that reads: This concerns paralysis in the UN Security Council. This is said despite the fact that Russia and China have repeatedly used their veto in the Security Council against resolutions designed to put an end to the Syria conflict. This is done despite the fact that the UN Secretary-General has called on the Security Council to look beyond its national interests and stop blocking resolutions. Does the Foreign Minister share the Prime Minister's view that all members of the Security Council have equal responsibility for the paralysis of the Security Council?
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-388	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, Sotiris Delis. For a long time, ever since 2011, the Security Council has been blocked, particularly by the behaviour of Russia and China and the inability to stand up for a solution to the conflict. What we can hope for at present, when there are already 12 million people fleeing a war-torn Syria, is that countries should come to their senses, that they should be persuaded or dragged or pushed on so that they understand that they must take responsibility. Staffan de Mistura has tried various ways, with support from the EU and from a number of countries. And we continue to be both a interlocutor and a support to him. I think the most sensible thing we can do today is to rely on his judgments, contacts and ideas for a way forward. In fact, it also involves mobilising Russia to a more constructive role. It has been contradicted by their military efforts in Syria. But we have to keep up the pressure on them.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-390	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I would like clarification. What is the foreign minister's position on the paralysis of the Security Council in relation to the Syria crisis?
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-391	Madam President, I would like I didn't really understand what Sotiris Delis was asking about. But I will continue with what I think is the most important thing, namely that we continue to work on this political track. We are doing it as individual Member States of the European Union. We do so in the European Union. We do it in direct contact with Staffan de Mistura. We do so in our contacts with the various countries that have a role to play. We do so in public statements, in political diplomacy and in political contacts. And we do so via, so to speak, critical views on the fact that a number of countries have not used their influence constructively. We continue to urge them to help find a solution in Syria, because that is what can also solve the refugee crisis.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-392	Madam President, I would like I ask my question to Minister of Social Security Annika Strandhäll. It's about why the minister is abolishing the gender equality bonus. I and the Center Party cannot understand why the government does so while not following the Riksdag's decision to increase the amount of the gender equality bonus. Instead, the government wishes to regulate parental leave for parents by imposing quotas on a third parent month. The obligation on the carrot is imposed on the parents themselves to contribute to a more equal take-up of parental leave. Why does the government abolish the gender equality bonus, which is actually a way of encouraging a more even withdrawal?
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-394	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Zander for that question. Let me give a very clear and unambiguous answer to that question. We are abolishing the gender equality bonus because it has had no measurable effect whatsoever, i.e. it has not led to parents sharing parental insurance more equally. The almost 1 billion that has been spent on the gender equality bonus since it was introduced, with the sole aim of increasing equality and a more equal withdrawal, has had no effect at all. That's why the government and I are abolishing the gender equality bonus.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-395	Madam President, I would like Then, of course, my question to the Minister is: how long did it take for the quota of parental leave to take effect? It did not happen overnight, and the Minister knows that very well. We know that the withdrawal has become more even between parents in recent years, and it cannot be ignored that the equality bonus has had an effect. Now, instead, the Minister wants to set up an investigation to review parental insurance and make sure it is different. Why do we opt for the abolition of the gender equality bonus instead of, for example, increasing the compensation, as we in the Center Party have proposed? It would give another carrot to the parents. However, the Minister removes insurance policies without listening and instead sets up an investigation. Isn't that doing something backwards?
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-397	Madam President, I would like No, Solveig Zander, it's not. First of all, when the first month of parental insurance was reserved in the mid-1990s, it actually had an immediate effect on how parents divided the days among themselves. We could also see a clear effect when the second month of parental insurance was reserved. This is therefore a very accurate way of getting a more even take-up of parental insurance, which is incredibly important in a modern family life where women also participate fully in working life. It is not only in this way that the gender equality bonus has shown no measurable effect whatsoever. In fact, the evaluations that have been carried out also show that parents do not take that kind of stimulus into account when distributing the days between them. It is not, therefore, a question of financial incentives. That is why we are now choosing to stop this attempt and not to put additional funds there. On the other hand, we need to review the entire parental insurance policy.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-399	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask Minister Ardalan Shekarabi about the government's continued handling of the regional issue. Those of us who have been in this political work for a long time have seen the issue of the region come and go. It is quite exhausted, and much time and effort has been spent in many political assemblies to discuss this matter. The reason for this is that a great deal of energy losses occur in the public system because the administrative system is not adapted to present-day geography, how people live and move and how connections look in public activities. The underlying reason makes us need to do something about this issue. So I wonder: how will it be ensured that there will be a workshop this time?
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-402	Madam President, I would like Sweden has a world-class administration. It has been an example for many countries. But if we are to have world-class governance in the future, we need to work on the modernisation and development of the public sector. We have to work on efficiency efficiency, and we have to maintain equivalence throughout the country. There is broad agreement that the county councils in Sweden are too small to meet the challenges we have in the field of health care, in the area of public transport and in the area of regional development. We have two state investigations that have shown this. Now is the time to move from words to action and work with structural changes in the public sector so that we create an efficient public sector that offers all citizens good welfare that is equal throughout the country. That work has started. Two negotiating persons have been appointed, and they will, in collaboration with the Swedish county councils, municipalities and county boards, produce a proposal for a new regional division to be decided during this term of office.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-405	Madam President, I would like I think it is very important that there be a workshop this time. We've had such processes in motion. There have been investigations, and there have been expectations of different new divisions. Decisions have not been made because you have said that you wait and see what it will be like. I believe that the losses to society, if this were to fall again, would be very great. It is therefore very important for the government to keep up with this process, but also for the government to take control of the state authorities. I think that the political authority's ability to make a division without any political foundation is a terrible example. When it comes to my county of Sörmland, Gnesta municipality, which is part of Stockholm's labour market region, is now part of the same police region as Värnamo, and it feels quite natural.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-408	Madam President, I would like I share Hans Ekström's view that we must also work with the regional division of the state organisation. We need to have a more symmetrical regional division in the state organisation, because our management model is based on collaboration between the state, municipalities and county councils. Then we must also have greater symmetry, and we must ensure that county boundaries follow county boundaries. Then we can also create good conditions between the different political levels in Sweden. The state and the government are responsible for this process. We need to process this reform. We cannot simply leave the matter to the county councils concerned. But we cannot sit and draw the map here in Stockholm, but we must do it together. That is why two negotiators have been appointed. They will make a proposal in close cooperation and in dialogue with all the county councils, county boards and municipalities concerned. This proposal should be well established when we present the reform to Parliament.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-411	Madam President, I would like We have heard Minister Fridolin stand in this pulpit and say that SJ today is overcapitalised. This leads to the conclusion that Fridolin must have taken a crash course in business administration. The government now chooses to drain SJ of nearly SEK 2 billion. Nevertheless, the solidity of SJ is comparable to what it was in January 2014, when the same Fridolin said that a profit withdrawal of SEK 73 million, i.e. 4 per cent of what the government is picking out today, was a kick in the stomach of the Swedish people and that SJ got on its knees. How is SJ overcapitalized today but not then?
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-414	Madam President, I would like SJ follows the rules on, for example, solidity requirements that have been in force for a long time and that not least the alliance government defended. As I understand it, the bourgeois parties still stand for them, while our government has in its government agreement that we want to give SJ an expanded social mission. Such an assignment, for example, could involve reviewing such rules. At the moment, we are following the rules that we perceive to have the support of this House, partly because these are the rules that Mr Bohlin's party defended during its time in the government. That is what makes this a boomerang issue – we are doing what your government wanted us to do and we perceive that the majority of this House wants to do. We would have liked to have done in another way, for example, had an extended community assignment for SJ, and may be able to return to it.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-416	Madam President, I would like It is a hypocrisy of quite a large measure to stand and criticise what the government did a year ago, which is equivalent to 4% of what the government is now making. If the government wants to give SJ another community assignment, it is probably just to give SJ another community assignment, but instead the current government chooses to completely drain SJ by making a withdrawal of almost SEK 2 billion during the current year. We must remember what is history, namely that the Alliance doubled maintenance to the railways while the current government starts by draining SJ on money. Fridolin does not answer my question, that is, how Fridolin could criticize SJ then but today say that SJ – which will have a lower solidity after this drainage – is overcapitalised.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-418	Madam President, I would like I continue to criticise the regulations that are behind how SJ, for example, is governed. We would continue to want a different type of regulation for SJ. On the one hand, it is something that is handled through the state railway investigation that sits and looks at how the railway will be organized in the future, and on the other hand it is something that is about the expanded social mission the government wants to give to SJ but which is also governed by the rules that are bound to Parliament. The question comes back to Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin, for example, and his colleagues in the alliance parties. Then there are very big words used about what the previous government did for the railways. It should be remembered that the alliance government began its time by having a finance minister who said that we had overinvested in rail and heavily built on the maintenance mountain that was already far too large, which has led to major delays. We are investing 61⁄2 billion in railway maintenance in the coming years. Only yesterday we were able to present an investment of 800 million in rural public transport. We are making these investments now, and it will make a difference for Sweden's rail passengers.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-421	That concludes Question Time for the week. I thank the ministers and all the participating Members.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-422	Madam President, I would like Edward Riedl has asked me whether I believe there is a contradiction between expanding Arlanda's capacity to attract more airlines and establishing further intercontinental routes and preserving Bromma airport. In addition, Edward Riedl has asked me how I believe that the likelihood that Arlanda Airport will attract more long routes increases if the airport has to receive the aircraft transferred there from Bromma airport after it has been decommissioned. Since the two amendments concern essentially the same question, I answer them in a context. First of all, let me emphasise once again that no decision has been taken to phase out Bromma airport. I share Edward Riedl's view that the Stockholm region is a growth engine for the whole country and that good air connections to and from Stockholm are therefore important. As Edward Riedl is well aware, the Government has appointed a coordinator with the task of testing the conditions for developing air capacity and increasing opportunities for housing in the Stockholm region. Within his mission, the coordinator will, among other things, test the conditions for developing the capacity as well as securing both the flight capacity Bromma currently stands for and the flight capacity Bromma is expected to provide during the period up to 20 38 through primarily an expansion of Arlanda Airport and, in the second place, an extension of the flight to and from other Stockholm nearby airports. The impact on accessibility throughout the country shall be taken into account, and the impact on Arlanda's competitiveness as an international airport shall be assessed – as well as the environmental impact of the overall air traffic. This assignment shall be reported by 20 October 2016. As regards the future development of Arlanda and the strategic work on the establishment of direct routes to and from the airport, this is primarily a matter for Swedavia AB. The company has the task of owning, operating and developing the national base offering of airports, including Arlanda and Bromma. Pending the coordinator reporting his mission to the Government, my assessment is that an increased traffic volume at Arlanda should reasonably increase the conditions for the establishment of more direct lines from there.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-429	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Infrastructure for his answer. Unfortunately, the Minister has chosen not to answer the two questions I have asked, but let me begin by commenting on some of what the Minister said in what should have been an answer. The Minister says once again that there are no plans to phase out Bromma airport, despite the fact that the government has appointed a negotiating person with precisely the mission to phase out Bromma airport. If such a function is added, there is, of course, the possibility for those around them to assume that the government has an idea of closing down Bromma airport. Some of the members of the Minister's party are much more outspoken about the direction they want to take. The investigation, which has no support in the Swedish Parliament, spends 3 – 4 million SEK on investigating something Parliament will not accept in the next situation. There are two announcements, and a united constitutional committee has punctured the government in relation to the appointment of this negotiator. What is perhaps most serious, however, is that, despite the fact that you do not have support in the Riksdag, you create an enormous amount of uncertainty in Swedish aviation through your actions. The Minister also says that she does not see that the future development of Arlanda and the strategic work is anything but a matter for Swedavia alone. Then it may be good to know that Swedavia AB is a wholly owned state-owned company. It is clear that the owner, in the form of the government, can reasonably have some views on how to want these things to develop. In particular, the Minister for Infrastructure should be one of the people in the government who have a lot of views on how Swedish flights will develop and how the intercontinental routes will develop. However, the Minister chooses not to touch on this, and I find that very sad. I repeat my two questions to see if the Minister has an answer now instead. The first question is simply whether the Minister for Infrastructure sees any likelihood that Arlanda Airport can attract more long routes if you move over any capacity currently available at Bromma Airport. Is it possible to continue developing Arlanda Airport if Bromma airport is closed? It suddenly gets very full at Arlanda in that case. The second question I put to the Minister for Infrastructure is whether she sees that there is any contradiction when it comes to expanding Arlanda's capacity. It is important to say that we agree that we will continue to develop Arlanda Airport; it is a very important airport for the whole of Sweden. Is there any contradiction in expanding Arlanda's capacity while preserving Bromma airport to manage some of the domestic flights? I have asked these two questions, but I do not think I have received any kind of satisfactory answer from the Minister.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-437	Madam President, I would like This is an issue that we have discussed and debated a number of times in the last parliamentary year. Since we now have a new parliamentary year, we must start again. I can agree with Edvard Ried I that perhaps he did not get much answers to his questions. However, the answer once again underlines that no decision has been taken to phase out Bromma airport. Somehow it feels like a mantra that is repeated. I do not really know how to interpret it, if there is really something going on, and do not know what the government wants fundamentally. First of all, like Edvard Riedl, we can state that we have made an announcement here in Parliament. This means that there is a majority in Parliament that does not support the process of looking at the closure of Bromma airport. We have discussed whether it has any constitutional value, and perhaps we can leave it at that. But not for nothing, there is actually a majority here in Parliament – whatever it can lead to. What the coordinator said quite early on was that he could not see that in the near future it is possible to close Bromma airport. I understood it then that Sundström talked about the time until 2038 and that before then it is not really relevant. Now we have a period until 20 October 2016, and it is clear that it is not an eternal time. At the same time, however, there is uncertainty about what is actually happening and what the government basically wants here. I suppose it can stand to repeat the arguments we had last parliamentary year. We put the aviation perspective towards the housing perspective and, after all, were quite agreed that this is a national issue and not a local housing policy issue in Stockholm. Then, of course, I am the first to support the fact that there is a problem with the housing shortage in Stockholm and that it must be solved. However, the analyses carried out show that this is not the quick solution to the housing shortage in Stockholm, but it must be solved in another way. There is a system of thinking in housing construction, but we are not going to discuss that today. But I would like to point out once again, so that we do not lose it, that there is no contradiction between Arlanda airport and Bromma airport. I find it hard to see that there would be. Bromma airport is the hub of regional air traffic in Sweden, and this fact has not changed since we last discussed the issue.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-444	Madam President, I would like As Lars Tysklind pointed out, this is a favourite replay. I have stood in this speaker's chair and explained the government's position on this matter countless times by now, and I will do it very much again. The Government has chosen to ask a coordinator to look at how to both maintain current air traffic capacity in Stockholm and meet future capacity needs for air traffic to and from Stockholm and whether it is possible to combine with releasing the location where Bromma airport currently exists for residential purposes. That's what there is. So there is no decision to close Bromma. Nor is there an investigation mission to close down Bromma. There is a mission to see if it is possible to move the operations currently in place at Bromma airport to Arlanda Airport or other nearby airports, maintain current capacity and meet future capacity needs. To this can be added that Stockholm is a fairly small city in the world. It is clear that if you have two airports as close as you can, the travel data at the large international airport will be slightly smaller than if you had gathered the traffic to one place. If we look at how air traffic in the world develops, we see that a number of airports, both very close to Sweden and in Continental Europe, develop into clear transit airports where traffic is collected in one place because it provides a travel data that motivates airlines to establish routes. I do not believe that the importance of the positive development of Arlanda Airport can be overestimated. This is about Sweden's competitiveness by enabling us to develop our tourism industry in Sweden. We probably cannot expect people to be able to fly directly from large parts of the world to every airport in Sweden, but we need enough power around someone or a couple of airports to get that power in the tourism industry. But it is also about our ability to attract companies, both new companies that we want to establish in Sweden and companies that already exist here with their headquarters, which we all know is an extremely important function in maintaining Sweden's competitiveness. In this perspective, it is of course important that we have an attractive international airport in the capital of Sweden that makes it attractive to establish or maintain headquarters in this region and in Sweden. If we think that it is not only in Stockholm that the headquarters should be able to be located, but around Sweden, Arlanda's function as a transit airport also becomes out to the regions perhaps more crucial than we are currently truly prisoners. I think it is worth making those arguments. Then I know that it is extremely problematic with Arlanda based on environmental permits, expansion opportunities and everything else. However, if we are now to talk about flight capacity and the role of aviation in a future transport system and also the role of aviation in future jobs and environmental impact, I think it is reasonable to address these issues as well. But we can't let go of the constant return to Bromma airport in the very near future, because it's getting a little nagging.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-451	Madam President, I would like Let me start by saying that I am the first not to want to be a bitch in this House. It could easily be achieved if the government we have in Sweden listened to the majority in parliament. Then we wouldn't have to be so nagging with the government. There is, of course, an opportunity for the government to listen to what the Riksdag says. And we have said two times in Parliament that you should not have this negotiator. We also have a united constitutional committee that has condemned the government on this point, that is to say, it has criticised the government very strongly for the appointment of the negotiator. So there is a good chance that the government will not have to stand here and think it will be nagging. Listen to the Swedish Parliament! That's what the government is supposed to do. I have asked and will continue to ask questions about how aviation can develop in Sweden, and the Minister has the opportunity to actually answer the questions I ask. Then I don't have to ask about the questions. It'll be so much easier then. I ask them again: what does the government really want with Bromma airport? You say that there is no danger that you want Bromma airport to remain, but you are setting up negotiators to phase out the airport. It makes it a little difficult for an outsider to see what the government wants. There is a great deal of uncertainty in the country on this particular point, and you have a good chance of alleviating that concern. What does the Minister himself want with Bromma airport? There are good opportunities to give an answer in this House. Does the Minister see any problems in creating this uncertainty? These are questions that the Minister has the full opportunity to answer in this House. If we then turn to the substance of the matter, the reason why this historically weak government does not have support in the Swedish parliament is quite simple. It will be crowded at Arlanda if we are to take down all aircraft in peak time in the Stockholm region at a single airport, as it looks today. Then it'll be full. One cannot smudge flight availability over all hours of the day, as some on the government side want to highlight, for those who are going to the Stockholm region for a meeting and home from the meeting the same day want to arrive during a certain part of the day. That is, there are pektides in the morning and in the afternoon/evening when everyone wants to travel. That is when you need to have good access to the capital, and that is what we will achieve with the two airports in the way it looks today. The Minister says you want to develop Arlanda Airport. Let me remind you that the biggest threat to the development of Arlanda Airport is not domestic policy, but the competition airports around us: Helsinki, Copenhagen and Oslo. There are aggressive airlines trying to develop and feed traffic to these airports. The single biggest threat to the development of Arlanda Airport is a flight tax. If the Minister seriously believes that there is an ambition to develop Arlanda Airport, let us not have to read on Monday that the government intends to introduce a flight tax.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-458	Madam President, I would like I have to agree that it's a replay. I don't know if it's a favorite but it's a replay. I can also agree with the Minister that we can put this debate aside because no decisions have been taken. But should we interpret that as not going to be decided either? If so, why is this whole process going on, which has been discussed in Parliament on several occasions? If we are to be able to put the debate aside, the Minister must be very clear that it is not on the agenda to close down Bromma airport in the next few decades, in any case – perhaps ever – is to be taken on board. That is about the message the coordinator gives. However, we have not heard it from the Minister. But there is an opportunity, and then we may have to take that message as a message. We fully agree that it is a good thing that we have a large international airport in Stockholm with all its benefits. Swedavia has a huge task here in matching other airports in our vicinity with direct lines and so on. Bromma plays a completely different role today and in the next few decades. It is an airport for the destination of Stockholm and not an international airport. With a little more clarity from the Minister, we could put the discussion aside. The answer clearly states that no decision has been taken. But the question is whether a decision will be taken. This clarity is more important.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-465	Madam President, I would like Let me say a big thank-you to the government. It was very good that the government appointed the coordinator. In the Riksdag we often end up in a discussion about Brommas be or not be, but in the long run it is not about Stockholm or Bromma airport but about our country's competitiveness. If we see it in this perspective, it is not reasonable to have two airports. That is why it is good to look at this very point of view from the point of view of growth. Scandinavia has more than 20 million inhabitants, and Stockholm is outstanding the largest city. The region has almost 2.2 million inhabitants. Oslo and Copenhagen each have 1.2 million and Helsinki about 1 million in population. But if we look at which airports are the largest and have the most passengers, it is not Stockholm. We'll be in third place first. Both Copenhagen and Oslo have considerably more passengers than Arlanda. It is a great danger to our competitiveness. The big companies of course choose to put their Scandinavia offices where there are most air connections. The fourth largest, just after Stockholm, is Helsinki Airport, and it has the most long-distance routes of all Scandinavian airports. We are therefore lagging behind, and in the Swedish Parliament we should be able to focus on Swedish competitiveness. With all due respect, Madam President, I would argue that Parliament is not always rational. How can a decision be made that a coordinator should not be appointed to review Swedish competitiveness? The most important task of this Assembly every day should be to ensure that our country can stand firm in international and Scandinavian competition. That is why we must have an airport that stands by comparison, but we do not have that today. Arlanda falls again and again. Instead, we end up in this room in a discussion about whether we should have fast and comfortable transports to and from the Swedish Parliament. But that's not what it's all about. It is just as fast and easy to get to and from Arlanda. The discussion about pektides is almost silly. It's in ten minutes. If we postpone peak time and put it in 20 minutes instead, we would be able to fill it without problems. Based on the peak discussion, moving your flight from Bromma to Arlanda is not a major problem today. What we should focus on is not Bromma's being or not being, but it is Sweden's competitiveness, how we stand internationally and how we will manage in the future. If we do not, we can close the other discussions on how to create jobs and new jobs in our country.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-475	Madam President, I would like I dare to say that although Edward Riedl and Lars Tysklind have not understood the government's position on this matter, the vast majority of people outside this Chamber with whom I have spoken seem to have understood the government's position on this issue. However, I would like to explain it once again: the government believes that Bromma should not be shut down unless it can be done with the maintenance of current capacity and that future capacity needs are also met. Let me say it again: we will not advocate the closure of Bromma if it means that current or future capacity requirements for flights between Stockholm and the rest of the country cannot be met. I hope that this will further clarify this and that it will eventually fall into this Chamber as well. The coordinator Anders Sundström will, among other things, look at whether you can transfer the traffic currently available at Bromma to Arlanda with the current capacity at Arlanda. Then you have to take into account what there are for expansion possibilities at Arlanda. What is required for investments to enable Arlanda to take over this capacity? What are the consequences when we have high speed rail between our three largest cities, hopefully with connection to Arlanda? What are the consequences for domestic flights if travel from large parts of South Sweden can be made by short-haul trains and direct connections to an international airport? These are issues that need to be addressed to a greater extent. Therefore, it would have been gratifying if the bourgeois members of the Riksdag stopped hugging Bromma and instead began to discuss how we can strengthen Sweden's competitiveness by making strategic choices for aviation in Sweden. The government has begun work on a flight strategy. It will be exciting to learn how all the stakeholders that exist – regions, different stakeholder organisations, environmental movements and aviation actors – look at the development of aviation, how we can reduce environmental impact and how we can increase connectivity within Sweden but above all with other parts of the world, i.e. the important export markets where we need to be. We need to be there in order for the Swedish companies to be successful in their exports. We also need to be able to attract companies so that they put their businesses and offices here. In this, aviation is of crucial importance, but Bromma airport as a physical location actually has very little to do with that issue. What it's all about is meeting flight capacity. That is what we will spend time on, not a physical place in Stockholm.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-483	Madam President, I would like The Minister wants us to talk about what strategic choices we should make to develop aviation in Sweden. Then let me be clear. A completely integrated Swedish aeronautics and aviation industry says one thing: Do not introduce any air tax! It would be the single largest wet blanket over the possibilities of developing Swedish aviation. We will see on Monday whether the Minister is serious about something she says here in the speaker's chair. Let's talk about Swedish competitiveness! I agree, and I have brought up those very parts myself. Copenhagen, Oslo and Helsinki also have competing airports. If these airports are allowed to grow stronger than Arlanda, it means that head offices for large companies that are going to establish themselves in Scandinavia do not end up in Stockholm and do not end up in Sweden. Then we're in trouble. Teres Lindberg from the Social Democrats even goes so far as to say that we have fallen behind. I absolutely agree. But let's talk about how we develop Swedish aviation, not how we create problems for aviation! That should be what we're going to discuss. If the problem is that we are lagging behind, let us not put the hookbones for Swedish flights in the way you want to do! Teres Lindberg also says that she thinks that the debate on pacifiers is silly. Yes, it may seem silly. I can then tell those who listen to the debate that Teres Lindberg himself comes from Stockholm and sees no problem in that people from other parts of the country may have to put one or two hotel nights here instead of going over the day to the capital for meetings. You can afford that luxury when you live in the metropolitan area. I would like to thank the Minister for the debate. In view of the answers we have received, we will return. I am not satisfied with the view on the development of aviation. We will probably have many debates here in the future. However, with better answers, we will be free from these debates in this House.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-488	Madam President, I would like I have a clarification about the peak times. It is 10 – 15 minutes when the peak is full. If, instead, you can fly five or ten minutes earlier or later, I don't think it matters that much. This does not mean an overnight stay in Stockholm if you fly over the day. I want it to be very clear. That is why I think this discussion is becoming a little silly. I want to give a perspective on what these issues are about. When we talk about Sweden's competitiveness and our growth opportunities, it is not possible to turn a blind eye to the fact that the capital Stockholm is the growth engine. If Stockholm is not doing well, the rest of the country is not doing well either. I do not think that I, as a stockholmer, am the only one to say so, but most of them both in Sweden and in our country are prepared to sign up to this. When international institutes look at what growth problems there are in Stockholm, there are two things. One is that there is no linked labour market region, and this is mainly the case for travel by air, rail and other modes of transport. The second, and perhaps most important, is the lack of housing. These questions are interrelated, whether we like it or not, and regardless of what we think of Bromma. The upgrade made by Bromma Airport to a 2C airport has placed a construction ban on very large parts of both Stockholm municipality and the crane municipalities around, where you can no longer build on the height. There are very many construction projects that are standing still right now and that will not be able to be implemented due to the development, upgrading and the expanded flight on Bromma. The questions are connected. In the end, it is we in Sweden who lose competitiveness vis-à-vis other countries.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-492	Madam President, I would like The question of airline tax or not, I guess I missed the interpellations. It wasn't there what I could tell. There was a question of whether there is competition between Arlanda and Bromma, and I have answered that. Nevertheless, I think that we are moving in this discussion in a way that means that we might actually get to a situation where we can start discussing more strategic issues for aviation – not crampingly clinging to a physical place in Stockholm but talking about how we can develop aviation, so that we get a better connectivity with our important export markets, can develop Swedish tourism, can get better connections from the rest of the country via Stockholm out into the world and at the same time can reduce the climate impact for both aviation and the transport sector as a whole. That's a bet that we have to work with all of them. As I said, we have moved forward in the debate. We may be approaching a more strategic approach eventually. I look forward to continuing to discuss the role of aviation in future competitiveness for Sweden.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-495	Madam President, I would like Edward Riedl has asked me how I intend to deal with the announcement to review the possibilities for the aviation industry to bear the costs of oversight and proceed with the matter. In my opinion, the reform of the Transport Agency's funding carried out by the previous government in 2011 was reasonable. The main principle that applies is that the fees charged by the authority for, inter alia, supervision are based on the principle of cost-effectiveness. This applies to all modes of traffic. The same rules of the game for all contribute to fairness between the traffic law. At the same time, I agree with Edward Riedl that exceptions may be needed. There are market segments that are not in a position to bear the full cost of the Swedish Transport Agency's supervision. Therefore, I also believe that the possibilities for the Swedish Transport Agency to subsidise the charges for certain groups introduced in 2013 are reasonable. As I am sure Edward Riedl knows, this applies, among other things, to certain groups in the field of aviation, but also to groups in other modes of transport. Of course, it is not obvious that the analyses carried out in 2013 are quite right today. I see it as natural to monitor at regular intervals how an authority applies the authorisations it has received and how it has fallen out. The government therefore decided only last week to instruct the Swedish Transport Agency to do such a follow-up. The mission has a broad approach and does not focus on any particular type of traffic or any previously identified group. If the analysis shows that this is justified, the Swedish Transport Agency may propose changes to the application or to the authorisations themselves. The assignment shall be presented by 31 March 2016.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-499	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. I asked the Minister how she intends to deal with Parliament's announcement to review the possibilities for the aviation industry to bear the costs of oversight. I have to say that I feel that the Minister's reply to some extent feels casual to the announcement made by the Swedish Parliament to the Government. I find that sad, frankly. On this issue, despite a clear majority against the government, we chose to sit down and talk with the Minister's own party, the Social Democrats, in order to find a satisfactory solution to the issue itself. The Swedish Transport Agency previously froze the planned increases in government fees, which the Minister read out in his reply. But now the Swedish Transport Agency has announced that it will continue to reduce the government fee, this time from SEK 6 to SEK 5. This is despite the fact that the motion that I initiated the 2014/ 2015 parliamentary year was partly approved by the Swedish parliament when we discussed how we should proceed with this. I think this is really boring and I just want to ask the Minister how she feels she is acting. Is she acting in the spirit of the announcement based on what we sat down and discussed?
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-502	Madam President, I would like The motion referred to by Edward Riedl was accepted in part, as Mr Riedl also says. The parts of the motion that were approved and that then came to be included in the Riksdag's announcement to the Government, I believe we have taken care of with the fact that we are now giving the Swedish Transport Agency the task of reviewing how to charge public authority fees. The Swedish Transport Agency collects fees for supervision where the person subject to supervision has to pay in order to obtain a cost recovery. Then there is an administrative fee that everyone who works in the area pays to the agency. Turns out it looks a little different. Some accounts have a surplus and others a deficit. Overall, the Swedish Transport Agency needs to review it so that it has cost recovery where it should have it, that it can exclude those segments of the market that are not in a position to bear the costs and that overall it receives a revenue stream that corresponds to what the authority should have. It is the task of the Swedish Transport Agency to review its supervisory and regulatory fees in order to achieve the right balance. I hope that Edward Riedl will eventually be satisfied with the outcome of the mission when the Transport Agency returns this. The aim is, of course, to have fees that are both fair and transparent and that ensure that there are the right conditions of competition and the right cost recovery for the Swedish Transport Agency. As I said, that is the intention of the mission that the government has put in place.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-507	Madam President, I would like As the Minister points out, the reason why the motion was partly approved was that we involved the Minister's own party in the discussions. From the beginning, the motion was supposed to be fully approved, but we agreed with the Minister's Party of Social Democrats to partially approve it and resolve the issue. If you're going to be able to hold hands and trust each other, it has to work all the way. I don't think it's a strangely long investigation period. You need to have that time, and I have no criticism of the Minister in this. March 2016 is quite fast work, but there is time to happen a lot along the way, especially if you have government agencies working in exactly the opposite direction to what the announcement gave reasons for. Former governments have frozen the government fee based on the fact that we forced Swedish companies out of the market because of it. It is quite possible to have the levy frozen pending its submission. My question to the Minister is this: would it not be reasonable for the government fee to be frozen until the investigation is completed, rather than placing an additional burden on the load, pending the outcome of the investigation? I think that would be reasonable. I would like the Minister to be able to assume his responsibilities in this case and ensure that we do not force Swedish companies to flag out of Sweden pending this.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-511	Madam President, I would like Edward Riedl can be completely calm. The handshake, the agreement and the conversation we had about the announcement apply. I am pleased to note that the Government has explained what the investigation mission is about. I don't really understand what Edward Riedl thinks the problem is. Our government is now evaluating what the previous government imposed on the advice of Edward Riedl. I think that's good. One must of course see if the bill adopted by Parliament in 2010 and presented by the Government of Edward Riedl was so successful. I think the investigation mission is quite excellent and very clear. In addition, it states that a statement should be provided as to whether, on the basis of an overall assessment, there are grounds for amending in some cases the application of the exemptions from the principle of full cost recovery. Together with the other three indents, this covers the whole problem. None of us, neither I, Edward Riedl, Anna Johansson or anyone else in this room, want Swedish air carriers to flag out. That is definitely not the case. It can be a little tricky for an uninvited person to understand what we're talking about. It is usually positive if an authority wants to reduce its fee, but in this case we talk as if it would be a very bad thing to lower from the current SEK 6 per passenger to SEK 5. This is simply because the Swedish Transport Agency has become very effective. You kind of don't spend more money, and you'd rather not withdraw more money than what you make of me d. This money has paid other activities that are probably so important for aviation and that can be very heavily burdened if you are to take them out in other ways. But you cannot link it as clearly as Edward Riedl did in his first speech. Just because the administrative fee is reduced will not automatically increase the supervisory fee. There is no direct connection there, I want to make that clear. I think we have a deal. I know we are, Edward Riedl. The announcement addressed to the Government is hereby made to the satisfaction of the Government.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-518	Madam President, I would like Pia Nilsson has well explained both what the agreement between the parties looked like and what the facts were. This is a rather technical and not quite impenetrable matter. However, I would like to make it clear that it is not communication vessels between the different types of charges levied by the Swedish Transport Agency, that is to say, if one is raised, one will lower the other and vice versa. Each type of fee has completely different functions and is built in completely different ways. This means that if one fee is reduced, there will not automatically be an increase in the other. I would like to point out that the authority, with the authorisation it already has, has the opportunity to deviate from the principle and to give companies or operators a discount on the fee if it is assessed that there are operators who cannot bear the cost for various reasons. No one has taken this authorisation from the Swedish Transport Agency, but it is perfectly possible to continue working in this way also during the investigation. As I said in my first speech that the announcement that the government has received from Parliament has been taken care of, as we have put this investigative mission with this broad approach, in which we capture the problem raised by Edward Riedl in the interpellation. Eventually, the Swedish Transport Agency will return with a response to the investigation about how it intends to manage its fee financing in the future and ensure that the different fees do not cross-subsidise each other. This is not allowed under EU law, and that is why we want the Swedish Transport Agency to clarify how it should proceed in the future.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-523	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Pia Nilsson, for the handshake! Sounds good. This means that we can continue to talk to each other. Then what's the problem? Yes, it is as follows. The resistance was partly agreed with the intention to improve for companies pending the government's compliance with what the Parliament told it, that is to say, to review this. In the meantime, it took the opportunity to deteriorate for companies. I see that as a problem. If there were no increases in fees for the various companies, it would not be a problem, but unfortunately this is not the case. We have a lot of companies that live on the line because the fees have run out in recent years. It's the concern. I call on the Minister and her party colleagues to visit these companies. They are helicopter schools, various activities in aviation and others. Visit them! Look at their balance sheets! They are happy to show what it looks like and how the fees have beaten and wiped out all profits and allow them to borrow money in practice today in order to manage their business. That is my call to you. I hope that the Minister accepts his responsibility and freezes the government fee while the investigation is under way. It's quite possible. The former minister did. It was indeed moderate, but I believe that even a social democrat is able to do so when he is in a position of government. Otherwise, I can only say that I am pleased that the Government has listened to Parliament and set up this inquiry. The hope is that in the end we will end up on exactly the same foot, that there can be something good about this. But let us not destroy on the way there! That is my call to the government.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-529	Madam President, I would like Very short: Thank you, Edward Riedl! The handshake is on. We have a deal. The announcement is complete. Now we are waiting for results and of course we also hope that we can work as well together on other issues.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-530	Madam President, I would like I assume, of course, that the Swedish Transport Agency will act as a responsible authority and will be in close contact with the companies affected by these charges and that, while the investigation is under way, there will be no dramatic deterioration. It is already under the authority of the Authority. But how these fees are to be charged then lies in the investigation, and there comes Transportstyrelsen back. I do not really see that there is such a difference of opinion on this issue. I believe that both Edward Riedl and we in the government want the Swedish Transport Agency to receive funding for its operations, that we should have competitive neutrality between modes of transport and that there should continue to be an opportunity for the Swedish Transport Agency to exempt certain segments that have difficulties in bearing the costs. We are now giving a mission to the Swedish Transport Agency to review how this can be achieved, and I look forward to eventually receiving the results of that investigation.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-533	Madam President, I would like Jessica Rosencrantz has asked me whether I think it reasonable that shipping and its private companies should finance rescue operations on land and whether I intend to take any action in response to the decision of the Swedish Maritime Administration. I would like to begin by emphasising that the Swedish Maritime Administration is the responsible authority for maritime and air rescue within the Swedish area of responsibility according to the Act(2003:778) on protection against accidents and the Regulation(2003:789) on protection against accidents. A state grant is paid for reimbursement of the expenses incurred by the Swedish Maritime Administration for the costs incurred in various sea rescue missions that are outside the liability of merchant shipping but are within its responsibility. According to the Accident Protection Act, state resources must be available when municipal rescue services need them. It is true that Jessica Rosencrantz writes that the Swedish Maritime Administration decided in June this year that the Swedish Maritime Administration's helicopter resources should be available to the municipal rescue services free of charge under certain given conditions in accordance with the Act(2003:778) on protection against accidents. If the decision of the Swedish Maritime Administration results in a significant increase in the number of helicopter operations for various municipal civil protection operations, there may be reason to come back on this issue.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-537	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I can begin by emphasising that the most important thing always, as in this case, is to save lives and that it must have the highest priority. If it has been the case that municipalities have said no to rescue operations for cost reasons, where the Swedish Maritime Administration's helicopters could have made a difference, that is of course not good. But the discussion must be about how the financing of these rescue operations should be done – not whether or not they should be carried out. Madam President, I would like The decision of the Swedish Maritime Administration raises some fundamental questions. The decision that municipalities should no longer have to pay to use the rescue helicopters raises fundamental questions because the Swedish Maritime Administration is a business, primarily financed by Swedish shipping. On the other hand, municipal rescue services are tax-financed. It is doubtful, Madam President, whether Swedish shipping should be charged with the costs of rescue operations on land. We have stood in this House countless times and discussed the fact that we have a Swedish shipping industry that is heavily burdened and exposed to tough competition and cost pressure. Over the past few years, we have carried out a number of reforms during the time of the Alliance Government in the form of an action plan and a maritime strategy initiated by the Alliance Government, precisely because Swedish shipping is under great cost pressure. Then I would like to ask in this House how the Government views the long-term impact of this decision. It cannot be ruled out that the number of municipal rescue operations involving the Swedish Maritime Administration's helicopters will increase over time, which will increase the cost of commercial shipping.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-542	Madam President, I would like This is an issue where one can possibly think about which end to start with. It is clear that one can begin with the fact that the new decision of the Swedish Maritime Administration in June was wrong. But one can also consider whether the previous decision, that the municipalities should be invoiced for helicopter operations, was possibly wrong. There is a law that stipulates that the Swedish Maritime Administration has a responsibility to take, where the municipalities should not be charged with costs. The proposal made here by Jessica Rosencrantz is that the municipalities should continue to be liable for payment. I would say that it is doubtful whether it is compatible with the legislation that exists in this area. Therefore, I believe that the order applied by the Swedish Maritime Administration from June – following strong criticism from Sweden's Municipalities and County Councils among other things – is a system that is wise and should continue. However, I also say in my reply that, should it turn out that the operation is very extensive and gives rise to costs that are unduly charged to the fairway fees that pay part of the Swedish Maritime Administration's efforts, it must of course be considered. However, the legislation is clear that municipalities should be able to call off this additional service free of charge. It is also not reasonable for the Swedish Maritime Administration to make a different assessment. I believe that the assessment made by the Swedish Maritime Administration in June of this year is the one that is best in line with the legislation, and one can well agree that it is quite good.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-546	Madam President, I would like I'm not saying that the municipalities should pay. However, when imposing a new cost on the industry, one must actually consider whether the Swedish Maritime Administration's decision is the best financing model. It raises some fundamental questions. If you have a business, where the industry pays in the form of fees, you must also ensure that the money does not go to a lot of other things. This may not be one of the major political dividing lines. But I think it's an important principled question how to handle our business. I have to come back to the debates that we have had in this House in the past – everything is connected. We see how Swedish ships flag out, how shipping companies choose to leave Sweden, that they are not satisfied with the conditions of competition or simply do not think that Sweden is the best shipping country to operate in. When we in this House have voted through a number of different proposals, on the basis of the Alliance Government's action plan for a stronger shipping industry, and when the Alliance Government took the initiative and the new Government followed up on the maritime strategy, we must see this discussion in the light of it. The Alliance government contributed SEK 45 million annually to the Swedish Maritime Administration in order to avoid taking responsibility for sea and air rescue operations that were not about the industry but about the civil public. But it was before the Swedish Maritime Administration's decision that municipalities should be allowed to use the work's helicopters free of charge. I am concerned, Madam President, that the effort made by the Alliance Government to ensure the strengthening of the Swedish shipping industry is being eroded and that we are now back to square one again, where an already under pressure shipping industry is funding efforts that should be funded by the public. I can ask the Government if it has been investigated whether there can be any better alternative financing models than for the Swedish shipping industry to pay for rescue operations on land.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-552	Madam President, I would like I have not been given any indication that the fairway charges today go to finance rescue operations on land. The Swedish Maritime Administration estimates that the total amount is a couple of hundred thousand SEK per year. The probability that it is within the allocation of 45 million is certainly relatively high. Should it turn out that these costs are increasing, that they are not within the scope of the budget or that this becomes a burden on what is being collected in fairway fees, I repeat my position from the reply that we are prepared to review another funding. But there is nothing at present to indicate that there is such a need. Now that we are talking about maritime transport in general, I would also like to say that we are talking about a cost per year for the entire Maritime Administration in the order of a few hundred thousand. The Parliament will take a budget decision in a few weeks' time to introduce a tonnage tax, and I think, with all due respect for the importance of this issue, that the introduction of a tonnage tax is a slightly more important decision in our efforts to strengthen Swedish maritime competitiveness and also to provide it with a level playing field with other countries to which many ships have so far been flagged. I look forward to a strong shipping industry that with good conditions of competition, a good regulatory framework and now also tonnage tax will be able to grow and flourish and contribute to increased growth in Sweden. I dare venture to say that these rescue operations are not what Swedish shipping stands and falls into. If it is the case that this cost increases, that there is a passover of costs to those who pay the fairway fee, we are prepared to look at it. So there is no need to panic on this issue.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-556	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I can say that I welcome the fact that the government has received well the report on tonnage that the Alliance Government set up and has taken up many of the conclusions in it. I also believe that this is an important issue for the Swedish shipping industry, but I am also well aware that the Swedish shipping industry is calling for a broad approach to these issues. They want Sweden to be a strong maritime nation, and they want Swedish politics to take a holistic approach to the Swedish shipping industry. That is why I do not think we should go over the small issues and see them in a wider context. I welcome what the Government says about its intention to follow developments forward, and I think it is good to have some flexibility and attention there, not least because it is an important question of principle as to how it should actually be done when our Swedish industries pay contributions and other things so that we can ensure that that money goes to the right things. I hope and expect, of course, that the government will not try to use the shipping industry as a cash cow, either in this case or in other cases, to finance operations that should be the responsibility of the public. Having said that, we must both follow developments and work together to ensure that Swedish shipping has good competitive conditions.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-560	Mr President, I would like to I can make it clear that the investigation mission put forward by the bourgeois government concerning tonnage tax meant that the entire tonnage tax would be financed in the shipping industry. The current government, S, MP and with the support of V, has instead decided that half the cost will be added, i.e. it will be a plus factor of 25 million for the shipping industry in addition to what will then be able to strengthen its competitiveness. In the maritime strategy that was presented just two weeks ago, we have announced that we intend to come back with a comprehensive strategy for shipping, for the maritime strategy covers much more industries and areas, not least issues of climate, housing, tourism, fishing and everything else. But shipping in particular needs special attention, and we intend to come back to this issue. I repeat that this would involve difficulties, we are prepared to review the issue, but there is nothing at present to suggest that this is the case.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-563	Mr President, I would like to Lotta Finstorp has asked me whether I intend to commission Försäkringskassan to investigate the reason why the number of accidents at work and occupational injury trials is decreasing. Occupational injury annuity is granted to a person who, because of an occupational injury, receives a reduction in his or her ability to earn at least one fifteenth of his or her income. The reduction in work capacity shall be assessed as lasting for at least one year. Before 1 July 2008, sickness benefit could be granted if an individual's work capacity was deemed to be reduced for at least one year, i.e. the same duration requirements as for an occupational injury rate. Therefore, benefits were often tested at the same time. When the former government abolished the fixed-term sickness benefit, this link ceased. No analysis of the impact on occupational injury insurance was carried out. LO-TCO Legal Protection AB believes that there is a risk that people are now missing out on applying for an annuity in the absence of a natural time to raise the question of annuity. LO-TCO Legal Protection AB has therefore proposed that the issue of annuity should be raised at a fixed time during a sick period. Without taking a position on this proposal itself, I think there is reason to try ways of preventing people from making legal losses. The social security inspection is currently examining the duration requirement for occupational injury insurance, and the parliamentary social insurance inquiry also had proposals in the field of occupational injury insurance. At present, the investigation proposal is being prepared within the department, and I intend to come back on these issues.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-569	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Swedish work injury insurance was established more than 100 years ago. At that time, the risk of sudden accidents at work was significant compared to today when a significantly higher share of the labour force is present in the services sector. Working life has changed considerably and the causal link between injury, mental illness and work is much more complex today. The interface between work and private life is not always clear. Not infrequently, there may be underlying factors in the individual's life that have contributed to ill health that emerges at work. As the labour market has changed rapidly, occupational injury insurance has sometimes been seen as inflexible. It's based on old truths. For the individual, the application is often unpredictable and not always legally certain, because you do not know what to expect from the insurance. During the years we worked with Soc ialförsäkringsförsäkringen we also had a focus on occupational injury insurance. We had information from the Swedish Labour Inspectorate, the Swedish National Audit Office, the Ins pection for social security and the Swedish Social Insurance Agency. The reports revealed shortcomings in the distribution between women's and men's granting of an occupational injury rate, despite the fact that a lighter rule of proof was introduced in 2002 precisely so that it would be more equal. It hasn't helped. It can be seen that the distribution in terms of the level of allowance is about 24% for women and 39% for men. The medical evidence governs the granting rate in the case of annuity. This leads to different outcomes for women and men, because men are the norm in insurance. When you look at the granting rate for men and women in male-dominated occupations, it is almost the same. That says quite a lot, I think. In addition, there are more studies, in research and so on, focusing on male-dominated occupations than the corresponding ones for women. Enhanced research and assessment support that is updated with new knowledge is therefore needed, not least within mental illness and problems with the movement organs among women. This is why the Social Insurance Survey proposes that knowledge compilations and relevant research should form the basis for a changing list of benefits-based diseases, a living list that follows on from time when it comes to work-related injuries and diseases. It would, according to the proposal in the investigation, be an occupational medical council, in cooperation with the SBU, which would be responsible for this. We also looked at what the Nordic neighbours' occupational injury insurance looks like. Among other things, we were in Finland looking at their occupational injury insurance that is incentive-driven. There is, like carrot and whip for both companies and workers to work a lot on the issues. We didn't quite get there, but maybe it'll come in the future. It is very important that you get to grips with the distortions that exist in the insurance. That's why I've written this interpellation. It can be seen that the number of occupational injury reports and occupational injury trials is decreasing. There is far too much speculation about why. I will come back to the need for a comprehensive set of statistics. All different organisations and authorities have their own statistics.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-580	Mr President, I would like to I'm not a minister. I'm a member. But I have experience of this after being a trade unionist until 2006 when I entered the Riksdag. I have been a safety representative and also worked a lot with the occupational injury insurance. The change and deterioration of health insurance was a contributing factor, as the Minister says in his reply. But people's confidence in insurance also contributes. If you do not get your occupational injury approved, it is in the nature of the matter that you do not want to report it. If you constantly feel that you are being violated by a system where work injury insurance does not deliver in the event of an occupational injury and if you, as a woman, constantly find that the damage you have is due to the fact that you have become old and worn out in the back and not at work, there is a tendency not to report it. To Lotta Finstorp I would like to say that it is important to point out that Försäkringskassan has conducted its own investigation and found that refusals tend to be less investigated when dealing with the insurance. It also writes the Social Security Inspection. You do not really look at it but do an exposure investigation, which means that you call the injured person and ask questions about the person in question and not about the working life. There are fairly clear investigations from the Inspection for Social Security, Försäkringskassan and Riksrevisionen. It is strange that Lotta Finstorp has not taken part of them. I had a discussion and debate about this with the former Minister for Social Security in the bourgeois government, Ulf Kristersson, but also with the Minister for Labour because the issue of social work environment but also working environment in general affects the situation, especially health insurance. My tip to Lotta Finstorp is: Read what Försäkringskassan has written about occupational injury insurance and why people tend not to report. This is also linked to the current working life. Insecure employment leads to a tendency to refrain from reporting because the risk of not being allowed to continue at work is associated with reporting an occupational injury due to a poor working environment at work. It's a little more complicated. But there are also clear facts on the issues. I would like to inform you that I am abstaining from my second speech.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-588	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by thanking Lotta Finstorp for helping to highlight and keep the focus on an important issue. At the moment, in August, we have received referrals to the parliamentary Social Security inquiry. Without in any way announcing further investigations or similar during an interpellation debate, I can be clear that we will come back on precisely the issues of occupational injury. They're very anxious. The two previous speakers have raised a few things that are really fundamental problems. We see that notifications are made less often since the change in health insurance and that the number has fallen quite radically. However, we must be clear, as has also been mentioned here, that the insurance against accidents at work is designed for another time and is managed on that basis. It is handled from the point of view of an industrial society. Today we know that what makes people sick at work often has psychosocial causes. Women in contact professions are highly overrepresented. With my background as Federal Chairman of a trade union organising women in the public sector, I also know how to discuss occupational injury insurance, and can confirm the image that Eva-Lena Jansson gives. It is basically impossible for women who have any of these diagnoses to get an occupational injury approved. That's why you don't think it's a good idea to report it. I saw some number about this quite recently. I believe that the level of recognition for those working in health care was somewhere around 1%. A very clear gender aspect is thus accepted in our occupational injury insurance. This is, of course, both serious and unacceptable. At a time when not least more and more women are getting sick from their jobs, sometimes also a combination of not getting their job together with their private lives, we need to have an occupational injury insurance that can partly respond to a modern and changing labour market, and can develop as the labour market changes. Because it's happening very fast.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-594	Mr President, I would like to There are a lot of things that Annika Strandhäll and I have a common view about when it comes to insurance. It must become more modern, and it must follow in time. I think it would be good if you could turn it on so that it simply follows how the labour market changes, so that you don't have to do it again every time. In that case, it is easy that there are too many years before you rescrew it. Let me return to the problem of knowledge and statistics. In the debate it becomes rather loud because there are no combined statistics. It tends to focus on what suits you in the debate. There's one thing the Social Security investigation saw. It will be difficult for us legislators in this House to know what is what. We must have objective tools as a basis for making decisions. Coherent statistics are one of the proposals in the investigation. That would be very good, I think. Another issue I would like to highlight is that it looks very different for men and women. Approximately 30 000 accidents at work were reported in 2013. The difference between why an accident occurs at work was marked. Young men had the highest accident rate in 2012. You squeeze and hurt in some way primarily hands and fingers. For women, the situation is different. It is also because we generally work in other professions, and that is perhaps not surprising. But it is interesting that the incidence rate for women is highest in the 55 - 59 age group. Accidents apply to hips, legs and feet. It is often in healthcare that you hurt yourself when lifting and so on. We should also remember that the number of occupational injuries, the number of occupational accidents with sick leave and the number of occupational diseases is reduced by the number of hours worked. We're working more hours today. It is important to look at this when discussing this issue. Okay, we work more hours, and then the statistics look like that. There needs to be a deepening of this issue. In the report of the inquiry, there is much that can be analysed. I'm sure we could have gone even further with the occupational injury insurance. I do not see that it would be problematic to commission the Swedish Social Insurance Agency to be the one who is doing the in-depth dive into and analysis of the reason why the number of complaints and trials looks like they are now doing. Hopefully this is because there are fewer occupational injuries. That may be the case, but then you can end up in speculation that way. I want to see black and white on this issue. I think it is still a task that the Minister could be given by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency, because it is disconnected from the Social Insurance Committee's proposal. I would like the Minister to further develop the possibility of doing so now.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-602	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for this illustrative post which also shows how the differences can look like and what it actually is that affects women res pective men in different age ranges! I share Lotta Finstorp's entrance, that we need a better knowledge position. With regard to the durability requirement and why job injury reports have declined so much, the ISF is currently carrying out its own-initiated review. It is about the consequences for occupational injury insurance of the abolition of the fixed-term sickness benefit without an impact assessment and whether this can be linked together. Very much of the problem is probably there. On the basis of the health insurance framework that we have today, this would not be difficult to remedy, for example by introducing a review at the 90- or 180-day limit instead. But let's move on with this. I am quite sure that the Social Security Inspection will be completed in 2015, so the result should come relatively soon. I also share what is being put forward here about the proposals that come from the parliamentary social security inquiry on occupational injury insurance. Some of these proposals require further analysis and deepening. That is why we intend to come back to these issues. On the basis of my role as Minister for Social Security, I can say that I sometimes find it striking how little knowledge we actually have about women's work environment and how it affects women's health. The government provided some resources during the spring for further research into women's work environment. I think it is very important that we get a better picture and a better knowledge base based on the link to occupational injury insurance in general. It is about what measures we need to take to create a better position to deal with ill health among women in Sweden.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-607	Mr President, I would like to I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Minister for a good debate on a very important issue. Since we are going to have an additional interpellation debate that relates to the same problem, we may be able to further develop it then. I'm looking forward to the ISF investigation. As I see it, the problem with occupational injury insurance – when I have tried to get into it and when I was in the investigation – is that there are many authorities and bodies that do good things, as it were, on their chambers, but we have to put it together as a whole. I hope that the ISF study shows that these elements have been brought together to form a whole. In terms of women's work environment and health, it is appalling that this research is much less extensive than research into men, men's workplaces, men's health and so on. So of course it can only get better, absolutely. Thank you for a good debate so far!
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-611	Mr President, I would like to I have had to say what I can say at this moment in time in this debate. That is an urgent matter. I thank you for a good debate and look forward to returning to it.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-613	Mr President, I would like to Lotta Finstorp has asked me what I intend to do to deal with the worrying increase in mental work-related ill-health in the contact professions, where the public sector is over-represented. The rise in sick leave began in 2010. Since then, sick leave has increased annually throughout the last term of the alliance government. In December 2010, the sickness benefit rate was 6.0. Four years later in September 2014 when the Alliance left government power, the sickness rate was 9. 1. This is an increase of 51 percent. During this period, the cost of sickness benefit has increased by SEK 12 billion. Breaking this development is one of the government's most important issues. There is a need for a broad mobilisation on the issue of sick leave. It is essential that all stakeholders contribute to breaking the negative trend. Especially important are Försäkringskassan, employer and health care. The government intends to return shortly with a broad package of measures in all these areas. As Lotta Finstorp points out, sick leave is increasing especially among women who are often employed in the so-called contact professions in the public sector. It is above all the psychiatric diagnoses that are increasing. The overview of mental illness at work that Forte has produced clearly shows that the workplace must be involved in order for the employee to get back to work in a good way. That is why the talks I have started with the social partners are particularly important. The aim is to create better conditions for rehabilitation and conversion.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-616	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. In his reply, the Minister for Social Security notes that one of the government's most important questions is to break the sharp increase in sick leave. That is a necessary and very good ambition. But does the government have proposals that can be assumed to halt this negative development? I don't know. Now the red-green government has been responsible in Sweden for a year, and the concrete proposals are few. It is therefore remarkable that, for example, the removal of the time limit will be implemented despite a large number of referrals showing negative effects. My question to the Minister is what measures the Minister intends to take to address the worrying increase in mental illness in the contact professions. I fully agree with the Minister that all the parties involved must work together to get those who have suffered burnout back to work. However, I do not have any proposals on how preventive work should be carried out in order to prevent people from being burned out at all. A famous psychiatrist has said: Why do we feel so bad when we are so well? Finding the answer to that question may be the key. Early measures for sick leave are important, but this requires a number of factors. For example, medical certificates must be so thorough that the patient, employer and Försäkringskassan can work actively together for a return to work. I heard today that in some places in Sweden, but not everywhere, they call the medical certificates that are now anorexic, because there is almost nothing in them. This makes it much more difficult for the partners to help so that the sufferer can return as soon as possible. In addition, many employers today lack a contact person at Försäkringskassan. I believe that it is necessary to reintroduce this so that you have a face and a name for the person to whom you, as an employer together with the worker, can turn. What proposals does the government have for this? How does the minister view it? The Swedish Work Environment Agency recently produced a report that the Academic Association has highlighted in its journal Akademikern. It notes that women in the public sector are most affected by psychosomatic problems with high workloads. You just looked at women. Then we see that organisational or social causes of reported occupational diseases have increased significantly, especially in the public sector, as was mentioned in the previous interpellation debate. But also in defence there are a high number of reports of occupational diseases related to mental illness. High demands, to experience that you do not have control over your work situation and lack of support are risk factors, is stated in the report from the Swedish Work Environment Authority. It would be desirable for employers, especially in the public sector – that is where we see it going, that is where the numerary is – to look at this. I have signed a report on mental illness among women and conducted in-depth interviews with a number of women who have been burned out, including middle managers in municipalities and county councils. It's a scary picture that's been painted. It simply does not provide good conditions for doing good work. Many ambitious women want to be managers, and they should be, but then they must be given the opportunity, above all, from politicians at local and regional level.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-625	Mr President, I would like to Lotta Finstorp raises a very important issue. The reason why I am going up in the debate is above all that we use the concept of mental illness and so we hide the whole problem under a very broad explanatory model. If you look at it more closely, it is about stress-related diseases in health and care professions. It's about our kindergarten staff. It's about those who take care of our elders. It's about people in health care. It's about our principals and teachers and so on. What they have in common is that they have politicians who are ultimately responsible for their activities. If it is ever important not to get stuck in different systems and use bats against each other, it is now. It is a matter of really helping each other to deal with a very difficult situation that has an extremely dramatic development if we do nothing together. To then polemize against one another that one or the other does nothing does does not lead forward. Nor does it lead the people who are now in these systems forward. If we know it is a matter of stress - related diseases, we must reasonably find out why these people are rushing. What conditions do they have in their working environment to do a good job? What are the conditions in the municipalities, purely financially, to ensure that the workplaces in the public sector will be good? These are activities on which we are all dependent in order for all of us to be able to go to our jobs at all. This is an important issue and it certainly deserves to be debated. But it also deserves us to look together at what we can do to deal with a very dramatic development. These developments are responses to something – answers to slim organisations, answers to fewer staff on the floor, answers to a lot of documentation. The documentation is something that is often mentioned when you are out on a workplace visit and you are asked: Why are you rushing? Well, we've got so much documentation. Why have they received documentation? Because they're going to prove that they've done what they're going to do. I believe, in the name of honesty, that we should have a debate where we look at these issues together. It is about political-led activities, and we need to take this very seriously.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-630	Mr President, I would like to Thanks for two very good posts! The development that we have seen over time and that we see is very worrying. I usually say that when we look at how sick absence has been fluctuating for a long time in Sweden we get a huge complex picture of what it is due to. But what is significant in Sweden for more than two decades is that women are over-represented in sick leave statistics, and they continue to be. It is, to a large extent, a question of psychiatric diagnosis. Since 2006, psychiatric diagnosis in Sweden dominates sick leave for both women and men, which is very interesting when considering how we allocate resources and how we support people, not least in healthcare. There's really something to put on here. As has been said in the debate, the contact professions are highly over-represented, and they are mainly in the public sector. What Lotta Finstorp talks about the defence is also very interesting. Again to this with requirements and control. What we clearly see, and which is very significant for the teachers, social secretaries, middle managers and nurses in the care of the elderly who are now in our health insurance instead of the labour market, is that there are concerns when it comes to the demands of the job. These are demands in terms of workloads and demands in terms of emotional stress because you work with people who for one reason or another have difficulties, or work with children where you have a great responsibility on your shoulders, while at the same time you do not get access to the support or perhaps the appreciation you need to cope with that burden. It's very significant. It was interesting to hear about the conversations you, Lotta, had had with middle managers. It is a clear group of these. During the inspections that the Swedish Work Environment Authority recently carried out in 52 municipalities – there is also a report – they looked at women's and men's dominated parts of the municipalities. You can cut sick leave statistics there. Then you see what it looks like about sick leave in the care of the elderly and what it looks like in the technical administration. It's perfect. But you also have to go inside and look deeper at it. How many subordinates do the middle chief have to be responsible for? How much administrative burden is placed on the middle manager, so that the middle manager, whom Phia Andersson mentioned, will prove what she or he is doing? What's the middle manager's responsibility? The Swedish Work Environment Authority also mentioned that those who work in the women's dominated part feel, right or not, that they have longer to the decision-makers, that is to say to the politicians. You're more alone in your mission. You are squeezed from the top but also from the bottom by the demands of the employees, who are also not well. I agree with what Phia said, that this is incredibly important to us. If we want a low and stable sick absence in Sweden, we must dare to tackle the problem and look it in the face.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-638	Mr President, I would like to We have a coherent picture of what it looks like. However, it is complex to get to grips with this, because I think you have to screw some parts. Many of the women I have interviewed have said: I would have wanted to change jobs. I should have done it so as not to end up in this burnout, but I didn't dare take the step. It is a small appeal to the government: Let alternative and private carers remain, so that you don't just go from one municipality to another! There should be other options to choose from. What we see in the contact professions is exactly what it's about: you use yourself as a tool, and that's what makes you feel exhausted in the end. I agree with Mr Andersson in her speech on the politicians locally and regionally and the responsibilities they have in this. Resources and requirements must be consistent. You have the resources you have, but then you can also not put more demands on the business and on the manager. Then you can't. I also think that the cleavage of politicians – when you go down at a detailed level and start to control without providing resources in an equivalent amount – is a danger to the mental health of an organisation. I think Phia Andersson also mentioned this: What do we mean when we say fatigue syndrome and stress-related diseases? What the Swedish Work Environment Authority uses regarding unhealthy workloads I think is quite good. It is when the requirements of the work more than temporarily exceed the resources available and when the burden leads to ill health. I think that is a wise and healthy thing. When it comes to changing jobs, we Moderates have proposed a kind of conversion aid for this. Sometimes it is not possible to repair at the same workplace as the one where you entered the wall, if we are to be completely honest. Then you must dare to move on and move on to another employer. I sometimes think that we focus very much on unhealthy workplaces. But what is the criterion for a healthy workplace? What should we strive for so that no one has to burn out? Perhaps that is what we should have in that debate that we are considering! As I said, I have spoken to many women, and I would like to mention an example from the public sector. It is an intermediate manager with 70 employees below him, who must also be responsible for all day-to-day operations. She said to me: What has been removed in municipalities and county councils is the surrounding resources. As a manager, I need to fix when the IT system collapses, I'm gonna document, I'm gonna book appointments, and I'm gonna do all that, you know. But higher up in the hierarchy, if you are a senior manager, these resources often remain. I think it is important for us politicians who are also active locally and regionally to think about this. You shouldn't take this away as soon as it starts to run out of money and resources. It's so easy to cross a line over the assistant or co-worker to the middle manager. I think that's a warning signal. I read that the EU Agency for Safety and Health at Work has just recently produced a report on the psychosocial working environment. Sweden and Finland are at an unhealthy peak in mental illness, while other countries are lower. You can also think about that.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-647	Mr President, I would like to We certainly agree that we want to do something good and change the situation. I am absolutely convinced that we can do this together, because we have a lot of knowledge. I think Lotta Finstorp summarises all the workplace visits I have devoted myself to this summer. I've really tried to stay out as much as possible and talk to staff to find out what they're experiencing as stress. Your summary – high standards, lack of support and no influence – is exactly what it is all about. That's exactly where we need to go inside and fix. If we are looking for action, I think that, with the knowledge we have, we see it quite clearly. I see that the small units that we have built up to have small group homes in elderly care and so on do not create the conditions for a few people to put together a good schedule. Instead, you start to blur your work environment. You start with shared tours in the middle of the week to get a free weekend with the family because we have such small units. I think there are many different parts where we could increase the influence of staff. Then they would surely have greater well - being at their place of work.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-650	Mr President, I would like to Thank you so much for the wise input game! Now the four minutes that I have as speaking time feel very short. I will also try to address some of the questions that Lotta Finstorp asked in her first post: What can we do now? Let me also touch a little on what Phia Andersson was into here at the end. I am absolutely convinced that we have a great deal of knowledge about this problem. I know that Sweden's Municipalities and County Councils have a lot of knowledge about this problem and that it looks like it does. It is about making sure that this knowledge is translated into measures to create decent work environments even in the women-dominated parts of Sweden's municipalities and county councils. Then we need more research and more knowledge about, for example, what we are discussing here today – emotional strain. How much of this can you do in your job when you work 40 hours a week and should keep a whole working life and maybe work even longer? I realise that there are areas where we need more knowledge, but we know quite a lot when it comes to requirements and control. This is about the excellent example mentioned by Lotta Finstorp, which many women who work in this position describe: the lack of administrative support. It is not only that this woman has 70 employees that she should work daily. She will also hold development and salary talks with 70 employees and know what they perform in her work and what she needs to do as a supervisor to ensure that they develop, feel good at her workplace and can perform. I think we all realize that you would hardly even remember the names of everyone. I would like to address, among other things, what you are raising about the possibility of conversion when you are unable to return to your workplace again. This is one of the issues that I have specifically raised with the social partners in the discussions that I have had this spring. It is about what opportunities exist when, due to ill-health for one reason or another, you cannot remain at your workplace. I believe that today the social partners are extremely good at transitioning due to labour shortages. They're amazingly good! The Security Fund, which is one of the partner-owned funds, manages to convert 80% of those who claim their services due to job shortages into new jobs. I also know that in the dialogues that exist between some of the social partners there are ideas on how this could be developed in order to take account of and take advantage of this knowledge, skills and these networks even in the case of ill health. I agree that it is necessary; I really think so. TCO has also raised this, and I know that Sven kt Business has also been in favour of such a development. On the other hand, Sweden's Municipalities and County Councils are not as long away from this discussion, which we may be able to take with us politically in a slightly different way. A few years ago, as the last part of the labour market, they have signed a conversion agreement, but it only deals with labour shortages so far. I see that there are possibilities there. I would also like to come back to the doctor's certificate that Lotta Finstorp lifted up. Many employers' representatives also raise this with me and say: In order for us to be able to do good jobs as employers, medical certificates must provide a basis for us to be able to take the right measures. There are shortcomings there today. I agree with that, and we will move on with this.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-659	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for a very good debate on an extremely important subject! It is just as the Minister says: we see the shortcomings, but the solutions are at different levels. The major employers at local and regional level must get to the bottom of their part in it, and the government and we in this House must also see how we should work from our level. I was going to connect to where the minister finished. From a moderate point of view, we have highlighted that the requirement for share capital should be reduced, for example, so that women can start their own business more easily. Some people may feel that no, this is no longer possible and may want to become combinators who still have their jobs but are working with something else in their own company. We have also proposed extending leave from six months to at least one year in order to have the courage to try working elsewhere. I would also like to highlight one more aspect very quickly. It is a great thing that you can go down in working hours to 75 percent while the children are small. However, many women also testify that they are expected to do 100% work on their 75 percent working hours. Because no one is doing the job at the 25% that you are home with the children, and it is often women who are. This can also lead to internal stress that causes mental illness. This is also something for employers, perhaps especially in the public sector. The employer really has to make sure that the 25% is offloaded so that it is not a very heavy thing to deal with. I would like the Minister to say something about this.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-663	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for a good debate! These are exciting proposals, and I think that we are all very aware that the possibility of changing during working life is increasing as the labour market changes. Of course, we must also rig our systems, both politically and in other ways, in order to create opportunities for people to try other things safely and change during their working lives. I really believe that this will be one of the major issues ahead, and it will also be extremely important for you to have the energy to work a whole working life and also to have your health left. If you look at the work environment for women in the public sector, you can see that we have had quite few tools. I think there will be a regulation from the Swedish Work Environment Authority within a not too long time that will support a job in the public sector that is about working more systematically also with the mental or psychosocial work environment in the workplace. I think this is a good thing, and hopefully it can also enable the follow-up of the psychosocial work environment and emotional strain in women's dominated professions to be systematised. I initially announced in my reply today that we intend to come back with a broad package of measures. Nevertheless, I think it is nice that in this debate today there are many of us who say and understand that this is complex, that it is about resources and how health care works when it comes to mental illness. It is about the employer's ability to deal with ill health at an early stage, and it is about Försäkringskassan's ability to handle well and make the trials that you need to do and also the conditions to be able to make the contacts needed to support people back into the labour market again. So there are several different things that we need to do, and I look forward to coming back.
i-6d8b3a5f61a432e2-681	Hungary's action on the refugee issue
