i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-1	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating TU5 Approval and market surveillance of vehicles. Most of what the report says is a proposal and a framework regulation from the EU that Sweden must adapt to, and a large part of what the report says is very good. In the work of the committee, we in the Moderates and the Alliance expressed our doubts that the government and the left-wing parties, and also the Swedish Democrats, want to go further in the rules on tractors than the EU actually requires. They want to introduce special rules for the new type of tractor (b), the tractors that can go faster than 40 kilometres per hour. It has turned out that several countries in Europe will not introduce these rules, but it is Sweden that will introduce them as a separate rule. Sweden is therefore planning to go further than the EU requires. The aim is therefore to limit the use of tractors so that they cannot draw the heavy loads that other tractors in Europe are allowed to carry. Furthermore, these tractors risk being charged with an overloading charge if they carry heavier loads. These special rules obviously impair the competitiveness of Swedish farmers compared to their foreign colleagues. Mr President, I would like to If these rules go through, it means that when a farmer in Sweden is going to drive heavy transport from the field to his farm he may not use his new tractor b but must use a tractor of a. Otherwise, he risks both fines and overloading charges. If, on the other hand, the farmer takes his old tractor a and drives the same load, he can get away with these fines. A farmer in Sweden cannot use his tractors in the same way and as flexibly as his competing colleagues in Europe can. The Swedish farmer may have to have another tractor that can pull these extra heavy loads. Otherwise, he risks a fine and, at worst, a driver's license withdrawn. Sweden's farmers have an extremely tough economic situation because they pay Europe's highest diesel tax. In addition, the government plans to increase the diesel tax further. Mr President, I would like to The competitiveness study for Sweden's agriculture clearly pointed out that many of the special rules that apply to Sweden's agriculture are reducing competitiveness. Competition is fierce, and yet four parties, the Social Democrats, the Left, the Swedish Democrats and the Green Party, propose today that we introduce even more special rules and fees for Swedish agriculture. The LRF has clearly said no to the proposal in the consultation document, but it clearly weighs lightly for these parties, which are currently planning to introduce the special rules. The four parties believe that the rules will impair the competitiveness of Sweden's farmers, but they believe that the haulage industry benefits. The farmer will have to hire a haulage company to drive his road transport. P the species are aware that they are deteriorating for the country's farmers despite the fact that the EU does not require this. Mr President, I would like to If the farmer is not allowed to pull his load of tractor in Sweden, he may have to hire a haulage company or buy his own truck. This means that Swedish farmers will have to pay the higher diesel tax that the government proposes for their transport, since the hauliers have no reduction for diesel at all. If you want to strengthen haulage industry in Sweden, it must not be at the expense of Swedish agriculture. Mr President, I would like to The industry can be strengthened, but then it is about lower taxes, better controls on our roads, introducing customer responsibility according to Parliament's decision, reviewing company fees and setting up alco-boms in ports and border stations according to Parliament's decision. But this is not being done, but instead it is hitting the country's farmers. Sweden's farmers must have the same conditions of competition as their colleagues in Europe. Therefore, we Moderates and the Alliance reject the introduction of these new special rules for tractors in Sweden. Of course, we should have such regulations as the rest of Europe, but preferably even better rules than the rest of Europe. I therefore support this reservation.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-11	Mr President, I would like to The government proposal that we are debating today is about some changes that are, in principle, adaptations to new EU regulations, with some important additions that are, as it were, home-made. I will come back to these. First of all, I would like to emphasise a principled starting point. The Centre Party basically feels that it is good that Europe should adapt its legislation in the field of traffic so that it becomes as common as it is practically reasonable. There are differences in infrastructure, climate and so on that we may need national special rules, but the starting point should be common rules. Let me first address the part of the proposal relating to tractors and transport. A new EU regulation requires new legislation for t radicals. They are divided into tractor (a) and tractor (b). Tractor b has to go a little faster than today's maximum 40 kilometers an hour. In order to highlight the importance of driving a faster vehicle requiring increased judgment and competence, the proposal introduces B card requirements. That could be reasonable. On the other hand, for several reasons we are opposed to the proposal to introduce an excess load charge for these combinations. There has long been an established market for agriculture and forestry in particular, where tractors are used as tractors for road transport. They are usually linked to the farm's operation, and the transport starts or ends in fields or in forest land. These are often relatively short journeys. These transports are, of course, subject to public traffic regulations of various kinds including maximum load and weight limits on bridges etc. Transport vehicles are often equipped with heavy tyres to cope with different ground conditions, which gives relatively low ground pressure on the roads. It is now proposed that the new tractors, which go a few kilometres faster, should be burdened with legislation with excess loads that have not existed before. The load weights will now be examined, and the police will be given new tasks. In these times one might wonder if the timing is not bad. If the police have time to be out in the countryside, I can tell you that the problems of diesel theft and theft of tractors and loaders are probably so great. There's a lot of work going on there. Mr President, I would like to The Center Party is pleased that we have finally had a debate on the crowded economy of agriculture and the importance of adapting the regulations in Sweden so that farmers can compete on equal terms with the rest of Europe. Now, however, practical implementation is required. It is not good enough, then, to press new conditions for agricultural transport in a bureaucratic manner just because the tractor runs a few kilometres faster! Mr President, I would like to This type of legislation can be seen as a good example of infinity and how we deal with our tools in this House in the worst way. Now it's up to you to prove it. Do other parties want to promote equal conditions of competition with the rest of the EU, or should Danish agriculture, for example, be allowed to go sour cream by introducing more restrictions than the EU requires? I would like to conclude with a few words on another part of the proposal we are discussing today, namely the one on new electric bicycles. The development of bicycles with electric auxiliary motor is strong. The new vehicle with a stronger engine, which is categorized as moped II with requirements for helmets etc., will be an interesting innovation on the market. The new vehicles mean that more people can travel both further and faster than before by bicycle. From the Center Party we believe that these new products offer many opportunities for improved health and the environment in society. But we also agree that there is reason to follow developments with some extra sharp safety goggles. It is important that the positive trend for increased cycling that we are in can be combined with a continued improvement in safety. Mr President, I would like to The Center Party is behind putting the new stronger electric bicycles with moped class II on an equal footing with helmet requirements and driver's certification requirements. Developments may show how rules may otherwise need to be adapted in the event of deterioration of the development of injury. The Center Party is therefore in favour of the proposal in report TU5 except for the proposal to amend the Act on Overload Charges, which we are calling for to be rejected.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-23	Mr President, I would like to Today we are going to decide on the government proposal for vehicle approval and market surveillance. The proposal is designed to adapt provisions in accordance with the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the European Council on the approval and market surveillance of agricultural and forestry vehicles and the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the European Council on the approval and market surveillance of two- or three-wheel vehicles and quadricycles. Mr President, I would like to The Government's proposal has been made that a legislative amendment is required in order to bring the national regulatory framework into line with the provisions resulting from the two new EU regulations. However, the government does not stop there and proposes its own additions and wants to introduce an excess load charge for the new tractor that runs over 40 kilometres per hour. This proposal is not called for by the new EU framework regulations. In substance, the Government's proposal means that we in Sweden will not be able to benefit as much from the new fast-moving tractor type as we can in the other EU countries. This removes a large part of the benefits of a vehicle that could contribute to a more efficient and profitable business for the agricultural and forestry industry in the country. This new fast-moving tractor is something that the industry is asking for, but which the government therefore does not want to be able to use in the same way as farmers and foresters in the rest of Europe can do. These industries cannot then be credited with the equivalent efficiency gains that their European competitors can make. This is the wrong way to go. The Christian Democrats do not believe that we should burden our farmers and our forestry industry, which is in need of the new tractors, with additional costs for transporting cargo. An overload charge limits the utility of the vehicle. The majority report reads that the proposed changes are being made with a view to adapting parts of the national regulatory framework in the field of vehicles to the new framework regulations of the European Union. Unfortunately, this is not in line with the supplementary proposals proposed by the government. Mr President, I would like to The red-green parties with the support of the Swedish Democrats propose Swedish special rules that do not imply an adaptation to the rest of the EU. Instead, the Swedish farmers have disadvantages in relation to their European colleagues. This will also make them less profitable than other European countries. Swedish farmers and hauliers already have enough disadvantages in competition with other EU countries. I am thinking here of, among other things, higher environmental standards, diesel taxes, road user charges and other charges of various kinds. Mr President, I would like to The Alliance's joint reservation means that we say yes to the Government's proposal for amendments to the Driving Licences Act and the Road Traffic Register Act. We are also in favour of the Government's proposal to amend the Road Traffic Definitions Act with the Committee's legislative adjustments. On the other hand, we are calling for the government's proposal to amend the Act on Overload Charges to be rejected. The Government proposes here that the new high speed tractor be subject to the Act on Overload Charges, which will in practice limit the usefulness of the vehicle. I would like to remind you that the National Federation of Farmers, the LRF, has rejected the proposal for an excess load charge. Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats are in favour of harmonising the rules according to the European Parliament and the European Council's regulation and so on. We have reservations about the government wanting to introduce overload charges as the only country in the European Union. Equivalent rules between countries are important for us to have an equal and fairer competitive position within the EU. Let us not burden the Swedish farmers with even more negative discrimination! I commend the Alliance's reservation.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-35	Mr President, I would like to This is a report on which we broadly agree, but I think a few comments on the previous speeches deserve to be made. First of all, it is not in agriculture the large number of tractors in Sweden. In fact, it is among hauliers, construction companies and other machine drivers. That's where the large amount of tractors are. They are the ones who will benefit most from getting more fast-moving tractors. It's not agriculture. It's important to remember. Sten Bergheden will probably read a little more in the government's draft budget before he so categorically condemns the proposal to give farmers overcompensation for the diesel tax. In fact, that is what is being done – overcompensation for the increased tax on diesel precisely for agriculture. It is an exception to tax legislation. This isn't a law that should only apply right now. Right now we have a difficult situation for the police, Göran Lindell. But this law is supposed to last a long time. Then you cannot make arguments such as the fact that the police are in such a difficult situation right now that you cannot introduce anything. We in this Parliament would be tied up if we were only to reflect on today's situation, always and in all contexts. I think we'd end up in something very strange then. But like I said, we're basically in agreement on this. It is on one point that we differ. It is a detail, but it is important in this context. If you don't drive with overload, you don't get an overload charge. Is it given by Gud to drive with overload because you happen to be a farmer? I don't think so. I do not think farmers have to drive tractors with overload, and above all not fast tractors. Here you try to make a chicken out of a feather. That's about what you're making up from the Alliance, because you can't agree on everything. Let's look at overloads. How to assess overloads? First of all, I would like to make it clear that I believe that there should be no excess loads either on tractors or on lorries. I think that is an important starting point. Too heavy vehicles work much more on the roads, and then they get to have as wide a deck as they want. We do not get away from heavier vehicles tearing more on the roads. In times when a lot of resources have to be spent on maintaining our road system, it is therefore not justifiable to drive with overload, whether it be old tractors or new tractors that go faster. We should remember that there is a limit to how slowly the new tractors can go, namely 40 kilometres per hour, but there is nothing to say how fast they can go. There are no such provisions. That it would be just a mile or so here or there, I don't buy. These tractors can probably go quite fast because they will be used in completely different contexts from the current tractors. That's why a new vehicle type comes into being. It is about wear and tear on our roads and therefore also about road safety. With fewer overloaded vehicles, road safety increases. We're not getting away from that. That's it. The vocational traffic investigation, which worked a few years ago, points to three factors that increase safety risks with overload: abnormal stress on vehicle load bearings and trailer couplings, deterioration of dynamic stability and deterioration of braking performance. That is the very point of departure for the whole issue of overload, but the alliance politicians do not seem to have grasped that there may be any problem with it at all. If one is to interpret some of the posts that have been made, one gets the impression that any vehicle should be able to drive with overload and as fast as possible, that it does not matter that a truck has a few tons overload. Yes, it does. It's a big deal. We can't have that order. Whether it be tractors running in 70 - 80 or a truck running in 70 - 80, we must fight the excess loads overall. Short-term, populist positions are what the alliance politicians are doing on this issue. Let me turn to the fee itself. The proposal before us does not mean that there should be a direct introduction of overload charges. They are intended for the new vehicles that are not yet in our country. Tractors (a) are not covered. There won't be any changes. Today, if we go to agriculture, there is a tractor a. You use tractor a except, I understand, when it comes to some transport of beets in Skåne, for example, when you hire haulage companies and in this way get the tusks to factory. I think this also applies to other transports where a lot of goods will be moved for a short time. Then it is not functional to use tractor trailers, but other vehicles must be used. That's where the new tractor comes in. But there is, again, nothing to say that you need to overload the trailer, but you can drive with exactly the load that is allowed. A truck with overload that passes a wave has to pay, but you shouldn't have to do that if you have a tractor. I understand that the haulage industry does not think it is a particularly good proposal. The agricultural industry does not benefit from the special treatment of a new type of vehicle in the country. I do not understand how the bourgeois can disagree. In other contexts, the drum for competition is being put on a level playing field and talks widely about the conditions of the haulage industry. Yeah, we're trying to do that, too. We think it is important for the haulage industry to be given the same conditions as those with which they should compete, in this case new, fast-moving tractors. The haulage companies may even, as part of the haulage industry, buy such tractors. That about equal competition and all that was perhaps just the lip service when it was discovered that there were other short-term, populist things to win. I support the committee's proposal for a decision and reject the reservation.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-49	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to make a statement, as Mr Leif said, that other contractors can use the tractors and that we must therefore squeeze into the business. The victim becomes Swedish agriculture, and that is exactly what we have highlighted. We do not believe that Swedish agriculture should be affected by these rules. We think that we should follow the rules that the rest of the EU has. The second point that Mr Leif mentioned was that we should be careful of the roads. Of course it is. We are not going around with overloads, but the problem is that now the farmer can instead take the other tractor and drive his heavy load with it. He cannot take the new tractor with better suspension, better road conditions and all, but he must take the older tractor, because then he will not go there for overload. But he's working on the road just as hard, so that argumentation doesn't hold up at all. We want it to be obvious that Swedish farmers can use the technology and opportunities available, in the same way as other farmers in Europe. The two arguments are therefore quite flat. That was also the reason we wrote the reservation. The farmers are not fully compensated. In Sweden we still pay 2 – 3 SEK more for diesel than in Germany and Denmark. I would like to ask Leif: how will the new rules strengthen the competitiveness of Swedish farmers? How will they improve the possibility for Swedish farmers to compete with their colleagues in Europe?
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-54	Mr President, I would like to First of all, Swedish farmers will not drive on foreign roads to any great extent, but it is in Sweden that they will use the rules that exist. Secondly, I am opposed to the view that when we introduce an overload charge, we should squeeze someone. Instead of squeezing at anyone, we will make sure that we do not overload. The purpose of the charge is precisely to remove the excess loads, but Sten Bergheden succeeds in completely ignoring that. Overloads are and remain a nuisance. Whether overloaded tractors run faster than 40 kilometres per hour or overloaded trucks, it is a nuisance. It wears more on our ways; we do not get away from that. In times when we need to look at how we use our maintenance money, it cannot be justifiable to break the roads with overloads. So must Sten Bergheden. It is also important to recognise that speed is important in this context. There are physical rules that show how the road is done. Then speed is of great importance. It is not for nothing that you lower the speed over bridges and in other vulnerable places where the bearing capacity is not large enough. This is, of course, because weight along with speed matters. I think that is something that needs to be considered in this case as well.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-58	Mr President, I would like to I'll take it one more time. You have not forbidden to run over cargo with older tractors or a tractors, and you claim that they do not work on the road, while the new tractors would work much more on the road if they drive with overload. That argument does not hold. It only shows that Sweden wants special rules in relation to Denmark, Germany and other countries that do not introduce this rule. We already have tough taxes. We have the diesel tax. You are proposing new road taxes for the haulage industry, and they will also affect agriculture and its transport. On roads, bridges and the like, it is often stated how much they can withstand. Everyone has to deal with that. These laws and rules apply anyway. What we are opposed to is that Sweden uses such tractors in terms of the new tractors, which actually have better road characteristics than the old tractors and better conditions to transport loads safely – the whole of Europe uses such tractors to drive heavy loads, which is actually what tractors are normally used for – to introduce an overload charge, to reduce or remove the possibility for Swedish farmers to drive heavier loads with new and safer tractors. How does it strengthen the competitiveness of Swedish farmers that we introduce additional special rules? Together with the Green Party, the Left and the Swedish Democrats, you want to introduce these rules, contrary to what the LRF wants and contrary to what was said in the report on competitiveness in agriculture. There it was said that we already have too much special rules in Sweden today.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-62	Mr President, I would like to Of course, a balance must be struck between what is reasonable and what is not. Then it has been considered that it is not reasonable to impose overload charges on the old tractors, because they do not work on the roads in the same way, because they have lower speeds, quite simply. It's the speed along with the weight that matters. We're not getting away from that. Sten Bergheden says that Swedish farmers have a higher tax burden than others. Yes, we have a higher tax position in Sweden than in other countries, but we also have another welfare system to pay. I thought we agreed that this was a good thing. At least you fought while you were in government to keep some of those things. You and others suggest that new taxes are coming. Well, let's see what it's gonna be. So far, only one study has been set up to look at how road wear taxes can be introduced in Sweden. That is the path that the whole of Europe is taking and which the Commission says it should go. Here, too, we may see some form of harmonisation with the rest of Europe – not that we should have the same tax system, but it is indeed this way that most of Europe is going. It remains to be seen.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-65	Mr President, I would like to I have a statement to make, and so I would like to ask two questions to Leif Pettersson. I have tried to say that it was very bad timing when it comes to the police's mission, given the current state of affairs, but I do not think that the police need further information. What results from this legislation does not seem to be a reasonable priority. Therefore, I note that the consequence of what Leif says is that it should be a normal task for the police to weigh tractor trailers on the roads. Leif Pettersson speaks of the heavy loads and describes that in principle roads are being destroyed by tractor transport. The consequence of your reasoning, Leif Pettersson, is reasonable that you also want to introduce the corresponding charge on tractors that go slower than 40, i.e. the current tractor a. I can't see any other consequence of your way of describing the problem of overload. I would like your comment on this. Finally, you describe that regardless of the tires, heavy loads are a nuisance in this country. Then comes the unsearched idea of the work I thought we were doing together to allow heavier vehicles. It would allow heavier loads on trucks, which with the right equipment provide both better environment and better economy. Does this mean that you are also opposed to such suggestions? If the Green Party has infected itself so far in the deep ranks of the Social Democratic Party, I regret that.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-69	Mr President, I would like to I don't think you have to worry about that last one, Göran Lindell! This is a completely different configuration of the vehicles, with more axles and so on. Then you get down the road. Then it's just the total weight that's interesting. This is what the Finnish Transport Administration is now looking at when it comes to bridges, road drums and other things. It is not about overloads either. It will allow 74 tons but not 75. Remember that! It's not about overloads. It's about having legal loads. In this context, too, we must agree that overloads are an obstacle, whether you drive on tractor a, tractor b, truck or whatever it is for vehicles. It cannot be a reasonable order that those who have some spans over can pay a fee and then get to have business as usual. We cannot have such a system! This with the police is a comparison that I would not like to make in the situation we have today. I hope Göran Lindell feels the same way. But then, of course, it is up to the police to check compliance with the laws we decide on in the Riksdag. This applies to everything, including road traffic in all areas. Then it is a question of what resources the police have at their disposal. Perhaps the police need more resources at their disposal for road traffic surveillance in the future. It is very possible that this is the case, but we are not there today. This is not what we are discussing today; we will see what it looks like in the future. As I said, it is a balance that means that the tractor a does not receive a fee.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-73	Mr President, I would like to In the name of truth: If we introduce a number of new laws and regulations, they are reasonably intended to be followed, and that is probably also new assignments for the police. Of course, with the pace of reform and the ambitions to regulate one and the other that exist here, better resources are also needed for the police. However, the question is whether this is what the police should be doing. That's my question. Leif Pettersson talks about legal vices. Of course they will become illegal if we make a law against them, but so far they are legal. It will be very messy to compare the traffic that we already have today with the 40-kilometre tractors, which will continue to be legal, with the overload of completely different types. We in the Center Party believe that the system we have today with regard to agricultural transport is working well. That is why we see no reason to have greater ambitions in some kind of fictitiousness just because tractors run a few kilometres faster. That's the part we stick to. We cannot mix up the whole argument about cargo and overload in the overall vehicle fleet. Then we've mixed the cards a little too much, I think.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-76	Mr President, I would like to Yes, this is exactly what we have to do. When we introduce vehicles that will be able to compete with other vehicles that go faster than 40 kilometres per hour, it must be the same rules that apply to all vehicles. Overloads are illegal even on tractor a, although there is no charge on it. It is not an overload charge, but it is still not legal to drive around with overloads. I can't have any other vision than that we have to get rid of overloads at all in traffic. They pose major road safety risks. This also applies to tractors that run faster than 40 kilometres per hour. There is no upper limit, Göran. They can walk as fast as they can – almost. They can go a lot faster than 40 kilometers an hour anyway. Then it's about a mission to the police. Well, then we'll have to stop legislating in the Swedish Parliament. Then the police get new tasks all the time. Do we want something to happen? Do we want a change of laws? Do we want to add something? Yes, it is sometimes the task of the police to actually enforce those laws, and this is the case here. Yes, it will be the task of the police to ensure that tractors that go faster than 40 kilometres per hour do not overload.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-80	Mr President, I would like to We will try to simplify the procedure around the various tractors. Today we have tractors that travel a maximum of 40 kilometres per hour. There will be new tractors in the industry that will travel over 50 kilometres an hour. It is a very sought-after vehicle for farmers and others who need it in their everyday lives. The new tractors will go faster. Of course they will also take a higher load. In the EU, these tractors will not be taxed with an excess charge, but in Sweden we will have special rules. We will have an overload charge for farmers to be able to carry cargo. This, Mr President, reduces profitability. Competition will not be on equal terms. The question to Leif Pettersson is: Why should we in Sweden make it more expensive and more difficult for our farmers when other EU countries do not have an excess load charge for this particular vehicle?
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-83	Mr President, I would like to If for a second Robert Halef manages to lift himself over agriculture and look at how these tractors will be used in our country, I think he sees that there will be considerably more companies than agriculture that will use them. Should we not then have an excess load charge for those who carry crushed mountains, for example, with a tractor of this kind from a construction site or something else? Shouldn't we have overload charges for those who drive other heavy loads with this type of vehicle? This is a completely unreasonable position. These tractors will also be used in agriculture – yes. Then don't overload them! Then you won't get any fees. I guess there's no big problem with that. It is just like making sure that you do not overload trucks and just as you should make sure that you do not overload a tractor. For overloads tear more on our roads. It is a road safety issue and a road safety problem. In fact, I do not think it will lead anywhere to have a discussion where they say: yes, but this is not so bad. Let them drive! No, we can't do that. We cannot allow tractors of this type to have excess loads, whether they are used in agriculture or in other activities.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-87	Mr President, I would like to Swedish special rules that make operations more difficult and expensive, whether it is agriculture or other industries, do not contribute to development and better profitability for the industry. European farmers and other industries will benefit greatly from this new tractor, the new vehicle model that will be allowed to travel at a speed of over 50 kilometres per hour N. Our industry will not benefit from this new vehicle under the same conditions. I think that Leif Pettersson goes ahead. Let's try this! Let us have these tractors for a while and then come back, analyze and see if there is a need for an overload charge! I think we should be more careful about additional taxation on the business sector, which makes it more difficult and expensive to operate in our country. When other European countries do not do this, I think we should be very careful about it. I think we should wait, analyze and evaluate. I do not think that, until we have even got the tractor in place, we should impose new taxes and new charges which make it less effective for those who would have to use this new tractor. An anti-business policy should be left to one side. Let's try it! Give them a chance! Should it turn out that these tractors are working on our roads, as you say, we will have to take a stand on it then. Why separate rules beyond what the European Union is proposing?
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-91	Mr President, I would like to Then one might ask: Why special rules that disadvantage Swedish haulage industry? That is what we are introducing if we allow this type of overburden without penalties, which the haulage industry actually has. Swedish haulage industry is very careful when it comes to overloads. If you bring an overladen timber trailer to a factory today, you will not be paid for your excess load. If you have 68 tons on your car and it can only take 64, you will not be paid for the four extra tons. You should be able to compete on equal terms. Swedish haulage industry is very careful to say: Overloads work more on our roads. Overloading is a road safety issue and a road safety problem. The same must then apply to vehicles which will compete with road haulage companies. It is not an anti-nutritive policy – quite the contrary. It is a policy that ensures competition on equal terms. But the Alliance finds it hard to see that the same rules sometimes need to be introduced across the field. Then there are the a-trailers. Yes, it might be justified to look at overload charges there too, but it is not included in this proposal. It is not included in the proposal for the simple reason that a balance has been made and looked at: what is reasonable to introduce? Yes, it is not reasonable to introduce this into what we have had in the past. But overloads are still illegal. Overloads are still not allowed. I recommend Swedish agriculture to ensure that you do not overload your vehicles.
i-Wet5d3Uj2thfF6V7MV53dY	Mr President, I would like to We are debating today the approval and market surveillance of vehicles, proposal 2015/ 16:31. The proposed amendments concern, inter alia, a new fast-moving tractor, tractor b, at a speed of not more than 50 kilometres per hour and a new smaller electric vehicle with a larger engine power that can be type-approved and allowed in traffic, as well as certain weight restrictions imposed on certain mopeds and motorcycles. The proposals for t straights b seem reasonable. Tractor b will be subject to the same regulatory framework as regards overload, driving and rest times and taxation as trucks when used for commercial goods transport. However, the proposal does not concern existing tractors, which in some cases compete with lorries, which can reassure Sweden's farmers. Overall, the bill is good. It is of great benefit to Sweden's farmers, who can carry out faster transports of their crops to and from the cereal plants and sugar mills with the new type of tractors, b, which can be driven for 50 kilometres per hour. Mr President, I would like to There is therefore nothing in the bill to the detriment of Sweden's farmers – quite the contrary. They are given the opportunity to drive faster transport by agricultural machinery and thus in many cases do not have to purchase lorries for these transports. Yet the alliance parties choose to submit a reservation that is a mercy to the Swedish haulage industry that carries out local transport. When it is not sowing or harvesting time many farmers practice one, I would call it, unfair competition against local haulage companies. It can be winter road maintenance and construction assignments or local transport of agricultural products. The farmers drive with subsidised diesel, they drive with excess loads without risking fines and they have fixed income in the form of harvest which means that the revenue for freight transport does not have to generate much money. Already today, the situation is problematic for many hauliers, especially during the low season for the farmers, as they compete with the hauliers for local transport. Should the Alliance's proposal go through, that is to say that the new tractor b, which will be allowed to drive at 50 kilometres per hour, would be allowed to run with overload, it would probably mean the blow to many local hauliers. The Swedish Democrats do not want to contribute to this. With these words, I call for approval of the bill as a whole and for rejection of the Alliance's reservation.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-103	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for an interesting post! In fact, the excess charge applies to everyone. Per Klarberg states in his speech that the overload charge does not apply to agricultural transport, which is incorrect. Why do you want to introduce tougher rules for Sweden's farmers when we are already in a competitive situation that is significantly worse for Sweden's farmers compared to Europe's? In this situation, you do not want Sweden's farmers to have the same opportunities as Danish and German farmers; you are prepared to back up the Green Party, the Left and the Social Democrats in imposing an overload charge on agricultural tractors. I would like to ask Per Klarberg the same question that I asked Leif Pettersson: Will it strengthen Sweden's farmers' competitiveness that we go one step further than Germany and Denmark on these questions? Should we not instead work to have a level playing field in Europe, so that we have the same competitiveness and conditions for Swedish farmers as for European farmers?
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-106	Mr President, I would like to The answer to the question is yes. I see nothing in the bill that would be a deterioration compared to what it is today. I forgot to mention one thing in my speech. I live in Trelleborg County down in Söderslätt. There we have Sweden's best arable land with class 10 soil. We have the fattest soil in all of Sweden, and it is excellent for growing sugar beet. If we are talking about road safety and braking distances for tractors, a tractor operating at 40 kilometres per hour carrying loads has an approximate braking distance of 20 metres. If one were to increase the speed to 50 kilometres per hour, the brake distance would be extended by 50 percent to 30 metres. In addition, allowing excess load for tractors that are allowed to drive at 50 kilometres per hour would mean an approximate braking distance of 40 metres for these combinations, i.e. the same braking distance as for a passenger car driving at 100 kilometres per hour. Could we consider allowing passenger cars that drive 100 kilometres per hour in urban areas? No. Can we allow passenger cars that drive 100 kilometres per hour through the villages? No. On the other hand, you want to allow tractors with a braking distance as long as these passenger cars have to travel 50 kilometres per hour through villages and towns with a braking distance of 40 metres. It is a dangerous proposal that you are making.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-111	Mr President, I would like to I can clearly hear how Per Klarberg defends these worse rules for Sweden's agriculture. He lifts up braking distances, but now it's just the same braking distances that Danish and German farmers will have. They are also the ones who will probably deliver food to Sweden in view of all the special rules we have introduced for our Swedish farmers. Instead, we will be buying foreign food. It is also a strange argument, given that these very excess loads, as is apparent, apply to tractor b. The LRF has also clearly stated that it does not want this in, because it affects Swedish farmers in particular. Is the LRF completely wrong in its analysis? Have they misunderstood the whole question? Per Klarberg believes that this is entirely reasonable for Swedish farmers to bear with their colleagues in Europe. I thought we agreed across all the block borders here in the Swedish parliament to actually work for better competitive conditions for Sweden's farmers, so that we can start producing and exporting more Swedish food. Then just such signals, rules and fees are an enormous yoke for Sweden's farmers. It continues to load Sweden's farmers a little harder and refers to long braking distances in the countryside. But I think most farmers don't drive so extremely fast that they will use the long brake distances Per Klarberg is talking about. Most farmers drive these transports from their field into their farm or between their fields on public roads. I do not have the same problem when it comes to whether Sweden's farmers will be able to cope with this. Will this strengthen Sweden's competitiveness? Is the LRF completely wrong?
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-116	Mr President, I would like to I think Mr Sten Bergheden is quite wrong. He makes it sound as if Swedish farmers basically only operate transport between A and B. I, who live down in Söderslätt, see, especially in the autumn, the heavy transports with beets that die through the communities and are a complete danger to the lives of those who live in the villages and for children who stay around the roads. In addition, the tractor driver has less visibility than a truck driver has. Do you want to have tractor slips passing through the villages for 50 kilometres per hour with a 40-metre braking distance? Sten Bergheden refers to Denmark and Germany. But is that an excuse? If you have idiot rules there, should you introduce the same rules in Sweden? I do not see the problems raised by Sten Bergheden. There is nothing in this bill that makes it worse for Swedish farmers compared to today. On the contrary, a new type of territory is introduced that is allowed to walk at 50 kilometres per hour. This is great. Why can we not settle for that and say thank you, we are happy that we have to drive at 50 kilometres per hour? Why do you also have to throw on an overload? I fully agree with Leif Pettersson when he says that overload is a nuisance, regardless of the vehicle.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-124	Mr President, I would like to The report on compulsory assessment aid in grade 1 proposes the introduction of precisely compulsory assessment aid, with a view to improving the conditions for schools to identify early pupils who are at risk of not meeting some of the knowledge requirements and may therefore need special support. The Swedish school clearly needs to be better than today at providing special support early. This issue has received a lot of attention in recent years, and the Left Party welcomes the fact that the government and the committee want to improve the conditions for it in various ways. For example, we agree with the Government on the ongoing efforts to increase the number of employees in the primary and pre-school classes, increase special pedagogy skills and increase the number of training places in special education and training courses. Like the Teachers' Association, however, we believe that the starting point must be that teachers choose an assessment support or use their own knowledge and tools in a way that suits the situation, group or student that is currently in play. Once the new assessment support has been developed, there is a risk that many teachers will experience this as yet another burden placed on them from above, and that politics will again show mistrust and not trust in the competence and ability of the teaching staff. In addition to the Teachers' Association, the Swedish School Leaders' Association is critical of the proposal. It is believed that it is starting at the wrong end, as it has literally put it. The Swedish National Agency for Education is also concerned about how an obligatory will be received, given the discussions in recent years on the workload of teachers and the scope of the monitoring system. We believe that continuing efforts on teachers' skills and conditions to use their knowledge in practice is the best way for the school to catch up early and provide support to those students who need special support and who have fallen behind in school. The Swedish National Agency for Education's development of assessment support and assessment documents is also an important work that should be continued. However, we cannot support the proposal for compulsory assessment aid to be provided, and we are therefore calling for the proposal to be rejected in the report and for the Left Party's reservation to be accepted.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-130	Mr President, I would like to Let me start by saying that we have a good school. We have a good school with many committed adults who in their various professional roles contribute to learning and knowledge. However, we also have challenges. The latest PISA survey, from 2012, shows that the results in the Swedish school continue to decline in mathematics and reading comprehension, among other things. For the first time ever, Sweden is now below the OECD average in these areas. In addition, more and more people do not qualify for the national programmes of upper secondary school. The proposal contains a proposal to amend the Education Act. The proposal means that the government or the authority that the government decides must be able to provide regulations on the obligation for the authorities to use assessment support in grade 1 in comprehensive school, primary school, special school and Sami school. As described in the bill, so is the aim to improve the conditions for early identification of students who are at risk of not reaching those parts of the knowledge requirements in Swedish and Swedish as second language related to reading and writing development or the knowledge requirement in mathematics and students who need extra challenges to reach as far as possible, so that relevant support efforts are put in place when necessary. The School Act says that it should take into account the different needs of children and pupils and that children and pupils should be given the guidance and stimulus they need to learn and develop based on their own circumstances. In order to achieve this, municipalities must allocate resources to education within the school system according to the different conditions and needs of children and pupils. Today there is already a chain of tools to monitor and evaluate the learning and learning that takes place in school. If one fears that a student will not meet the knowledge requirements, the student shall be supported, and if it does not help, action programmes shall be established. It is important that support is provided in the manner and to the extent necessary to enable the student to meet the minimum knowledge requirements. Despite this chain of tools, there are differences between schools and between students in the ability to achieve the set knowledge goals. That is why national assessment aid is already in year 1 so important. They provide increased conditions for support measures to be put in place in early years, so that students do not risk not reaching the knowledge goals in later grades. Support can also help identify those students who need extra challenges to reach as far as possible. Finally, they are important because assessments are made on the basis of a national and uniform assessment basis, which contributes to the equivalence of teachers' assessments and also in the collegial work between teachers. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to say that it is our duty to put in place all the measures necessary to enable all children and young people to succeed in school and to move on to life. I support the committee's proposal.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-137	Mr President, I would like to I do not want to prolong the debate too much, but I would like to ask Gunilla Svantorp a question. How does it feel to trust the teaching staff, the competence of the teachers and the training they have received when introducing mandatory assessment support in this way? As we see it, the problem today is not that teachers do not have the tools to catch students early. The problem is not that teachers do not have that competence either. Instead, the problem today is that teachers and school staff are forced at all to be more and more administrative and financial officials rather than educational leaders and teachers. So instead of being trusted to work with the knowledge they possess, they work with tasks that have nothing to do with their mission. How would this be facilitated by the compulsory assessment aid? We know that in recent years there has been a great deal of discussion about the administrative burden on teachers. We have also had a lot of discussions about the fact that we just have to trust the teaching staff's skills. I cannot see this being done by introducing mandatory assessment aid, and I would like Gunilla Svantorp to explain how the government and the Social Democrats think about this.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-140	Mr President and Daniel Riazat! This proposal does not imply any mistrust of staff and teachers at school. Instead, it is an attempt to correct what we see is not working, namely that there is so much difference between schools and between pupils. If you have better opportunities to make equivalent assessments, the chance to do better quality monitoring will also increase. That is the big reason why we now think it is important to deploy national assessment aid. The Swedish National Agency for Education has also created a huge participation in this work by having a survey out there that any teacher can answer until 30 November, in order to contribute to the assessment support being as good as possible. I would like to stress that this is certainly not a question of distrust of staff and teachers, but of quality monitoring and the possibility of ensuring that all children actually receive support much earlier than today.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-143	Mr President, I would like to I thank Gunilla Svantorp for her reply. However, I would like to return to this with the confidence in the competence of the teaching staff. Somewhere I understand absolutely what the government and the rest of the committee mean when it comes to facilitating, that it should be equal, etcetera. I think we can all support that. However, the question is whether this is to tackle the problem from scratch or whether it is to put a patch on something that needs to be taken from scratch. Teachers today know what action needs to be taken, but they must not do so for economic reasons. Everyone who has visited a school – one of all schools is enough – knows that that's how it is, that the skills exist. There are also support tools for teachers to be able to capture early problems in students etcetera. But the teachers are locked in the very tight and square economic one-year frameworks that the municipalities have. As a result, they cannot make the necessary efforts. I mean, this gives an outward view of how this is supposed to make things easier. In fact, however, it will not matter, because what governs is not compulsory assessment aid, but what will continue to govern is the economy, which ultimately leads to a lack of confidence in teachers' professional skills. I do not mean that the government is responsible for this because it has been going on for a very long time. But when you are involved in pushing this through, you are responsible for the fact that it continues to be this way and that the problem is not tackled from the ground up.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-147	Mr President, I would like to Daniel Riazat! Of course, this is an important piece of the puzzle to deal with a major problem that still exists. The most important thing – I think we agree on this because we agree on the joint draft budget that is now before us – is that we are providing resources to school, something that has not been done many years before. The government is also clear that it intends to follow this up very closely. Now that I have the chance, I would like to invite the teachers who may be a little hesitant about this to go in and submit comments on the Swedish National Agency for Education's website. There you can think about and influence this work so that it will be really good, and that's what we want.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-149	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish school has for a long time been far too bad at helping and so tired the students when they are small, then help and support are most useful. Many are the first students to receive support, and in the vast majority of cases it is far too late. Not least in my professional life as a Swedish teacher at high school, I have seen how it has been possible to go six years at school with considerable difficulties in reading comprehension without adequate support being put in place. This should not happen in the Swedish school. Step by step, the school now gets previous control stations that make it easier for students, teachers and parents to measure and assess how well students keep up with teaching and achieve the goals set in the curriculum. And, Mr President, it is necessary, above all, because it clarifies the school's responsibility to provide the support and assistance that the student needs in mathematics or Swedish, for example. Previous support and help give more students an opportunity to get to their right, develop and reach the goals. With today's proposal, which we are now debating, it is good to note that there is now broad agreement on this. I think I speak for both me and my colleagues in the Alliance – the Christian Democrats, the Center Party and the People's Party, or call them Liberals if you like – when I say that the mandatory assessment support from grade 1 in Swedish and mathematics was one of the most important parts of the so-called grade agreement that the Alliance and government parties concluded in February this year. I therefore welcome the fact that the Social Democrats and the Green Party also now subscribe to our view of what is important in school, namely the development of students' knowledge. Mr President, I would like to The fact that the compulsory assessment support is now in place means that we will be able to ensure an equivalent assessment of our students. It strengthens the teaching profession. But above all, it strengthens the students' right to receive extra support in terms of reading comprehension and basic understanding of mathematics. Not least, this will be of great help to the large number of newly arrived children who will start in the Swedish school. As I said, I welcome the fact that the Social Democrats and the Green Party share the Alliance's view that children should be better helped in their early journey of knowledge. At the same time, however, I am deeply concerned that the government is not prepared to make the necessary changes to the preschool class that we in Parliament have decided on. A ten-year primary school would make it possible for this aid to have an even better effect. Mr President, I would like to Compared to other OECD countries, Sweden has a later school start and less teaching time. It contributes to lower reading comprehension, difficulties in mathematics and falling results. Therefore only making the preschool class compulsory, without changing the goals and content of the preschool class, is a blow to the air. This will not have a significant impact on the development of children's knowledge compared to what it looks like today. On the other hand, with a combination of compulsory assessment support and a ten-year primary school according to our model, children would have better opportunities and opportunities to build a more robust knowledge base in the past. Unfortunately, the government has not understood the significance of this. But, Mr President, given that both the Social Democrats and the Green Party have previously had a historical scepticism about our view of school knowledge, there is perhaps a possibility that we will also reach agreement on the issue of a ten-year primary school and better support for students in the future. I would really like to emphasise that I am pleased that we have been able to find an agreement that includes this assessment support for our children, and I address my colleagues in the Social Democrats and the Green Party. Compulsory assessment aid is a hugely important decision, and the future will show how important it is.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-158	Mr President, I would like to I support the proposal in the report, and I share Camilla Grönvall's satisfaction that so many of us today agree to support this report. Mr President, I would like to The government has three main priorities for school. The first is to develop the school, contribute to the development of knowledge, contribute to the development of students. The second is to make the school equal and equal. The third is to help support and invest in the teaching profession and teachers. The combination of these three priorities is important for developing the Swedish school. It is even more important after eight years of the Alliance's mismanagement of the school. Mr President, I would like to What we are discussing today is compulsory assessment aid. Research carried out in other countries shows that the countries at the forefront are countries, such as Finland, which invest in early age support. It's important. And if you are to be able to invest in the early ages in the children who need it, you must have an assessment support. It must be possible to identify the children who need support and the extent to which support can be provided. That's exactly why it's so important. The reasoning that if we do this, we do not trust the teachers is completely wrong. Although we trust the teachers and think that they are doing an excellent job, it is important to have regulations that ensure that every child who needs support is given the support that she or he deserves. That is the basis for the government proposal and the report that we are debating today.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-162	Mr President, I would like to For time winning, I only apply for reservation 1. Today we are dealing with a motion report with a broad perspective on military issues. There are a large number of claims to be considered. It is important that we, together with the Ministry and the Swedish Armed Forces, manage to optimise the defence across the board. First, we need to take a position on the major horizontal issues such as funding, objectives and direction. Then comes the question of organisation. How will the defense be strategically organised? Here we come to some of the key points in the report: the fact that the Swedish army should grow in size. The army, as well as the defence as a whole, has undergone transformations that have fundamentally affected the operation. The transformation of defence is the result of various decisions in this House. The defence's appropriations have been nominally halved, but the defence's capabilities have simultaneously been divided into ten. This is the cost of all conversions. When the Berlin Wall fell, this House cut down the Swedish defence so much that we lost all our defence capabilities. It was the so-called strategic timeout. It was going too far, everyone realizes now. This House then gave the defence a new direction in the defence decision of 2004. Invasion defence would be an intervention defence – or as it was sometimes said: Sweden's defence begins in Afghanistan. Defending Sweden against a possible attacker thus became a secondary task. Sweden's army would include twelve battalions that could be deployed anywhere in the world in peacekeeping operations. The data became easier than in the previous invasion defense. Patrol duty and company combat against guerrillas were the natural target. It may be so difficult to perform in foreign countries and environments, but it is simpler systems and a cheaper operation. The Swedish army came to be part of an intervention defense with very limited scope. What then surprised me was that this House put additional savings on the defence so that today's small intervention defence lacks material for SEK 50 billion. The army, which would be given a careful number if 13 000 soldiers could not be filled with contracted soldiers, but 7 000 former conscript graduates had to fill in for the army to become full. In this way this House had provided Sweden with a poorly equipped army of twelve battalions. Then came the reports from the Defence Committee prior to the defence decision of 2015. The security situation in our immediate vicinity had deteriorated. We Swedish democrats had long sounded the alarm about this in the debate. First to wake up among the other parties were the Social Democrats, followed by the People's Party and the Christian Democrats. Today, all eight parties agree that Sweden needs an invasion defence and that the first task of the Swedish defence is to defend Sweden. These great fluctuations in the direction of Sweden's defence are devastating. We knew earlier that the security situation could change rapidly but that military capabilities take a long time to build. This insight is old and known, and we defence policies have heard it hundreds of times. Why did governments ignore this insight? A great deal of effort will be needed to shift the defence to the protection of Sweden quickly enough. The staggering first steps have been taken. The overall defence objectives have now been set high by this House, but the defence allocation remains unchanged. Or if one should be careful: Including inflation, this House has reduced the defence budget by SEK 200 million. That's not good enough. The defence budget must be substantially increased. An invasion defense is far more complex than an intervention defense. It will withstand an advanced opponent. The Invasion Defense is a system of systems of systems. The ground forces of the field army shall be restructured in order to be able to fight in Brigadier format. The Brigade format has all the relevant abilities gathered and is adapted for advanced combat. I am pleased that all eight parties want an invasion defense once again based, among other things, on Brigadier's ability to fight. But the problem is, when we piece together our ground forces, we can build only two brigades. Two brigades are far too little to defend Sweden. And how are we going to group two brigades in our elongated country? It goes without saying that if we are to have an invasion defense, the army must have more brigades than two. The Swedish Democrats propose an army of eight brigades, seven mechanized brigades and for Stockholm a city shooting brigade. We believe that this is the lowest level for the Swedish army. I assume that the other seven parties agree that two brigades are too little for the army. We need to wake up now. If we're gonna build an invasion defense, we're gonna have to shoot money right now. It is not good enough that we are the Baltic Sea region that invests least in defence. However, we agree on one thing. We're going to have an invasion defense to create a threshold against the abuse. It should be very difficult and extremely costly to take or violate Swedish territory. It's the content of a threshold effect. In the event of advanced attacks on our country, in other words, in the event of Sweden being drawn into a full-scale war, we shall be able, despite all the ensuing difficulties, to face and stem or ward off the attacks. We must note that the threshold effect consists only of the conditions of full war. What the Armed Forces can do in peace is irrelevant to the threshold effect. This leads us to an important conclusion: we defence policy must reverse the helm and start talking about defence in the event of war. Over the past few years, concepts such as a delay battle and the replacement of losses have been prohibited in the defence debate. We have to change that. When we war-adjust the defense and talk about what the defense can do in the event of a full war, we build a threshold. Then we'll work for peace. As it is now, when we have adapted the defence to peace and talk about what the defence can do in peace, we are not building a threshold. Then we are not in favour of peace. Therefore, for the sake of peace from now on, let us talk about the war-adjusted defence. Another old lesson that we have forgotten is the importance of defence exercises. Bands that are not trained have very low ability. We therefore propose regular war unit exercises of at least one brigade per year, preferably two brigades per year.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-184	Mr President, I would like to The Left Party has not tabled any motions under this point. It is probably an event that looks like a thought, as will probably be evident from my speech shortly. Nevertheless, I would like to call for a motion to be approved, namely the Green Party's motion on counter-trading. Someone has to do it, too. I believe that the regulation and transparency of the defence industry's counter-purchase transactions should be realised. As the defence industry's counter-purchase business has a significant social impact, it is appropriate, in my opinion, for the government to take the initiative to investigate the issue of counter-purchase and its consequences and to present proposals regulating the industry's use of these counter-purchase arrangements. I therefore propose that point 7 be added to paragraph 8. Then I would like to debate detailed governance, which, on the basis of my experience as Chairman of the Municipal Executive Board for sixteen years, is one of the worst policy can deal with. It is evil, not only me with my experience but also the Swedish National Audit Office. What is interesting is that I believe that all parties agreed with this in the debate at the Swedish Defence College that took place the day before the Committee on Defence began to deal with the report. Yet, there are motions that:
i-Qg4em3ETjZFNcakMXc3vBV	The Home Guard should be equipped with grenade launchers, anti-tank missiles and bridge-laying capabilities The air defence should reintegrate a tactical radio system ( Taras) to realise its own Link 16-like network, where we can then choose national crypto or NATO crypto The Swedish Armed Forces should buy back the small submarine HMS Spiggen so that it can either become a exercise object or be placed in a suitable museum 中 the field boots should be polished along the seams. No, the last one was my own addition, but the former are authentic motions from the Swedish Democrats. If this is not political detail management, then I do not know what detail control is. Where is confidence in the ability of the professional organisation? What happens when you control details? Well, then strategic governance is often neglected. The wrong decision risks being taken because it is difficult for the policy to see the whole complex context. But above all, and this is the worst, a professional organization that is managed in detail risks losing energy and creativity and becoming increasingly passive and waiting for the next hugshot or detail control.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-196	Mr President, I would like to This concerns a so-called motion report. It is the ingenuity of the Members of this House who are connected to the field of defence policy. So it is, if you will excuse the expression, both chopped and minced and small and large. Nevertheless, the committee has made two announcements, which I believe the government, with the support of this House, will eventually have to take into account. One is about the importance of reviewing the handling of environmental matters that affect our military training fields. Today, a large proportion of our training fields are subject to various types of environmental testing, and restrictions arise, Mr President, with regard to the use of these areas by the Swedish Armed Forces. The specialization decision adopted by the Riksdag before the summer recess emphasises that the single most important thing during the upcoming defence decision-making period is to increase operational capacity. Mr President, I would like to A prerequisite for this objective is, among other things, access to military training fields. That is why it is a very important point that the committee makes, albeit a little more detailed, Mr Stig Henriksson. The second announcement is about the importance of Sweden prioritising its long-term capacity to fight. Military strategic Sweden is not a peninsula, Mr President, but an island. The meaning of this is that any opponent who wants us badly needs to get over water or possibly in the sky above water. It is when the opponent is there that he or she is at his or her most arrestable and easiest to fight for a Swedish military defence. In this context, the possibility of meeting an enemy early with our weapons will be of particular importance. When a possible opponent has stepped ashore in the Swedish land territory, Mr President, he or she becomes considerably more difficult to deal with. Mr President, I would like to I will briefly comment on some of the points made by Mikael Jansson. He exclaimed at the outset that it is this House which, through its various decisions, has ensured that Sweden has now lost all its defence capabilities. I am not one of the politicians who tend to paint, as it is said, in the description of the military defence, but I think it is important to say that Sweden certainly has abilities in different ways and to some volume. Much has disappeared, but in the process I believe that the defence policy and also the Swedish Armed Forces as an authority have ensured the maintenance of competences in all the different areas of military defence. This has ensured the possibility of being able to grow quantitatively in a changing world situation. In that sense, Mikael Jansson is quite right. What we are now looking at is not a time of further cuts or closures of regiments and fleets in this country. It is, Mr President, a time of increasing Swedish defence volume with greater operational capacity. At the same time, Mikael Jansson gave the international operations a boot. I cannot agree with his assertion that international activity is a cheaper and simpler activity. I think it is so expensive and often so complex, when you are far away and have to adapt to the rules and rules of engagement that are set between countries. Of course, the focus on international efforts has made us forget and to some extent prioritised national abilities. But my assessment, Mr President, is that if Sweden had not participated in international activities in the 1990s and the 00s, our abilities today would have been even worse than they are. Mr President, I would like to Stig Henriksson is happy and often dwells on the issue of detail management in the defence policy. I think Stig Henriksson is right in many things. His list was almost ludicrous as to the degree of detail. At the same time, it should not be overlooked that this is a very special area. The military monopoly of violence in the event of armed attack has always ensured that democracies have made close links between military defence and the political leaders. One example – if I'm going to take any of them – is the schizophrenicism that is being carried out in the US Congress every year by also very small equipment projects. We have the fact that the President of the Danish Parliament is actually on the Home Guard's board. All in all are expressions of the importance of popular attachment to a military defence, and it is important to remember. Not all the times when politicians have acted in my years in the Committee on Defence, Mr President, it has become completely insane. A very good example of this I think is the helicopter Black Hawk NH90, which neither the Swedish Armed Forces nor the industry thought it was really an idea to acquire. But it is that helicopter that now, a few years later, more or less alone among our medium-helicopters is generating real ability. There, Mr President, a decision that required political energy!
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-214	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I do not think that this exercise and shooting field is detail control. At least it is getting closer to the level we should be pursuing. Above all, however, I would like to say that it is, of course, the policy that has a preference for interpretation of how and what one interferes with. If an area has not been managed well enough, I think it is perfectly reasonable to go deeper than you would otherwise do. The very helicopter issue raised by Allan Widman is a very good example of the fact that there are times when you should do just that. Allan Widman says the defense is a very special area. I would like to say that I fully agree with that – although perhaps not in the same way that Allan Widman is referring to. I would say that this is almost more complex than most policy areas, which makes the control of detail more dangerous. It's very difficult to understand all the consequences – when you say, 150 men on Gotland, or something like that – and all that comes with it, both practice and shooting fields, logage and all that it can be. It shows that it may not always be so good. I agree with the importance of peoples' attachment, although I think that the conscription discussion is more appropriate than the detailed management. I think it is serious that neither the Minister for Defence nor the Swedish Armed Forces, for example, can talk about the budgetary implications of the 6 000 vacant posts we held last year. No one can answer that. I think that could be done much better.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-218	Mr President, I would like to I took Black Hawk NH90 as an example of exemplary political action. We have ordered other helicopters, including in the early 2000s, which were well characterized by great political commitment but which have not become as good, so it is quite right that you sometimes meet right and sometimes do not. I can also agree that the Swedish Armed Forces – in that it is such a complex operation, a system of systems that itself consists of even more subsystems – is more delicate to intervene. Nevertheless, my assessment is that when we come to the system-critical issues, politics has been more gentle and listening to the military profession. But sometimes there are political short-circuits in the dialogue between the Armed Forces and politics. This happened in connection with the orientation decision on Gotland, Mr President. The Swedish Armed Forces did not even want to hear about any form of permanent presence on Gotland. At the same time, there was a large and broad political consensus that it was important from many security policy points of view for Sweden to have just that. When the systems are unable to communicate with each other, we land in that we now have tanks – that's probably so good – and mechanized units on the island. But, Mr President, with reference to the discussion on long-range control capacity, it is the type of unit that will only be effective when a possible opponent has landed on Gotland. Of course, what we needed were long - range weapons that could face him or her earlier.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-222	Mr President, I would like to I think that politics should have formulated itself in terms of a mission to increase defence capabilities on Gotland and make the necessary resources available – and then hand over to the profession to do it best within a given framework. They don't want to implement it – even though it's said – you should simply replace the management, very unsentimental. But I assume they would. It is popular to always refer to authorities. I have previously used the Swedish National Audit Office, but I will also use the research – you always choose the research that you think fits into your argumentation. It was written the other day in the newspaper about Katarina Gospic, who is a doctor and brain researcher and has studied this with leadership. I'll read it in front of you. Another common mistake that leaders make is to regulate the work in detail and thereby limit the independence and influence of the employees. It gives the signal that you do not trust the person and that the individual performance does not matter. When we find solutions and strategies for ourselves, we get a reward shower that increases motivation. ..................................................... The propensity to use micromanagement is very great and not entirely unknown in these matters.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-226	Mr President, I would like to I have already stated in principle in part the criticism that Stig Henriksson makes of the relationship between politics and authority in the field of defence. At one time military defence operations were very clearly characterized by what was then called mission tactics: they set a goal and then had subordinates find the methods and means needed to achieve that goal. With regard to the relationship of politics to the Authority and the Authority's leadership to those who are at the end of the line, I too am one of those who lack that particular task tactic.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-228	Mr President, I would like to Military issues – questions from the general period of exercise – are being discussed in the Chamber today. It feels like these movements have become even more topical since they were written, given the developments we have in Europe and the world right now, even more so in recent days. It makes me reflect a little on the change that is taking place in society. My life has passed about half, and I can think about how I was in my youth when I graduated in 1990. It was a time when the Berlin Wall fell, and we discovered in Sweden in some way that we did not have mixed economy but had had a market economy all the time – it was only in the study books that it said something else. I did my military service at this time. It was the end of the Cold War. It was a military system or a defence force that I might have experienced based on the conditions of the 40's, 50's and 60's. I thought it was pretty out-of-date. There was a belief in the future. It was the EU. That was the idea of peace. These were international efforts for the Swedish Armed Forces. But now that I am standing in this Chamber 25 years later, it is a completely different picture that appears in front of me. It can change pretty fast. We've been talking about Ukraine and hybrid warfare, how it's changed. The terrorist threat is, of course, topical in recent days and has been topical for quite a long time. We have the changes around the Baltic Sea, with the training area that is there, which brings together different armed forces. There will be uncertainty that will allow us to impose higher demands on the Swedish Armed Forces. At the same time, I think it is important to say, even when we are discussing defence policy: bombing is not the solution to all the problems in the world. It is still the case that democracy, openness, freedom and humanity make the long-term solutions in some way. I think we should always have that with us. It is clear that free trade diplomacy is important then. Sometimes military power must also be used, but in the long term, I believe that freedom and democracy are absolutely the most important thing. We took a defence decision here in this House before the summer, which involves major changes. We strengthen Swedish defence capabilities, we increase the operational capability of our military units and we raise our threshold capacity. It is important to say that there were many parties behind it. We also go to a national defense that we build up. In the flow of exercise that we have to consider, the fields of exercise also come up for discussion. If we are to increase the ability of our Swedish military units, it is important that we can practice and that we have access to our training fields in a wise way. In the future it may be difficult to open up new training fields. Then it is extremely important that we care for those we already have, even in view of the environmental testing that exists around them. The previous government struggled with these issues for eight years. Obviously, nothing has happened. Now we have a new government, and I hope that government will perform in this area, so that we can have full access to the training fields that we have. As far as national defence is concerned, we have often said that shell defence is important to us. Then the investment in anti-aircraft to strengthen our ships and our Gripen aircraft, which is made in the defence decision that has been taken, is of course important. Then there are also wordings about long-range pesticides. It's important. It is exactly in line with the defence decision that has been taken. It is good that we should make it clear to the government that it is important that we move on with this. These things have been handled in full accordance with the defence decision taken by the Swedish Parliament. Mr President, I would like to With these words, I call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-240	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by calling for the proposal to be approved in the Committee's report FÖU3. We are now going to discuss a general exercise report. It contains 51 different forms of order. It is about materials, exercise activities, the Swedish Armed Forces' facilities and more. There are also two announcements. One is about the environmental testing of shooting fields, which my colleague Jan R Andersson will then address. The second announcement is about long-range pesticides and that it will be a priority material for future mandates. The capacity for long-range control is important and would also add a new capability to the existing defence tools and should, in that case, be a priority material issue. It gives an opportunity, as Allan Widman explained here earlier, to hit a possible assailant's fixed facilities and thus weaken the attack force against Sweden. The weapon system can be used on aircraft and boats, and the Swedish Jas Gripen system has already been tested to carry so-called cruise missiles. Mr President, I would like to The defence agreement concluded between the government and the Moderates, the Center Party and the Christian Democrats includes three specific priorities: an investment in the defence base plate, strengthening Gotland and strengthening submarine hunting capabilities. Otherwise, the settlement is based on the five priorities that the Swedish Armed Forces itself set to strengthen Sweden's defence here and now. The defense is not at all as bad as Mikael Jansson sounds suggestive. I think it's kind of embarrassing to stand there and say that. We have a good defense. It may not be huge right now, but it's sharp, and we have very good military personnel. Finally, the agreement also includes an important investigation into the sustainable supply of personnel, the supply of future materials and supplies. The period beyond 2020 presents major challenges in terms of material needs, which will require considerable financial resources. It is therefore important that the need be thoroughly investigated. The defense arrangement was a first important step to strengthen the defence in an uncertain time. However, we do not see any signs that the security situation in the immediate vicinity of Sweden will improve, as soon as possible the opposite. The conflict in Ukraine has become permanent, and Russia still has aggressive and offensive behaviour in the Baltic Sea region. We have now seen what has happened in Paris, and we do not know at all what will happen in the future. The defence agreement does not mean a final point in the defence policy, but instead a starting point for strengthening the Swedish defence. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats, as we heard earlier, want to restore the old invasion defence. I think we should have a close-up defense here and now. The old invasion defense is not the answer to today's and tomorrow's solutions. What is also remarkable is how SD wants to regulate detail, including in terms of how the defence should act. They say, for example, that there should always be two patrol vessels at sea, one in the Baltic Sea and one in the Western Sea. They also specify the exact pieces to be purchased. Now it is not we who state exactly whether it is play A, B or C that is to be purchased; it is FMV that manages it. I think we should be happy about that. Sweden needs to strengthen its defence in a troubled time. This should be done by focusing on a defence that is characterised by competence, flexibility and high preparedness, a defence that can meet traditional military threats but also meet the challenges of modern warfare, and a coordinated use of military and civilian tools in a situation where the boundary between war and peace is increasingly blurred. Therefore, I have to say again that I am sad and upset when you black out the Swedish defence. On the contrary, stand up for our men and women who are in the defence and for our men and women who are abroad! That's why we have the yellow mark on us. Honor our defenses and our military. In the Swedish Democrats' motion, it is also stated that nine Helicopter 10 will be transferred from the defence to the Coast Guard. It is not something that the Coast Guard wanted and wants. It is therefore very strange. Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, when it comes to cooperation with NATO, the Swedish democrats show less commitment. In parallel with the strengthening of Swedish defence, we must also increase cooperation with NATO. It is no secret that the Moderates want a Swedish NATO membership. Support for this is also increasing, both in Parliament and among the general public. NATO membership would seriously strengthen Sweden's security through NATO's common security guarantees. Unfortunately, the Swedish Democrats do not see the benefits of a Swedish NATO membership, but have said on several occasions that it is important not to upset Russia. However, the NATO scepticism of the leadership of the Swedish Democrats is not shared by their sympathizers. Opinion polls show that the vast majority of those who are willing to vote for the Swedish Democrats are in fact in favour of membership of NATO. Mr President, I would like to We Moderates and the Alliance want an open and transparent market in defence equipment, especially in the case of exports. It is then unfortunate that the S- and MP-r era has chosen to close FXM, the Swedish Defence Export Agency. In a report from Statskontoret, it is confirmed that FXM has made export support more visible, since the operations are currently conducted by a separate authority with its own funding and are reported in a separate annual report. Export support is therefore more visible and easier to control, account and follow up. The Green Party calls for more transparency in the defence industry's counter-buying business in a motion addressed in the report. My question to the Green Party will then be: Why do you want to shut down FXM, which has increased transparency? Finally, Mr President, at present the number of military airports has been considerably reduced, and the so-called air raids do not exist anymore. You can tell when you're out on the road. And if they were, I'm sure there's some middle railing on them. It is therefore important that there are a number of civil airports available to the military in the event of a crisis or a serious military event. One of these airports is Bromma Airport. There is a motion on this. The consequences of the closure of Bromma and its impact on preparedness and use of civil airports are not clear. It is stressed in the exercise that this should be properly investigated. It is therefore unfortunate that the Green Party and also the Social Democrats in the City of Stockholm are pushing the issue of closure hard. That is why this exercise is important. The committee points out that the Swedish Armed Forces have made it clear that there is a need for all the airports in the national base supply, including Bromma. I would therefore like to ask the Green Party: why is it more important to build housing at Bromma airport than to provide defence and, of course, civil aviation an important airport?
i-VGScytTnktbtrL3KxiefNY	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered by Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson, Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson, Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson, Minister Åsa Regnér and Minister of State Per Bolund. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson answers both general policy questions and questions within his own area of responsibility.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-262	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask a question to Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson. The large number of unaccompanied minors who have arrived during the autumn and who come all the time is a major challenge for the authorities and not least the municipalities, perhaps especially the municipalities of arrival. Many unaccompanied children come to Malmö and, for example, Trelleborg. Over 4,000 unaccompanied minors arrived there for a number of intense weeks. However, many of these children deviated before being registered. They did not seek asylum either. This means that they did not receive a so-called dossier number from the Migration Agency. This in turn means that the Migration Agency does not pay any compensation. It is a major concern that no one knows where all these children and young people have gone. Some may have moved on to other countries while others risk living in a shadow society. Does the Minister of Migration intend to work to ensure that the Migration Agency, that is, the State, also reimburses the arrival municipalities for the costs they have incurred for unaccompanied minors who were never registered?
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-267	Mr President, I would like to Indeed, as Gunilla Nordgren points out, many unaccompanied minors are coming to Sweden right now. We must have order and order in the reception. That is why we introduced border controls at the borders between Germany and Sweden and Denmark and Sweden on Thursday. We did this in order to be able to control the business so that we can minimize the risks with not knowing who it is that comes into Sweden. It was extremely important that we did it. We will continue to follow developments very closely. I believe that we have achieved some of the purpose of border controls. As regards the finances of the municipalities, we also decided last week on additional support for the municipalities, almost SEK 10 billion. The municipalities that have taken on and assume a great responsibility are first in line when these resources are to be allocated.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-270	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank you for your answer. I fully agree that it was necessary to introduce border controls. But I am talking about the weeks before border controls were introduced. And the distribution rate in the amending budget applies to the refugees received. But this refers to transit homes in the municipalities, such as Malmö and Trelleborg, for refugees who were to be taken further. The coming billions are not helping in terms of the costs of the unaccompanied minors who were never registered at the Migration Board. Unfortunately, this is not helping. Hence my question as to whether the Minister would be willing to instruct the Migration Agency to pay for these costs as well. There are also additional costs for guarding and things that have not been reimbursed either. So this applies to the weeks before border controls were introduced.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-274	Mr President, I would like to When there are as many people as it has now, I think it is almost impossible to sort out exactly how many were there. It is therefore difficult to make a correct assessment of it afterwards. I note, however, that the money that we spent on the municipalities last week did not just mean the distribution in terms of ensuring that those who have taken the greatest responsibility would also receive the most money. In fact, there was also an extra pot in the calculation for Trelleborg. I have quite close contacts with the Scanian municipalities, for natural reasons. And it has eased considerably in Trelleborg since the introduction of border controls. Generally speaking, we have cleared the cost situation. Now, perhaps, it is primarily about challenges other than economics, such as logistics. So there was more money. And we made sure to treat Trelleborg especially.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-280	Mr President, I would like to On 25 September, an up-to-date debate was held in the Riksdag in connection with the migration crisis. The Minister for Migration was then extremely clear about the government's attitude at the time regarding the return of people who have passed safe countries. The Minister rallied over the attitude of the Swedish Democrats and the principle of first safe country. He felt that it was not possible to return people who had crossed a safe country to that very country. He said that if all countries apply that principle, it is a question of throwing people back into a war zone. He went on to say that it is now decided what kind of country Sweden should be. ..................................................... What's really going on? Does Morgan Johansson intend to work to return asylum seekers from the Middle East who have passed Denmark, for example, to Denmark?
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-282	Mr President, I would like to The Geneva Convention is very clear: people must not be returned to a war zone or areas where they risk persecution. That is the cornerstone of refugee policy. But once the refugees come to Europe, the European countries must take joint responsibility. That is why we have the Dublin Regulation. And Sweden is a country that has been applying the Dublin Regulation all along. We've never said anything else. If you have registered in a country, you will also be able to be returned to that country. Right now, when we have a more difficult situation than we have ever faced in modern times, all countries must be prepared to take responsibility. This applies to Sweden, but it also applies to Denmark. I can only say that, after we introduced border controls, Denmark is a country that is not prepared to take responsibility. They have said that they do not want to take responsibility, because – they say it openly – they do not want more asylum seekers. It's quite remarkable.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-285	Mr President, I would like to Today we see a totally unsustainable situation. Not only are we cutting into welfare, raising taxes, stealing money from aid, but we are now also going to borrow money to somehow finance asylum immigration and keep municipalities above the surface. The fact that Morgan Johansson and the other government in this situation are starting to rumble over proposals that can actually solve this chaos is extremely sad. For example, the Swedish Democrats have never proposed sending anyone back to war. When the Swedish Democrats say one thing, it's called a terrible view of people. When the Moderates open up to exactly the same thing, the Minister is cautiously positive. It's very strange. Finally, I would like to make it clear that it is my hope that the Minister will take the necessary measures to significantly reduce the pressure on Sweden. The border has long been reached. Is the Minister prepared to recognise this and take concrete action?
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-288	Mr President, I would like to Since the start of the war in Syria, Sweden has provided shelter for nearly 100 000 Syrian refugees. I'm incredibly proud of that. We are the country throughout Europe that has done the most to clarify the situation. If the Swedish Democrats had the power to decide, we would hardly have let anyone in at all. That is what separates the Swedish Democrats from other parties. When the rest of us say that we must be prepared to take our responsibility, the Swedish Democrats, whether 10 or 100 people have come to the border, say all the time: No, we should not let in. This distinguishes the Swedish Democrats from other parties. We accept our responsibility as a nation. And we have taken a greater responsibility than anyone else. What I am saying is that other countries must also be prepared to do so. This cannot be just about Sweden, Germany or Austria. We have a security situation which, not least after the Paris attack, can develop and become more serious, and I think that a country like Denmark should be involved in taking greater responsibility.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-292	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson. I have read articles about local employment agencies which now close their offices and take down the sign. About a year ago, Director General Mikael Sjöberg published an article in which he wrote that he would close 100 out of about 300 offices around the country. There were very strong reactions to this, and the Government and I also had a debate in this House. What I heard from the government was that really big stabbing sex, she wasn't prepared to back it up. Last week we had a visit to the committee by the Director-General who once again said that 80 – 100 offices are going away. My question to the Minister for Labour is: Is that how it should be done, that one third of all employment offices throughout the country should be closed down?
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-295	Mr President, I would like to We face major challenges to modernise and change the Swedish Public Employment Service and its way of working. There are probably many who can testify that several of the procedures at Arbetsförmedlingen have been a bit old-fashioned. You have to physically report to report. It has sometimes been difficult to find a good way to make an appointment. These are things that other authorities manage easily via the network or through other modern and more efficient roads. I welcome the fact that the Employment Service is now in the process of modernising and improving efficiency in order to make better use of the tax resources available to provide services to citizens. However, we will also need employment services in the future, and it is a delicate task to ensure that they are in the right places and are properly staffed. This responsibility lies naturally with the authority to clarify, in dialogue with the municipalities in particular, which offices should exist and how they should be staffed.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-298	Mr President, I would like to I agree with the Minister for Employment's statement that the Employment Service must be modernised so that it can work in a different way. But it will be a very strange signal to much of the country. There is a urban and rural perspective here. It is the offices in the small towns that now have to close down while the offices in Stockholm – where the possibility of changing the structure might have been greater – may still be there. A year ago, there was a major debate linked to the Swedish Tax Agency, the Swedish Public Employment Service and the individual actions of other authorities. At that time, this government gave a commission to Statskontoret to review how to ensure that it does not affect parts of the country when closing down local offices. Then it feels a little strange when you get the message from the Director General that Arbetsförmedlingen is right now at a stage where you will close down 80-100 offices while the government has set up an investigation to review what the closure of government activities will have for consequences and what guidelines to have. It would have been reasonable to wait for that inquiry, which will come in the spring, before carrying out this type of major change.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-302	Mr President, I would like to As Annika Qarlsson says, it is extremely important that government activities do not disappear in large parts of the country or from smaller towns. It can have devastating consequences and consequential effects. It is important to weigh it in when you see where the state should be present, for example in the form of an office for Arbetsförmedlingen. I can assure Annika Qarlsson that there is a restructuring and closure of offices also in the Stockholm area. That is how it has to be done, that you make a test of where you get the most out of the business. I am concerned about the pace of change in the Employment Service. It would have to be even higher than it is. The Public Employment Service would need to have the ability to change reality even more quickly. We are now seeing how the labour market situation, and not least the work on the start-up assignment, is changing very quickly. This requires an organisation that is a bit more fast-footed than the Public Employment Service has had so far. It is therefore important to be able to close and open offices and to be present in other ways in order to provide a fuller and better service to all citizens throughout the country.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-308	Mr President, I would like to I would like to turn to Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson. Many of Sweden's municipalities are making fantastic efforts to receive all the people who flee from war and oppression and make their way to our country. Not least in the part of Sweden that I come from, this is particularly clear. At the same time, it means an enormous effort for municipalities to deal with the situation. On the one hand, one should deal with the emerging refugee situation, which has been particularly strained during the summer and autumn. On the other hand, municipalities must also take care of their basic welfare mission so that they can deliver high-quality care for the elderly, school and education.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-312	Mr President, I would like to I thank Niklas Karlsson for the question. He raises a very important subject, and I share Niklas Karlsson's view that it is a fantastic work that is taking place around Sweden's municipalities and county councils to address the current situation where a large number of people are seeking asylum in Sweden. We know that this is a strained situation in many municipalities and county councils. Great efforts are being made in schools, in social services at health centres and other things. In the same way, important work is also being done in civil society. The budget on Parliament's table includes a series of initiatives on municipalities that will facilitate work next year. Among other things, the compensation for municipalities receiving asylum seekers children is increased in their schools. The compensation for the municipalities receiving new arrivals will also be increased. In addition, the important extra amending budget that we presented last week means a direct contribution to the municipalities that they can use this year and also next year.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-316	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister of Finance. It is, of course, important to deal with the situation that we are in right now. At the same time, this is a challenge that does not exist just at the moment, but we will have this challenge before us for many years. Then it is also a question of giving people the opportunity to establish themselves in society and give them the ability to support themselves. It is therefore important that the state monitors developments very closely and is prepared to take further measures to support the municipalities in their work. How does the Minister of Finance view this?
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-318	Mr President, I would like to It is important to monitor the development and workload of both municipalities and county councils in the future. It is also important to follow the situation of our authorities. Of course, priority will have to be given to public finances, because this will affect them; I want to be clear about that. I think it is important in this work to prioritise our important welfare activities such as school, care and health care. We know that these activities are crucial to the well-being and security that people feel in Sweden. The good thing about the money that was set aside last week is that you can use it both this year and next year. They are also targeted specifically at those municipalities that have now received many asylum seekers and new arrivals that may impose particular pressures. With this additional contribution, these municipalities will have greater opportunities to cope with the very important task that they are now facing.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-321	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Ylva Johansson. The Minister for Labour has promised that all new arrivals will be in employment or education within two years. It is a very ambitious, but hardly credible, objective that the government has set itself. We now see that there are a record number of people coming to Sweden. The other day we read in the newspaper that unemployment among foreign born children is increasing rapidly and has almost doubled since 2008. According to Arbetsförmedlingen's statistics, unemployment is now five times as high for foreign born as for domestic ones. It's an unfortunate gulf that's just growing. The Minister for Labour commented on this in the article. She said then that labour market policy must be adapted to the accelerating change in reality, and I very much agree with that. But then Ylva Johansson mentioned that trainee jobs for young people could also be offered to new arrivals. Since so far we have not seen so many trainee jobs for young people, I would like to ask the Minister: What has happened to the trainee jobs? Is it such a successful reform that it should be transferred to new arrivals?
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-326	Mr President, I would like to We are now in a situation where Swedish society is under great pressure. We need to recruit a great many trained people in important areas of welfare. Even before the refugee crisis, we had a great need for new recruitment of, for example, nurses in the care of the elderly. The situation that has now taken place has not diminished that need, I can say. In this situation, it is important to use labour market policies so that the unemployed can get into permanent work but also so that we can at the same time meet important welfare challenges. Trainee jobs are a construction that has the good effect of equipping the unemployed not only to enter the labour market but also to remain there and be able to contribute well in important occupations so that we can manage an orderly generation change. The trainee job agreements were concluded last week between employers and unions. I now expect more trainee jobs to be put in place, but we also see that unemployment among young people is, fortunately, going down extremely quickly.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-328	Mr President, I would like to I agree with much of what the Minister for Employment says. But we heard here earlier that the pressure is very hard on our municipalities. To then also take on a group that has problems with the Swedish language and whose education we have not had time to validate is a huge challenge. I'm a little worried about putting additional burdens on the municipalities through these trainee jobs. I am thinking a little bit about how the Minister for Labour intends to resolve this. As I said, we have not seen so many jobs so far. What does the Minister for Employment think of this?
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-329	Mr President, I would like to Since the agreement between the parties that regulates trainee jobs was completed last week, it is not surprising that not so many people are employed in trainee jobs yet. It's going to increase. At the same time, however, youth unemployment is now falling extremely rapidly. There has been a decrease of 3 percentage points over the past year, and the trend continues downwards. Of course it's very positive. There are fewer unemployed young people who could be interested in a trainee job. At the same time, we are seeing an increase in the number of new arrivals who might be fit to be equipped for work in the care of the elderly. I think it is a bit unfortunate that, as Katarina Brännström does, it is a burden for municipalities to receive state aid and state aid to finance the generational change that is a huge challenge for municipalities to cope with their basic welfare mission, just as Niklas Karlsson said here earlier. I can assure the Members of this House that before making proposals on trainee jobs we in the government had a very close dialogue with the municipalities, which is behind the design of the effort today.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-332	Mr President, I would like to Autumn has been marked by the fact that people who have fled their countries have come to our country to a much greater extent. Historically, Sweden has been very successful in both receiving refugees and at the same time greatly expanding our common welfare. For example, in the 1950s, when we expanded health insurance. There were many from Un gern, and there were nice children here. We did it in the 70's, when we fixed the parental insurance and expanded preschool, fritis and more while receiving refugees from Chile, South America and Iran. Today, we are in a situation where we need to repair and expand welfare to offer housing and work to everyone who lives here and to increase staffing in healthcare, for example. At the same time, many new arrivals who must be allowed to apply for asylum here but who are also one of the keys for us to meet the challenge of building the next floor of our welfare. This requires substantial financial effort and funding that lasts. I would therefore like to ask Minister of Finance, Magdalena Andersson, how the revenue side can be strengthened in order to fulfil this important historic task.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-335	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for a very urgent question. As people applying for asylum in Sweden receive a residence permit and then also start working, of course, the revenue side is also strengthened. This is about us putting in all kinds of measures, turning every stone around, being pragmatic and discussing with each other. How will more of the people who are now seeking to come to Sweden quickly be able to get to work, partly for their own sake, and partly for their opportunity to contribute to Swedish welfare?
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-336	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for that answer. Putting people to work is certainly one of the most important measures. But the money to expand welfare, which we need to do here and now, is needed much faster. The stakes need to get started. On the financing side, we also have fiscal policy. My question to the Minister for Finance is what increased funding we can think of in the area of tax policy.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-338	Mr President, I would like to Yes, in the short term, of course, we need to face an increase in costs. That is the case, and there is no turning a blind eye. In the coming years, this will increase the burden on public finances. We can face this in different ways, for example with the supplementary amending budget that we put on Parliament's table last week and which is supported by a very broad political majority. There we have borrowed for the additional resources that the municipalities receive. This is, of course, one way that we will use to finance the increased cost in the near future: to increase public deficits and to borrow some of it. The second thing we work with in the government is to save – to try to reduce costs or dampen rising cost development in different areas. One such area is migration policy itself, where, for example, with a different type of housing for unaccompanied refugee children, we more than halve the daily cost. In addition, there are plans from the government to increase taxation. For example, we have an investigation looking at the possibility of introducing bank tax.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-343	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to the Minister for Finance. I wonder how she and the government view the collaborative economy, which is now emerging. It is the part of the economy where you can easily share and make up how to pay for what you share via digital platforms. That's smart in a lot of ways. It is economically smart to use our resources more efficiently, and it is also very smart environmentally. The signal I have heard so far from the government is that there are far more problems than opportunities with the collaborative economy. We have the example of the company Uber, which both drives taxis and arranges carpooling. The government investigators have said that it may be that Uber will be banned. How does the government really view the opportunity that I believe exists in the collaborative economy?
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-346	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mathias Sundin for an exciting and important question. I think it can be seen that the collaborative economy is about us using our resources more efficiently. The sharing economy can be a way of increasing productivity and increasing efficiency, often in the stock of capital that already exists, by sharing and thus increasing the use of resources in areas such as housing or something else that you share with others. Of course, there is something that can make a positive contribution to economic development. At the same time, it is important to have effective taxation, as in all other areas. Of course, it also needs to apply to the collaborative economy. I think we agree, Mathias Sundin and I, that it is important that we ensure a good tax collection, so that we can finance our common welfare. I believe that we need to work more on how to ensure a good and effective tax collection even in an economy that will be more divided.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-349	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. Digitalisation, which is part of the collaborative economy, will affect our society and is already doing so. This applies to all areas of society. In many cases there are very extensive changes. Among other things, I think there can be a lot of new jobs. Some of those jobs will be quite simple and also easier to get, making it easier for many to enter the labour market. But when such major changes occur, there is often a struggle between conservative forces, on the one hand, who want to preserve what exists and stop development and, on the other hand, more liberal forces who think that this is a good thing that can contribute positively to our society. There were some positive words from the Finance Minister here, but in the action so far there has been most focus on regulating and squeezing the companies that are emerging. Will the government ensure that Sweden seizes the great opportunity of the collaborative economy?
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-352	Mr President, I would like to There is no reason why Sweden should not be at the forefront of the collaborative economy. We are at the forefront of technological development and have a high level of technical competence in the population. Here I see potential. At the same time, of course, it is important that the laws and rules of the old economy also apply to the new economy. We cannot allow it to develop a new economy where you do not have laws and regulations – labour protection rules, employment protection and other things that apply and are important for us to have order and order in the Swedish labour market. It is also extremely important in a sharing economy that we can secure a functioning tax collection so that we can finance our common welfare in the long term. In both areas we will have to work more. It is important that we can support this development. It's not about holding back developments. It's about us having order in that part of the economy.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-357	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask Mr Ylva Johansson a question. It is a Member who has already asked a question about youth unemployment. I have prepared my question, so I ask the question anyway. Reducing youth unemployment is one of the government's top priority labour market challenges. In recent months it has been quite quiet about youth unemployment. At the same time, it has been said in the media that trainee jobs did not get the response that was expected.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-360	Mr President, I would like to It is true that the discussion on youth unemployment has not been as lively. That's because it's sinking. Youth unemployment has fallen steadily over the past year. The figures that came today represent a decrease of just over 3 percentage points compared to a year ago. When it was at its worst during the old government, we were in a youth unemployment rate of up to 25 per cent. We even received EU support to combat youth unemployment. Now we're seasonally down to less than 20%. It is still a very high level. But developments are moving strongly in the right direction. In such a situation, when more and more young people get jobs on the regular labour market, it is necessary to reconsider the amount of resources to spend on labour market policies for that group and how much needs to be spent on other groups. I continue to see that young people who do not have upper secondary skills or some young people with other difficulties need special efforts and assistance to get into the labour market. It is therefore gratifying that all of Sweden's municipalities except four have chosen to join together with the state to resolve this.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-364	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much for your reply, Minister. I am very pleased that youth unemployment is going down. It is also important that trainee jobs start as soon as possible so that young people who are currently outside the labour market have the opportunity to enter and establish themselves in the labour market.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-365	Mr President, I would like to I fully share the view on the importance of good trainee jobs. It's about an orderly generational shift. Needs are enormous in the care of the elderly. If we are to achieve good quality in such an important area of welfare as care for the elderly, we need not only resources but also trained staff who can do a good job. It requires that we can make smart solutions that combine education and work. We are currently seeing a rather strong boost in the Swedish economy. As a result, demand and thus the shortage in many professions are growing in many areas. There is a shortage of sheet metal workers, car mechanics, crane drivers and electricians. We see several areas where the combination of education and work as trainee jobs will be an important part of solving the functioning of the labour market. It is about ensuring that the unemployed not only enter the labour market but remain there. I'm not worried that there have been very few trainee jobs so far. In the most important area of agreement, between SKL and Kommunal, the agreement was completed last week. I can see that we are going to have a positive development.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-369	Mr President, I would like to I would like to address my question to the Minister for Justice. We live in a troubled time. This has caused many refugees, and many turn to Sweden. Exactly a week ago, border control was introduced under pressure from the Blan d other Christian Democrats. This is an important way to get better control on who comes to Sweden. Several of the ministers have clearly stated that it is tempting the police. It needs relief and help. It has sometimes been mentioned that you should bring in help from the Swedish Armed Forces, and you can have guardians. I would like to ask a specific question. We used to have the emergency services for 25 years. It made important efforts after 11 September in Sweden when the alert was raised, and in connection with the storm Gudrun it made important contributions. My specific question is whether the government is willing to reintroduce the emergency services.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-374	Mr President, I would like to I think we all know what the situation is now for the police. It is about being able to deal with the migration situation we have with border controls and then what has happened since the Paris attacks last Friday with the increased level of security. The police are now doing an amazing job trying to clear both of these parts. The police should feel the full support of the government. But I also believe that it feels the Swedish people's full support for the work it is doing now. Police matters are handled by Minister of Interior Anders Ygeman. I know that he, along with the police department, is now trying to find different ways to make discharges in different ways. Emergency police were shut down by the old government a few years ago. There were reasons for that. I do not really know how the process of police management and the Minister for Home Affairs has gone about this.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-376	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. Emergency police were shut down, and you can regret that. It is important as a politician and not least as a government to respond to the current situation. We're seeing a situation where we need reinforcements. There were 1,500 people on standby. The association's still here. I think I know that there is a register where at least half of these are available. After maybe a week's course, they could be useful again. I'm not saying it's the only way. You can also imagine being able to use those who attend the police school. It is important to look at what opportunities there are. I think there's a need for emergency police. We can also see for the future that resources will be needed for the system.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-379	Mr President, I would like to The police questions lie with the Minister for Home Affairs. I remember very well the discussion when the old bourgeois government shut down the emergency services. There were really two arguments. One was that it was not used in practice. The second was that the level of education of those who were security officers was so low that if one were to put it in different types of situations one could very easily end up in different risk situations. I see it now, too. For example, if we were to deploy the emergency police at border controls, it should be remembered that we have an increased security situation. We need to know that those who carry out these tasks have an adequate level of competence. There is a dialogue between the government and the police leadership on how to solve the longer-term problems with police issues in the light of the situation we have at the moment. I will not go ahead with the events in the hands of another minister.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-383	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson. It is high time that the Minister for Labour respected Parliament's decisions. There have been two announcements about a review of the Employment Service. That would be the biggest review in 20 years. There are major challenges when it comes to Public Employment Services with low trust. We have to change that. Nothing has happened in this area. We have testified that proposals have been put on the table and withdrawn. It's troubling. The action of the Minister and the Government is unacceptable. There are two announcements. I wonder when the Minister intends to follow practices, laws and rules and the announcements made by Parliament?
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-386	Mr President, I would like to Let me first make two reflections. Unfortunately, I do not believe that the Public Employment Service is one of the authorities with the lowest level of public confidence. I believe that concrete changes are needed that people are experiencing in real life. It is employers and jobseekers who have to meet an authority that can provide a different type of service than the Public Employment Service has been able to during the past years under the old government. The second is that it is not true that nothing happens. On the contrary, much has happened in Arbetsförmedlingen. It was one of the most important and first issues addressed by this government. Although we have had to live with a bourgeois budget for some time, we have not lived with a bourgeois labour market policy. It was changed from the first day, and we also see the results of it in falling unemployment. It is about the fact that the Public Employment Service has now been radically liberalised and changed, and it is changing and modernising its working methods. Mr President, I would like to The Government will set up a review and a report on the Public Employment Service.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-389	Mr President, I would like to Two announcements, and the Minister is now saying here in the speaker's chair that a review should be made. The Minister has said this as recently as in Almedalen this summer. Even so, nothing has happened. In the next answer, perhaps we can get a timetable or a timeline to relate to so that we can follow this more closely. There have therefore been two announcements, and we have heard statements from the Minister in the past. But, as I said, nothing has happened. It is true that things have been done at Arbetsförmedlingen. I assume so, because the labour market is constantly changing. Then the Employment Service must also be in constant change if it is to convey jobs. I think it is important that this work is going on. On the other hand, there has been no major review of the Employment Service over a long period of time. And that, Mr President, needs to be done.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-392	Mr President, I would like to I've already answered the question. There was an announcement from the Riksdag just before the summer, despite the government's response to the previous announcement, that it wants a broad review of the Employment Service. It's gonna be one of those. The government is working on the directives.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-393	Mr President, I would like to I do not think I need to tell the Minister of Justice about all the countries that have introduced and actively apply a law that allows terrorists to be deprived of their citizenship. France, in particular, recently announced that this legislation should be reworked so that more terrorists can be included and thus expelled from France. For a little more than a year, the Swedish Democrats proposed that terrorists with dual citizenship should be deprived of their Swedish citizenship and thus expelled for life from Sweden. Can the Minister of Justice only explain the added value to our society when you have chosen another path where you want to keep these immigrant terrorists in Sweden and allow them to enjoy our freedom and our welfare through their Swedish citizenship? Let me be clear: I am not asking what the government has done otherwise, but specifically why you have chosen not to deprive terrorists of their Swedish citizenship, as many other European countries have done.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-396	Mr President, I would like to Citizenship is important, both as a symbol and practical for us. That is why it is extremely important when granting citizenship that a proper test be carried out to ensure that the person who is granted citizenship can also meet the requirements and obligations that this entails. It is not appropriate for us to withdraw citizenship as a result of crimes that have been committed. Firstly, there is no way for us to do so if we do not have any other citizenship. We must not make people stateless, even though I have actually seen in the Swedish Democrats' proposal that you even want to do so. You want to make people stateless, which would mean that we would violate a wide range of international conventions. We will not tire out in our work to combat terrorism, but we will not go the way of withdrawing citizenship. If we have granted it once, that is what applies.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-399	Mr President, I would like to To be honest, I did not ask the question with an expectation of being impressed. Fortunately, therefore, I am not disappointed by the Minister of Justice's answer to the question. But the disappointment is, of course, that on this issue too, we can see that our red-green government has far too well protected its significance to always do too little and always too late.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-400	Mr President, I would like to It is difficult to find any government that has spent more time on these issues than we have. And we have done so not only since we took office but also during the opposition period. Perhaps the memory boy remembers the situation in 2010 when we had a suicide bomber on Drottninggatan. Then I myself raised the question of whether we could not extend the possibility of monitoring and signal reconnaissance and give Säpo those opportunities. After a while we managed to reach an agreement with the bourgeois government on this very thing. Today, I think that the vast majority are quite grateful that we have this kind of opportunity to obtain information in order, among other things, to monitor, track and thus combat terrorism. For your Swedish democrats, on the other hand, it is not about terrorism. For you, it is only about combating immigration and immigrants. That is the policy that you care about.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-404	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister for Gender Equality Åsa Regnér. Just now, two important decisions have been made here in the Swedish Parliament, which is driving the work on gender equality. This is about the change in parental insurance with another reserved month, among other things. Hopefully, women and men will share more equally the responsibility of their common children. Yesterday we decided that the municipal custody allowance, which is considered by many to be a female trap, should be removed. How does the Minister for Gender Equality think it will affect the labour market for women and men, and how will it affect women's and men's opportunities at large, the Minister believes?
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-406	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. The fact that parents share parental insurance more equally is a crucial issue. Anything that promotes children's access to both their parents, that both women and men can work on equal terms and that equal sharing of unpaid work promotes equality. As a result, there will eventually be less differences in pensions and so on. These are life-cycle issues, and this is important for gender equality. I never understood the care allowance. Thus, adults who are fully able to work are paid to stay away from the labour market. We knew from several evaluations that it was women, especially with low incomes and often with foreign background, who made use of this opportunity. I am therefore pleased that these decisions were taken. We now have many opportunities in the future to discuss a future gender equality policy because we have received several studies on this issue and can proceed with progressive proposals.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-409	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for Equality for his answer. That was an answer that I share with the Minister for Gender Equality; these are important questions for women. It is both about having opportunities for self-support and about what we often forget – the children's important part in getting good role models from both their mothers and their fathers. But it is above all a question of women's ability to support themselves and not constantly depend on another half. We know love comes and goes, and sometimes you suddenly stand alone. You may have a man who beats you and you have a need to leave. Here it is a huge profit especially for women that you can influence in this way. There have been many investigations, and they have shown that this has been a need. Will there be further proposals, such as pay surveys and a little more?
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-412	Mr President, I would like to As I said, I have received a total of four investigations – there have been some in preparation since I took office – in the field of gender equality. The last, the major investigation into the whole of gender equality policy, came just a few weeks ago. It points out that it is important to continue promoting women's participation in the labour market as well as men's – but this is rarely called into question. It is important to continue to work on violence against women and to focus in particular on the fact that we have few measures to prevent violence against women. I would like to move on to this with a number of strong proposals, and we have already taken a number of such decisions. We will invite in various ways to talks on future labour market policies, which will be aimed at promoting a high level of labour participation on equal terms and at all equal income. It is about preventing violence against women and increasing equal representation, participation and a voice in society. It is a matter of course for a feminist government.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-414	Mr President, I would like to I would like to address my question to Mr Per Bolund. About half a million people are over-indebted in Sweden. This means that they have debts that they find difficult to pay. Many end up in debt because of accidents in life. It can be divorce, death, unemployment, illness and so on. Many of these people have paid off their debts many times if– it's the interest they pay, and many never come down to paying the debt itself. What is serious is that these people are often ill, and the suicide rate is high. It also represents a major socio-economic loss and is a major cost to society both human and economic. The cost is between 30 and 50 billion every year because these people can't come back.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-417	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Hillevi Larsson, for an important question! I am pleased that Hillevi Larsson highlights the perspective that it is not really, as you sometimes get the picture of in the debate, negligence and that you have mismanaged your economy that has led you into debt. Often, personal tragedies are at the root of them. It may be a company that has gone bankrupt that is transferred to a personal debt, divorce, family illness or the like. That is why society has a responsibility to help people who have ended up in this situation that is both individually difficult and also harmful to society. The government has developed a strategy against over-indebtedness in the latest budget, which is now on the table of the Riksdag. It means, on the one hand, preventive work to provide knowledge and information that allows you to avoid the problems and get help when you start to fall into debt, and, on the other hand, to offer debt restructuring to all those who could actually be helped to get out of debt quickly and contribute and be part of the economy in the normal way. This is an important area that the government has prioritised.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-419	Mr President, I would like to I am very pleased that the government is working both preventively and to help those who have fallen into over-indebtedness. I believe that the most important work is prevention, because there are so many tragedies once one has been over-indebted. It is important to help those who are over-indebted, for we have about 90 000 eternity elders, as it is said. This means that you have been over-indebted for over 20 years and lived at the minimum of existence. A lot of these people have children, and they are hard hit. Getting help with debt restructuring is worth gold. We know today that there are many people who should get debt adjustment but do not. That's why I think you can help a lot of people this way. I am grateful for this and would like to emphasise that it is about helping people but also about improving the whole of society and our economy.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-422	Mr President, I would like to I think it is important with the perspective that many people have been sitting for far too long with this type of debt that creates really big problems economically, socially and healthly. The government is working on several different measures. On the one hand, we have proposed in the budget that we should scale up the resources of the Swedish Enforcement Authority to work on debt restructuring. It is a question of having the resources to help all those people who could get debt restructuring, but also of having outreach and catching up with those who do not themselves know that they could be helped this way. Then we also have a work going on where we review the debt restructuring law to broaden the perspective and give even more people access to this important instrument. In this way we could, I hope, graze quite quickly by this large group of people who have been stuck for too long in the problems of over-indebtedness. It is time to take a firm stance on this issue.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-425	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for the Minister for Migration. The whole legitimacy of the right to asylum is based on the fact that a yes is a yes and a no is a no. Anyone who has received a refusal decision should simply leave the country. Of course, this is always important, but I would say that it is particularly important in the exceptional situation that we have right now with the very high search pressure that prevails in Sweden. At the same time, it is now appallingly few of the rejection decisions that can actually be implemented. Only 12% of the cases that have been handed over to the police by the Finnish Immigration Service have been carried out this year. It is therefore 1 000 out of a total of 9 000 cases. There may be various reasons for this. The person may have deviated, there may be incorrect information about the person, there may be a lack of necessary travel documents etc. On 3 October this year, the Minister of Migration stated that there are 6 000 people with final rejection decisions who still live in the Migration Agency's accommodations. What about that work? How many have left the country?
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-428	Mr President, I would like to Just as Johan Forssell says, it is important for the legitimacy of the system that a decision taken actually applies and that it is implemented. I can see that there have been problems with enforcement over a long number of years. In the first half of this year we saw a trend towards an increase. We could therefore see a better effectiveness in terms of enforcement. But what has happened this autumn means, of course, that both the police and the Migration Agency must solve more urgent situations. I think that problem will increase, not least in the light of what the police are allowed to do now. Johan Forssell knows that in the agreement between the government and the bourgeois parties a few weeks ago there was a point about being able to cancel the daily allowance for those who do not leave the residents. We're still working on that.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-431	Mr President, I would like to So I wonder how many of these 6,000 people still live in the Migration Board's accommodations. Is there any information on that? Today, Mr President, we have reached the point that we have long feared when the Migration Agency is no longer able to offer shelter to people seeking asylum in Sweden. The head of the Finnish Immigration Service in southern Sweden describes this as an unorganized chaos. It is good that the government too sees that we have an unsustainable situation. At the same time, the challenge for us as elected representatives is not just to describe reality, but the big challenge for us is actually to manage reality. I would therefore like to ask a supplementary question: what concrete measures here and now sees the Minister for Migration as being able to dampen the search pressure to Sweden?
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-435	Mr President, I would like to If we get the redistributive system going in the EU, it could facilitate the Swedish situation. As Johan Forssell knows, we have gone in with a request to the EU to be part of the redistribution system. That process is ongoing. There are two different approaches to housing. One is about those who have been repudiated and have not left the country. There we will continue with the agreement that we have made, namely to withdraw the daily allowance for those who do not leave the country at that time. It's a way of trying to free up more places. The second way is to ensure that all municipalities take responsibility. There we have just come forward with a legislative proposal that is about being able to impose responsibilities on municipalities. As long as this is another 10,000 seats. I have no up-to-date information on the progress of the 6,000 people whom we drew attention to a few weeks ago.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-438	Mr President, I would like to I turn to Minister Åsa Regnér. We see a major international refugee crisis affecting all European countries, not least Sweden. Sweden is making an enormous contribution. In fact, it is the greatest thing we have ever done in the refugee context. We now see that many children are on the run, and many are on the run without their parents. In recent months, the number of children arriving in Sweden alone and seeking asylum has increased dramatically. This means a great responsibility and a great job for all Swedish municipalities and for the reception system.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-441	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Yasmine Larsson, for the question! It is indeed a matter of great efforts that Sweden is making. I am very proud that Sweden takes a great responsibility for the reception of unaccompanied refugee children. This presents some basic social functions with major problems. Social services are my area, and when the government took office, social services for children and young people were already under strong pressure. There's a lot of evidence for that. That is why we already took action at the time on proposals in the budget of EUR 1 billion for the operation and national introductions requested by the parties. We have already made other proposals. We have proposed a new form of housing, as the Minister of Finance mentioned earlier. It is about support housing, which we think will suit many in that group well. We have also commissioned the National Board of Health and Welfare to review the rules for HVB homes, and we have also commissioned the National Board of Health and Welfare to introduce a support phone. In addition, there are the 10 billion that the Finance Minister referred to earlier, which will largely benefit the municipalities. We have commissioned the State Department Board to develop 1,000 state seats, and we have many more proposals.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-444	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Protecting vulnerable children is perhaps the most important task a society has. I am therefore pleased that a strong effort is being made. The efforts now being made need to be both large and long-term. The actions reported may also need to be complemented by further decisions later.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-446	Mr President, I would like to I share that view. We follow this issue closely, and I am committed to both the sustainability and functioning of social services, as well as to the best interests of children and children's rights. The research that exists in Sweden on unaccompanied refugee children is naturally done on smaller groups than we see today. It shows that when children receive attention and support for studies, they become a study - motivated and purposeful group. They often know what they want and need. I am concerned about the situation in social services and the reception of unaccompanied refugee children right now because it is a strained sector. It is a big task for Swedish society to be the parents of these children who come alone. This is not just about a good reception right now, but also in the long term. It is therefore necessary to continue to take action on this issue.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-449	That concludes today's Question Time. I would like to thank the ministers and the participating Members.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-450	Mr President, I would like to In previous speeches, it has been said that I have said that the defence capabilities were close to zero during the strategic timeout. This applies to the time that preceded before we set the target of intervention organisation in 2014. I think everyone agrees with me that defence capabilities were close to zero during the strategic timeout, which is also heard in the name. In her speech, Lena Asplund said that it is embarrassing to be a Swedish democrat when talking about defence issues. She gives us, for example, that we think it is too little with two brigades in the ground defense. It's our opinion that two brigades are too little. I turn the question back to Lena Asplund : Do the Moderates think that two brigades are enough for the defense of the ground?
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-453	Mr President, I would like to I did not say that it was embarrassing because of the number of brigades or so, but I understood it so that the Swedish Democrats made a blow against our defence and against those who operate in the defence. It's bad. I don't want to say that our ability was close to zero. It wasn't. The defense focused in the spirit of that time on another kind of defense. It was not us in Sweden alone. On the contrary! That is what it looked like around Europe. We lived in a time after the fall of the wall in 1989 where it felt a bit like peace in our time. It was a little flashback to Neville Chamberlain with his peace in our time, although it took a little longer. I would add that during the eight years of the Alliance no regiments were laid down. They were closed down from the 80s onwards until the beginning of the 21st century by Social Democratic governments. However, there was a change. Former ÖB said at the Folk och Försvars meeting in January 2015 that Sweden has a small but sharp defence. I think it's good that we have a sharp defense. It's better than having a big, loose defense. I don't think that's a good idea.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-457	Mr President, I would like to It is nice that Lena Asplund wants to paint that the Moderates represent a frivolous peace in our time and that the Swedish Democrats have got Churchill's role to equip in time. Thank you! An invasion defense cannot be too small. It must have a certain volume. Sweden is a large and elongated country. We Swedish democrats want an invasion defense. That's what all parties want. We Swedish democrats have not said that we want an old invasion defence, but we want a modern invasion defence. I do not understand Lena Asplund's criticism. Lena Asplund says that the Moderates do not want an invasion defense but a local defence. I don't even know what a close-up defense is. Is the Brigade format part of the local defense?
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-460	Mr President, I would like to I said the West lived in the spirit of peace in time after the fall of the Wall. It's not something the Moderates can take for themselves. Then I'm a big fan of Churchill. I said the Swedish Democrats want an old invasion defense. That means many men and many foot soldiers. In your exercise you line it up, that and that, that there should be five additional Visby corvettes, that there should be 200 JAS Gripen. That is an enormous amount of money. The important thing is that there is a defence that can operate here and now and what it looks like in the outside world. I find it hard to believe that someone comes across the Baltic Sea and climbs our coasts. We saw how it happened during the annexation of one of the Crimea, and we know what war is like today. It is a little different, and it is important to be equipped for it and not be equipped for what warfare was like during World War II. It feels like the Swedish Democrats want to go back – it was a little better before. That's my interpretation. We Moderates stand together with the Center Party, the Christian Democrats and the government behind the defense settlement. It's a good one, and we've said so. It's a start. I am convinced that there will be no less unrest in our neighbourhood, and I am sure that there will be more to it. Let's see what it looks like around here. Right now this is a start, and it's a trend break. It's turning. That's what all defense-sensors say. Now it's starting to go up. For the first time since the '40s it is increasing.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-465	Mr President, I would like to I was going to say something about environmental testing of shooting and practice fields. In the draft for the defence, adopted by the Riksdag, it is stated that the exercise activities will be intensified and strengthened. That's good. This requires an increased use of shooting and practice fields. Based on this, there has been exercise on the impact of environmental testing on the use and availability of such fields. In the Environmental Code there is an established order for how environmental testing related to, for example, the Swedish Armed Forces should be carried out. The County Administrative Board's environmental review delegation is a first instance, and an appeal can be lodged with the Land and Environment Court, which in that case has to submit the case with its own opinion to the Government for review. The requirements of the Environmental Code require a comprehensive assessment of all the different environmental and health effects that there is a risk of an operation. Such a test is necessary if we are to maintain the protection of the environment and health. In the environmental review, all the authorities concerned are given the opportunity to contribute their views. The investigating authority then weighs the facts of the case together and ultimately takes its decision. Mr President, I would like to At present, there are a number of cases in which it is appropriate to impose such a permit under the Environmental Code which has been handed over to the Government. But the common denominator for most of these matters is that they were handed over to the bourgeois government. There are questions that have been waiting for eight years. I therefore see that the current government is working well to develop its work on dealing with these issues. It can also be noted that this government, alongside the pure defence policy, is working with and is investing in strengthening the county administrative board's work on environmental issues and this type of permit, which hopefully affects the permit granting for environmental testing of shooting fields and training fields. To my knowledge, the opposition rejects these budgetary efforts, which would delay the decision. Mr President, I would like to I would also like to take this opportunity to say something about the proposal that the foreign force should have a small amount of money available to help the local population in the areas where Sweden operates. This idea may seem, in the first place, sympathetic, but I would say that it is fundamentally problematic. It is important not to confuse military and civilian operations, although of course they should be synchronised and coordinated. There are plenty of examples of civil intervention actually being compromised by the fact that the civilian population to be helped has misunderstood them as part of a military operation. There are examples of this in Afghanistan in particular. The Swedish Afghanistan Committee has stated on several occasions that it has been able to make an excellent contribution in the past by working through local activities. One has been able to fly under the radar and was not perceived as part of a military effort. However, the Committee's efforts have deteriorated or been jeopardised when other military operations have come close and there has been a risk of confusion. That is why I think it is wise for the House to vote against this type of proposal and to maintain the current order. Mr President, I would like to In the debate, the issue of the Swedish Defence Export Agency was also raised. This government has announced the strengthening of arms export legislation, not least in relation to exports to non-democrats. Sweden should not be involved in arming dictatorships. We shall not sell arms to states when there is a risk that they will use these weapons against their neighbours or against their locals. As part of this broader work on defence exports, the government is also dismantling the Swedish Defence Export Agency, which has a special task precisely to promote arms exports. However, it should be pointed out that several parts of this data will be transferred to other authorities in order to safeguard transparency and scrutiny of exports.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-478	Mr President, I would like to The recent serious attacks and events testify to the serious deterioration in the security situation in our immediate neighbourhood. It's a more troubled time. We must take all the threats seriously and take the necessary measures, both civilian and military, that are necessary. With this summer's defence policy orientation decisions for the years 2016 – 2020, additional money was added to the defence, a necessary reinforcement that will strengthen our defence capabilities. We have a broad cross-block agreement – an important basis for building our defence. The Center Party has actively contributed to this agreement, which will strengthen the resources of the defence in the coming years. But we see that more is likely to be needed. Of course, it affects us in Sweden and our immediate environment when our Baltic neighbours feel increasingly vulnerable and the military activity in the Baltic Sea continues to increase. The Center Party wants the defence to exist throughout the country and that the defence should be trained to be able to act in all weather conditions and climates that exist in our country but also in the places where we participate and make international efforts. Political stability, constructive leadership and broad-based decision give the Swedish Armed Forces clear assignments and financial predictability that it can plan and dimension the operations from outside. The planning of the total defense will now be resumed. It is urgent that this be as concrete and as soon as possible, because the security situation is continuing to change. Civil – military cooperation covers the whole of society and must develop methods and ways of working that meet today's and tomorrow's threats, vulnerability and challenges. Sweden needs perseverance and a strong total defence, where NGOs and the Home Guard are also of great importance. A credible defence is a crucial prerequisite for pursuing and asserting a credible security policy. In order to prevent attacks on Sweden and Sweden's integrity, the Swedish Armed Forces must establish and maintain a military threshold effect. Our defenses shall be available. War units must be more humanely met, material needs must be met and investments must be made in accordance with agreed plans and orders. The Swedish Armed Forces, in close cooperation with other states, will conduct exercises and operations in Sweden and in Sweden's neighbourhood and participate in efforts that need to be made in other parts of the world. We must safeguard our sovereignty and our rights, interests and fundamental values and protect Swedish freedom of action in the face of political, military or other pressures. Our security, Mr President, is built in solidarity with others. To meet the security policy challenges, we need to continue to strengthen our defence capabilities throughout the country. We also need to start a process towards Swedish membership of NATO. We will show our solidarity with our Nordic and Baltic neighbours. In the process of Swedish NATO membership, we believe that Sweden should strive for close cooperation with Finland. This helps to develop our military cooperation in the Nordic region and the Baltic Sea region. Not least, it stabilizes our immediate vicinity. Sweden, through its membership of the European Union, takes joint and several responsibility for Europe's security and for the EU's ability to promote peaceful and democratic development in the world around us. Now this mutual declaration and our bilateral cooperation with France are being tested, where Sweden will assist France with help. This is something we must continue to follow in the near future and also to test from our abilities. The fact that the focus of the decision has been on increased practice activities is very important. This year we can see that each unit is increasing its training activities, and it is planned for war unit exercises for the coming focus period. This is extremely important for strengthening the military's capabilities. It also gives a more comprehensive picture of our coordinated ability. We are talking about practicing with air forces, naval forces and in the army. We also need to practice to continue to strengthen our ability to assert our airspace and develop our maritime surveillance. On the table today are two important proposals for announcements from the Riksdag to the Government. The defense must have access to training and shooting fields with different natures and terrain conditions in different parts of our country so that our units can be trained, trained and trained in different climate conditions. Prolonged processing times for environmental testing seriously hamper the Swedish Armed Forces' ability to develop the exercise activities. The government must therefore now and in future review the decision-making processes for environmental testing so that we get closer to a situation where we have updates and the necessary decisions for permits so that the exercises can be carried out. Today, many shooting fields lack these permits, and that must be a priority. From a military strategic point of view and with developments in the Baltic Sea region, Gotland has a very important strategic position. It is important that we have control of the sea and airways to and from the Baltic States. It is important that we have increased military presence on Gotland. It stabilises the situation in the Baltic Sea region. I would therefore like to emphasise the value of Parliament announcing that access to long-range control systems should be a priority issue for the next parliamentary term. Our ability depends entirely on having the necessary human resources and modern equipment capable of meeting enemy capabilities, and they are evolving today. The Parliament's decision to focus from June allows for more investments in important and necessary materials. Threats, propaganda and misleading maneuvers are becoming increasingly common. We must have a long-term, conscious and thorough strategy that meets pressure campaigns and hybrid warfare. It requires increased knowledge and awareness in our country, in our population. In our entire area of government, we need to work on these issues. A critical approach and an increased level of knowledge help to strengthen our overall defence capabilities but also increases our preparedness for how to handle hybrid warfare and propaganda. Intelligence is also central. Sweden must be able to actively carry out operations in the cyber environment. We are dependent on a good defence intelligence capability, and the security policy situation requires that we be able to obtain, process, analyse and share defence intelligence.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-501	Mr President, I would like to Daniel Bäckström happened to get into the NATO issue, and although this is not the main theme of the debate, it is difficult not to comment on it. It is rare in the debate to hear the counter-arguments, and I would therefore like to take this opportunity to ask Mr Daniel a few questions. As I see it, NATO membership does not increase our security. Instead, it increases the tension in our neighborhood. It helps the Putin regime with the external enemy that an increasingly crowded and authoritarian regime needs and demands. In practice, it pushes us under a nuclear umbrella. This makes us brothers in arms with a country that is bombing its own population, Turkey, and it reduces our opportunity to be our own voice in the world, arguing and working for peace and relaxation. These are the facts that should perhaps be raised when discussing ever closer cooperation with NATO, through host country agreements and other things, but also when discussing membership. NATO is not an organisation that has been very successful in recent years with regard to the operations in Iraq and Libya; the fighting in Iraq may not have taken place formally under the NATO flag, but with NATO support. And, not least, there is Afghanistan, which is not exactly an example of success. I therefore wonder how the sudden hope of the Centre Party on board the NATO train is justified by the aspects I have raised here.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-504	Mr President, I would like to This is an extremely important issue which, for the Center Party, has matured over time. We have had numerous security policy debates and discussions, also on the basis of what it looked like earlier during the Cold War and during the changes of the 1990s in our neighbourhood. In recent years, we have been impressed by the changes that have taken place in the field of security policy and have seen an increasingly deteriorating situation. The starting point for us is that when the borders in Europe have been moved and when most of our cooperation is based on the fact that we are already working with NATO, Sweden could actively contribute to strengthening security work. In a NATO cooperation, we could also work with peace activities with a united Nordic voice. We would like Sweden and Finland to join forces here. With several countries in Eastern Europe being part of NATO, we see it as natural that Sweden works with them to strengthen cooperation and support the work that is taking place in the Baltics and Poland. We do not believe that this will lead to increased tensions, but rather will contribute to stability and clarity in which we openly state our current position. We are working very close to NATO today. What is really missing is membership. Otherwise, we are very close to NATO. Something needs to happen immediately. We need to continue to highlight these issues, because it is important for our future military development. It is partly about having a strong focus on how we develop the Swedish defence, partly about how we can contribute to a more stable Europe but also to a stronger cooperation where we can influence with the opportunities that membership entails.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-508	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by saying that I have great respect for the clarity shown by the alliance parties on this issue. This means that it can be debated in a slightly different way than when the NATO issue is about us being included in practice in the systems while at the same time saying that we should not become members. It is good that it is made clear. I respect that. However, my questions remain. In what way would NATO membership reduce the level of tension in the Baltic Sea region, our most important neighbourhood in this case? How would it weaken the authoritarian tendencies of the Putin regime? In what way would the nuclear umbrella under which we would actually drift help and improve our security when we become a more legitimate nuclear target? In what way should we be brothers in arms with Turkey, who are bombing their own people, and acting together with them in a defence alliance? In what way does our opportunity to be a voice in the world for peace, relaxation and disarmament increase? All these questions remain. In addition, in practice, the defence-oriented decision amounts to just over EUR 2 billion per year, but if we are to follow the NATO Statutes, or rather the wishes, then we are not talking about those amounts. Then we'll almost double our defense budget. Sweden has a habit, good or bad can be discussed, to follow the recommendations that our international commitments and membership at various levels require. How does the Center Party intend to finance another $40 billion for the defense, because we're not going to have a free ticket, are we?
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-511	Mr President, I would like to In my home areas in Värmland there is a close connection to Norway. Norway, which has long been a member of NATO, has handled the issue of how to work preventively and with a focus on more peace work. They have managed to combine membership in an alliance with active work within the UN, among others, but also participate independently in various processes that build peace and stability in different parts of the world. There is a lot of inspiration to draw from Norway and how they handle membership. The Center Party also takes note of how Norway has dealt with the issue of nuclear weapons and foreign-stationed troops. For us, it is important to have a Nordic area free of nuclear weapons. This in itself will contribute to stability and de-dramatise the threat picture. With our Swedish capability, we can contribute to strengthening security in our neighbouring countries. The most important issue at the moment is the pressure that is increasing on our Baltic neighbours. We are extremely dependent on having a strong spirit of cooperation around the Baltic Sea. As we are already seen as close to NATO in the Russian perspective, I do not think that this will come as a surprise, nor will it increase the security risk. Rather, it will confirm what many Russian assessors have already seen, namely that in practice Sweden is very close to NATO and that the operational work is very synchronised in the military systems. Therefore, I do not think it will be any surprise, and I do not believe that it will have the negative impact on security policy that is suggested in the issues here. I hope that we can continue this discussion. We need to do so in this House together with the discussion on military capability development, which is also important.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-516	Mr President, I would like to The report we are debating this afternoon is about military issues. As has been pointed out earlier, it is based on the various proposals submitted by the members of the Riksdag during the general period of exercise. I would particularly like to dwell on two motions – one of which I happen to have written myself, and one has been written by Hans Wallmark – which has resulted in approval. It is not often that motions give rise to acquiescence, but they have done so. There was a defence decision before the summer that was very important. It became a trend break. Since the end of the Cold War, we have seen a decrease in appropriations and men. We had an invasion defense where we could produce up to 850 000 men on paper. Now we've got something that's considerably smaller, maybe about 50,000 men. Now I don't think we're going back to the old, but it's this story we have. What was so unique about the deal was that it actually gave more money. It also stressed the importance of practicing. It cannot be overemphasised: the issue of a brass orchestra or a football team must be practiced. This also applies to the defence of a country. It won't work unless it's practiced. The first exercise, which I myself wrote, is about one important thing, namely exercise areas. If the Swedish Armed Forces are to be able to practice for real, you have to have practice areas. In our country, the Kingdom of Sweden, there are 61 training fields. Once upon a time there were many more, but this is what remains. Just under a third of them, 19 of them, are now being dealt with by the government. I think they deserve to be listed. From north to south, they are Lomben, Orrträsk, Kustträsk, Bo dens southern – where, for example, I 19 practices – Härnö, Skärsviken, Roten, Marma – where the middle Swedish units practice – Väddö, Söderarm, Veckholm, Härads, Korsö, Stabbo, Marma, Askö – these are places that are absolutely necessary for the amphibious units and the coastal units to be able to practice – Karlsborg, Tofta and Gothenburg. One could hold an exposition on each of these. They are important to the Armed Forces. But I would like to mention a few places in particular. The first place I want to talk about is Tofta. In the past, the Swedish Armed Forces owned very large areas of land. Today, Tofta is still the land you own. Today, you can use only half the gun field, and that's not even enough for the Home Guard. Curiously, it has been appealed by Region Gotland. Then it has gone to the county administrative board, which has given the thumb down to the region's appeal and thus given the thumb up to the Swedish Armed Forces to have what they are asking for. It then went to the government's own body, the Court of Justice and the Environment, for an opinion. There you also give your thumb down to Region Gotland and your thumb up to the Swedish Armed Forces. However, the Armed Forces have not been able to take over the area. Svenska Dagbladet has checked that the average processing time for such cases is eight years. Then a friend of order says that this is the fault of the bourgeois government. The bourgeois government has certainly not been perfect in this, far from it, but now we have a defence arrangement that places great emphasis on practice. Without practice fields, you can't practice for real. In a defense force, you need equipment, men and exercises. Without exercises, the soldier factory will stop. We already have too many vacancies. Too many soldiers are missing. Then it is serious that this problem exists. Last week the Swedish Radio spoke to Mats Hillerström, who is the captain and exercise leader at Härad's shooting field outside Strängnäs. He pointed out that this limits how his shooting range can be exploited. He said, "You can't strangle any more because then we don't get enough shots and then the exercises end up against the last months of the year because then there's no room to practice anymore." This is something that makes soldiers stop prematurely, and it costs money. The last example I shall take is also something that was mentioned in the recital. It's from my own constituency, specifically from the Command Regiment in Enköping. There you say you have to go to the shooting field further away when the space on your own shooting field is exhausted. "It costs in time when we have to go there and it costs financially because we have many employed soldiers today and they are working time regulated, says Fredrik Wiebe, who is deputy head of the regiment. This is not a peripheral issue that can be seen away from. That is something that needs to be resolved. Now a united committee is behind this, and we are ordering the government to speed up the processes. It might be necessary. Åsa Romson, who is the Minister for the Environment, expressed herself on this issue in Svenska Dagbladet. She said, "We need to speed up. That's good, because Åsa Romson and her department are responsible for the questions. But she also said something a little strange, namely that the Armed Forces should modernise the forms of exercise. She also said that they need to be better adapted to the local community. Romson's statement is quite significant: a country can be war-damaged, which is terrible, but a country can also be peace-damaged, so that we never believe that it is real or that we need to practice for real. We really need to practice. In the current security policy situation, we must ensure that our defences are coherent and work. That is why I am so pleased that the committee is united and that there has been an order for the government to speed up. Eight years of processing is not acceptable. If it were to be so long for Tofta, for example, we would be far behind. You only have half the training field today. The other half cannot be carried forward unless the first part is cleared, which we so badly need for the defence settlement to work. The entire shooting field is needed for the 230 soldiers to be in place by 2018 to be able to practice fully. The second issue, which is also supported by a united committee and has been announced, concerns far-reaching pesticides. Just as the previous speaker Daniel Bäckström spoke about, Sweden is in a vulnerable position. It is a wishful thought that Sweden could stay out of a conflict in our neighbourhood. We have also said, with our declaration of solidarity, that we should stand up. In a conflict, if something were to happen in the Baltics, it would be a race. It might not be an invasion of Sweden, but they would probably like to borrow part of Swedish territory, for example parts of Gotland to gain control of the Baltic Sea. That is why it is so important and urgent that we have long-range control systems. It would have been desirable for us to have got it into the deal that came up now, but it is ahead of us. Then it is important to remember that this is something that we should get in place as soon as possible in order to get a good defence and a safe defence that can deliver security to Sweden and to our neighbourhood. Then we could have a long discussion about something else. Daniel Bäckström was into it. Regardless of all the repairs that are necessary and that need to be done, there is not enough. We would have to be in NATO, but there will have to be another discussion, Mr President.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-535	Mr President, I would like to I was thinking mostly about talking about the exercise that it's really about. However, in view of the debauchery that has taken place in some quarters, I would at least like to raise a few questions in that paragraph. Nor can it be avoided to mention the tragedy that has happened in France and elsewhere in the world. I was going to talk about our contribution from the Swedish Democrats in terms of immediate action to support France. Today NRK says that one of the terrorists had a Swedish passport. If it's confirmed or not, I don't know, but they say so. Our proposal is to stop the import and export of terrorists immediately. Do it now! That's a tip. That said, I'm going to something else. I get some conversations and questions about why we don't talk about the economy, NATO and so on. It's coming. To those who listen to this, I say: we will come back to this in the autumn. Right here and now there are some motions I intend to make and comment on. But I will say something to Lena Asplund, Mr President, who uses a large part of her speech to respond to the Swedish Democrats. She mentioned the word abominablely in some context. But if anyone, Mr President, is to be ashamed, it is the Member himself and the party that has been involved in dismantling large parts of the defence, even if they are now trying to exonerate themselves: we did not have the power. I guess I just got off the phone. It'll be almost very embarrassing of you. I am thinking of all those who have been in foreign service, those who have been injured or killed. Mr President, I would like to The Prime Minister of the Moderates dismissed this as a special interest: the Swedish Armed Forces. You should be ashamed of yourself. Then I think a little bit about those who say that it is detail control. I agree with the Left Party and several others. We'll have to be careful not to overrule the detail. But in some of the things that we control in detail, it is a fruit of cooperation with the defence, of cooperation with the Swedish Defence University. What system would you like to have to solve your tasks? Which robot system do you think is best? There are many such things that we put in our thoughts about a future defence. Some of you incorrectly refer to it as being detailed. It is a pure fruit of the Swedish Armed Forces' wishes. Then I'll give you a focus on how we view this. It might be good to think about it. Mr President, I would like to If the defence budget is decided, the objectives and defence capabilities must be adapted accordingly. It's a bag of money. What can you do with it? That is the situation today. The defence budget is fixed and the objectives need to be adapted. Our idea, the Swedish Democrats' thoughts on this, is to reverse it. Targets and defence capabilities are determined. This means that the defence budget must be adapted accordingly. If we then change the defence grant, we must change the goal and thus affect the ability of the Swedish Armed Forces. These are two very different ways of looking at it. In doing so, Mr President, I was going to move a little on to what it should really be about. We can look at what is about basic organisational issues. We have written a motion that concerns protected areas. Protected areas were removed in 2010. That's when protected areas were decommissioned. What was the point of this? Well, of course you pull down on the Armed Forces. Fortifications are being dismantled in coastal areas and everywhere. In those days there were excellent protected areas with large signs that it was forbidden for foreigners to stay in those areas. When the protected areas disappeared, it turned to protective objects. It could be the Riksdag. It could be other objects. A protection object applies equally to foreigners as to Swedes. Now that we are building the Swedish Armed Forces again in different ways, on Gotland and around, there is reason, we think, to go back and review this: What does this require for a protected area where foreigners do not have access? Those of you who listened to the confidential parts of our presentations may recall that there is some justification for re-establishing protected areas. Hence the motion you reject. The subjects are appointed for five years, and the powers of guards have not changed. Then I thought I might touch the training and shooting fields. There, Mr President, Moderate Jesper Skalberg Karlsson has a motion. That exercise is good. We support that. We think that it is essentially like the one we have written. We think it is good enough to support it and not go to war about a few words here and there. It's a good exercise. Then we look at the environmental testing for the practice and shooting fields. A lot has been touched on here. But at least we want to shed some light on it and make a proposal. How does an environmental review work? There is a need for the Swedish Armed Forces. When that need is clear, it goes to the environmental review delegation, MPD. That is where this matter is being prepared. The preparation is finished after a historically long process. The Alliance government tried to shorten it by imposing a restriction on them. Well done. That was a good intention. You can appeal when they are finished with their preparation. What happens after an appeal? Well, then it goes to the Land and Environment Court. Then it'll be prepared again, won't it? What happens next? Well, then the government will prepare the matter and submit proposals for an opinion. Then where does it land? Well, then it lands at the Ministry of Environment and Energy, which will prepare the question. Anyone realizes we're building a huge time process into this. The proposal is that it should go from the environmental review delegation, which prepares it, straight down to the Ministry of Environment and Energy – appeals and that should remain. It prepares, suggests and makes decisions. Remove the passage with the Land and Environment Court! It can be baked into the other. Shortening the processing time! It is a concrete proposal. It is a little more detailed in our writings. Think about it a little bit! This is a concrete proposal that we can discuss later. I'm going to point 4 as we had. We support the motion on Tofta's shooting field, which was referred to by Mr Oscarsson. It's good. It's a little word here and there, but we think the exercise is good. Because it resembles our own, we are especially fond of it. If I'm going to talk a little bit about details of material and procurement issues, now you bring in passenger car 8, I think it's called, and the old ones are being phased out. Then someone says we're pointing out the terrain car 13. But that's what the Home Guard does! They point these vehicles out as old. They're no longer good enough, and then you bring others in. Is that detail control? Also the major problem on the material side that many war units chiefs at the Home Guard experience are details. The shoes are broken, but you can't get new ones out. We have to look at those pieces too. Listen to the Home Guard commanders and battalion commanders, and don't forget these details! There are major deficiencies in this type of equipment for the Home Guard soldiers. We highlight this in our parts. What is said about long-range control systems is good. That is why we support it. However, when we look at what is stated in the text on the long-range control system, we think that one locks a little bit onto more than one type of long-range robot system that is good for reaching attackers in our own country. However, we think that one step is missing. We want a strong anti-aircraft system as a priority, if one has to have a system. Because if you can't protect yourself from incoming missiles, most of it will be shot away when you're going to send long-range robot systems against an attacker. This should, of course, be introduced in parallel, but if one of them is to be prioritised, it is the anti-aircraft. This is one of the systems that we think we can buy over the counter in the light of developments that have taken place. Otherwise, unlike some of you, we think that we should invest in the Swedish defence industry where there is such competence. In the first place, the order must be placed with the Swedish defence industry where there is competence. This direction is very important for the Swedish Democrats. However, some parts have to be purchased over the counter, and the anti-aircraft system is one of them. For example, Aster 30 is an excellent system. There are other excellent systems too, such as a Russian system, Mr President, but this may not be the case for many reasons. Then we can imagine the attack robot Taurus, which was developed by a Swedish-German company and which I hope you know. It can continue to be developed. It's an excellent weapon against hard targets. There is a little bit about this, but we do, after all, support the Moderates' proposal for the long-range control system. When it comes to the Swedish Armed Forces' facilities, we have written a motion to bring down increased protection for management in rock rooms. The clock is ticking, so you will have to be kept in suspense until the next time the Swedish Democrats have a speech here.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-561	Mr President, I would like to In my youth, I dreamed that my voice would fill an opera house, but my singing teacher said it would rather empty it very quickly. I got that feeling now that I was about to start this change of line while the House was emptied after the vote. Not only did you exceed the speaking time by 50%, Roger Richtoff, but I would say that you also exceeded most of the other things by 50% – including some budget restrictions. With regard to this issue of detail control, I think it is amazing that you are expressing yourself as having made these proposals in cooperation with the Swedish Defence and Defence College. I do not know if they recognise you as partners in this way. I think it is a grave misunderstanding of what the political role means when you express yourself in that way. When it then leads to such a detailed control that one is down to a very detailed level, to express myself diplomatically, I can say that one absolutely lacks confidence in the Swedish Armed Forces' competence. I am surprised that the Swedish Democrats put it that way. Do you really believe that political control at a level of detail of the kind you exhibit in your movements is a success story? Then I think you have reason to reconsider. For some reason, I think of the expression, ‘ The Devil lives in the details. ' I do not mean the honourable Member.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-565	Mr President, I would like to The cooperation has not been so that we sit there and cooperate. But when we put forward our proposals on what future defence capabilities should look like and how we build up the structure, unlike the Left Party Member, we think it may be interesting to hear what the professionals think. If the professionals in the field of anti-aircraft systems list three systems, we think it might be good to have it with you when looking at a future direction of defence capabilities. The fact that the Left Party does not care what the professionals would think about this is quite another matter. This is probably because of option one and option two. If the defense grant is to run, it will be what it will be, but if the defense is to control, we will have to shoot at funds. What kind of funds do you get? Do they correspond to the defence capabilities we require? Well, maybe they don't. Well, then you have to change the goal. The Left Party and the Swedish Democrats are clearly different there. I think I believe in the way we work. It is about checking, just as I did now, with the environmental administrations how the time is. Can you cooperate and ask what they think would be appropriate to speed up time? No, maybe not, according to the Left Party. Obviously, it is not right to ask them what they think.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-568	Mr President, I would like to Of course, I have never expressed what Roger Richtoff is trying to imply, that it would be uninteresting to hear what the professionals think or not to ask. The policy should not, however, be an offer to implement the wishes that come, but the policy should take decisions on some other grounds. On the contrary, I would like to say, because what I am trying to say is a respect for the professionalism of the Armed Forces. What Roger Richtoff expresses with the detailed regulations on which cars are to be bought, on tactical radio systems and on buying back mini submarines is exactly the opposite, namely lack of respect for professionalism within the Armed Forces. I find that extremely surprising. As I said, this is not just a theoretical discussion. We all know – the Swedish National Audit Office pointed it out, as well as brain scientists I have quoted – what detailed control means for an organisation. As a result, strategic governance is neglected. It easily leads to informal governance, which is not allowed and which the Swedish Armed Forces experience. In particular, it paralyses the organisation, for there is no point in taking the initiatives one can take on the basis of one's professional competence because politics comes and interferes. Do you really think that politics should detail the Swedish Armed Forces, Roger Richtoff? Do you really think the politicians here, you and I included, have that competence?
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-572	Mr President, I would like to I think that the honourable Member has been raised in the spirit of political life. In political life you have your main career in the profession a politician gets. It does not have to be wrong in any way, but what is typical is when you try to transfer the reasoning. As to what I would have felt about detail control to the full and all that, I wonder what it has to do with this reasoning. I turn back again to the question: What is wrong with listening to what the professionals think when building a defence capability? Why do you do that sometimes? Because then you can also pick up a price tag. Then we're at the alternatives again: the Left Party, here's a bag of money. I'm sure it'll be fine. Do what you want! I agree that we should reduce the level of detail, and we are also working on that. But we will never go so far as not to reserve the right to ask FMV: What are your best merits? What is your best competence? To find out, industry can also be directed towards the development of essential weapons of war or other structures that are good for defence capabilities. It could be a robot system or something. We will always do this, but we will never stop working to remove as many details as possible. But this is not based on details that we sit and make up ourselves. And it is not based on cooperation during hours and nights; it is based on trying to increase understanding. Those of us who have worked for over 35 years and also went to defence schools may value this professionalism considerably higher than the Left Party does. I don't know.
i-b6f37b9b843cd2ad-577	Mr President, I would like to During the last parliamentary term, the security situation changed quite seriously in the world around us. Even in our neighbourhoods – the Baltic Sea, the North Calott and the Baltic – there was a marked change in what had previously been a rather peaceful region. This meant that the previous government provided funds for an increased exercise. And I think it was very important that, through new money, we focused on increased practice activities precisely for the national defence. The focus on national defence and increased practice has also been confirmed in the latest defence decision. After all, as has already been said in this debate, we have a certain preference in our committee not only to discuss details but also to go into direct material issues. But let me say that it doesn't matter what material we have if we can't practice and use it properly. So it does not matter what the scope of a control system is, what aircraft we have, what armaments we have unless the troops are trained to use it properly. There is one problem today, and that is that we have many training places that have limitations that adversely affect the Swedish Armed Forces' operations. In the light of the changing world situation, where we will practice more, we have created unnecessary problems for ourselves. Furthermore, we in the Riksdag have said that the defense will also practice in larger units, up to brigade. It is a decision made by the Riksdag. There is also a need for a government that provides the means to do this, and that is not possible at all. The committee's report states that 18 military training stations are currently under environmental testing. Mr President, I would like to Right should be right. In fact, it is 19 training places that are currently under environmental review, because during the handling of the case new cases have been created without more cases being closed. So at the moment we have a situation that is fundamentally untenable. We are getting more and more training places and fewer and fewer and fewer that can actually be used on what the Swedish Armed Forces want. Of course, there are different ways to reason about exercises, and they can be done in many ways. But if units are to be able to perform tactically, the exercises must also include tactical behavior. It is not enough that we only have shooting ranges, drill fields and garages, but we must have practice fields to get our units to get the war values that we want. Mikael Oscarsson drew the full list of training fields that are relevant for environmental testing, and many of them ring the ears of us who have been conscripts or armed forces employees. It is not about the small exercise fields, but many of them are absolutely crucial to the ability of our present defences to practice. As I said, there are 19 training places. Among these are perhaps one of the most prioritised training fields on Gotland, which together with F 17 in Visby is also currently being environmentally tested. This means great trials for the Swedish Armed Forces, which are building infrastructure and building the conditions for different associations to work together. Of course, the fact that you have these problems while building new units creates tension. However, an exercise was conducted on Gotland a couple of weeks ago and was conducted very well. This nevertheless indicates the Swedish Armed Forces' ability to adapt to the situation they have. I am, in any case, very grateful for the fact that we have received a unanimous committee that agrees to send an order to the government to shorten the processing time for certain matters. Since the previous government has begun this work, I hope that it will not take too long to get the order to Parliament. Mr President, I would like to Today, just under 50 personnel of the Swedish Armed Forces have been made available to assist in the large refugee reception that Sweden currently has. I think it is good that the Swedish Armed Forces' resources can be used when society is under great pressure. I would like it to happen on more occasions and many times with less bureaucracy than today. The Swedish Armed Forces' resources should of course be used primarily to defend Sweden against an armed attack. But that in itself should not prevent the defence from helping the rest of society when it is under pressure or in crisis. Furthermore, Mr President, the Swedish Armed Forces have granted four of their training places for asylum seekers. Here too, it is good that the collective resources of society can be used to support other authorities. That is, of course, excellent. On the other hand, I have some questions as to how this has been coordinated. I have asked questions about this, and the messages have varied over time, ranging from single weeks to several years. This information does not make it easier for the Swedish Armed Forces to plan. I have even asked a single question to the highest political leadership and received the answer that it should be for a limited period of time. Perhaps I should say that answer provides limited information on the future situation. Finally, I would like to say that anyone who never changes his mind, as well as a clock that beats, sooner or later will probably be right at some point. I think it is important that we look at the outside world and see what conditions we have. That is why, Mr President, I would like to support the motion in the Committee on Defence's report.
