i-59e3a63cf1224c43-20	Mr President, I would like to Allan Widman has asked me what measures I am prepared to take in order for Sweden, in the event of a military crisis in the Baltic States, to facilitate the supply of military aid from NATO. Within the framework of our security objectives, Swedish security policy shall prevent war and the emergence of threats to Swedish, Nordic and European security. Sweden has both the opportunity and responsibility to influence the development of the Baltic Sea region. Through the development and deepening of bi- and multilateral defence cooperation, Sweden is helping to strengthen security in our region. It creates predictability, promotes peaceful development and raises the threshold for military incidents and conflicts. Sweden's security policy line is solid. Military alliance freedom contributes to stability in the immediate region and gives us freedom of action. Sweden's security and defence cooperation is being developed together with Finland, the other Nordic and Baltic countries, and – within the framework of the EU – with the UN, the OSSE, NATO partnership and the transatlantic link. These collaborations complement and strengthen each other and strengthen security in our part of the world. The answer to Allan Widman's question is twofold. On the one hand, it is about the measures Sweden takes in peacetime, and on the other hand about the actual measures in the event of a military crisis in our neighbourhood, for example in one of the Baltic countries. With regard to actual measures in the event of a military crisis in the Baltic States, I want to be clear. Threats to peace and security are best avoided in community and cooperation with other countries. Military conflicts cannot be seen in our neighbourhood that would affect only one country. Sweden will not remain passive if a disaster or attack strikes another EU Member State or Nordic country. We expect these countries to act in the same way if Sweden is affected. Sweden should therefore be able to provide and receive civilian and military support. The precise design of measures must be adapted to each individual situation. In the context of the development of defence cooperation in the region, I have conducted individual talks with all Baltic defence ministers during the autumn. We have discussed, among other things, increased opportunities for practice and training activities as well as Swedish contributions to NATO's competence centres for cyber defence in Estonia and strategic communication in Latvia, as well as to deepened bilateral cooperation with Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. A framework agreement has been signed between Sweden and Poland during the autumn. The focus is to deepen the strategic dialogue and deepen bilateral cooperation. The Memorandum of Understanding with NATO on Host Country Support signed by Sweden in September 2014 aims to ensure that Sweden as a host country will be able to provide effective support for military activities on our territory in connection with exercises, crisis management operations or other operations. The agreement is based entirely on the voluntary nature of the parties, which means that it will apply only in cases where Sweden would first take a national decision on military cooperation with NATO in any respect. The agreement could be used across the range of situations, from peace and crisis to war, and would simplify the already ongoing exercise cooperation with NATO Member States. The agreement requires certain legislative changes in order for Sweden to be able to comply with all the commitments. These are now being prepared within the Government Office. The defence decision approved by the Riksdag in June of this year is based on Sweden's military strategic position. In view of the development of the Baltic Sea region, the military presence in Gotland is of particular strategic importance in relation to the Baltic States. During the next focus period, the Swedish defence will be strengthened. This includes the reinforcement of the military presence on Gotland, including anti-aircraft, which is complemented by intensified practice activities on and around Gotland.
i-59e3a63cf1224c43-29	Mr President, I would like to The background to my interpellation is the visit to Stockholm that NATO's Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg made a week ago. The Secretary-General then met, among other things, the members of the Defence and Foreign Affairs Committees. From all the information provided, the Secretary-General was concerned that now that Russian air defences have been deployed in the enclave of Kaliningrad, it is a very narrow corridor between military alliance-free Sweden and Kaliningrad. It is a very narrow corridor through which NATO may have to provide military assistance to the Baltic States. I base my question to the Minister for Defence on the solidarity that Sweden expresses with the EU Member States and the Nordic countries outside the EU. It is present in two ways – not only through the so-called solidarity clause, the defence clause, in the Lisbon Treaty, but also through the unilateral declaration of solidarity we have addressed to the EU and the other Nordic countries before the entry into force of the Lisbon Treaty. Yesterday, both I and the Minister for Defence were able to hear how Mrs Wallström, before the composite Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, conditional Swedish solidarity with our very military freedom of alliance. It was not just the solidarity clause, where there is an explicit reservation, but the Foreign Minister said that the same reservation applies to our unilateral declaration of solidarity. The response the Minister for Defence has now given, and for which I am grateful, confirms the government's position. For Sweden, solidarity is obviously an election, Mr President, and not an obligation. The Minister of Defence also stresses that military alliance freedom gives us freedom of action. He does this before he lists the impressive list of collaborations that Sweden is currently trying to maintain in different ways. This applies to Finland, the other Nordic countries, the Baltic States and – within the framework of the EU-UN, OSSE, NATO partnership and the transatlantic link. However, my point is this, Mr President: as long as we make our solidarity conditional, our partners will do the same. When there is no real trust and when there are no binding obligations in our cooperation, no one will want to invest in them. In one place in the answer it is said that a military conflict in our neighbourhood will not only affect one country. This is how Social Democrats usually express themselves when they have a pious hope that Sweden can somehow get in the way when NATO or someone else is going to rescue third countries. It hopes to get help, even though it is outside real solidarity. Mr President, I would like to I cannot help but conclude from time to time that Swedish security policy is based on the notion that no evil can ever happen in our country.
i-59e3a63cf1224c43-37	Mr President, I would like to One can think about what it really is that Allan Widman is trying to achieve here. Suddenly, the fact that military freedom of alliance is ahead of the list of things we do with other countries raises major issues, and there are profound analyses and weightings of every millimetre in this. What we do is exactly what the Defence Committee first presented in May 2014 and what is in the specialization bill that the Riksdag has endorsed in a broad political agreement. We have a plan to increase military capabilities by 2020, while at the same time deepening all our cooperation n. No one has any pious hopes for either one or the other, but only to see what the world looks like and what is happening in our near world. Then we try to act accordingly. It is like no therapeutic activity that we have now carried out a large number of exercises involving Baltic countries as well. Exercise activities are a security policy signal, but they are also exercises with military resources that could be used, if decided, in a given situation. So there is a sharp part of this in the long run. That is the very point of this. It is no small matter that we should now move on into the Cyber Defence Center of Excellence in Tallinn and that we should prepare the opportunity to enter Stratcom in Riga. Poland's cooperation has now been strengthened in real terms with an agreement that will cover both training activities and materiel cooperation. We have been working on training with the Baltic countries since then. So there are very extensive activities going on here. Then how to act in a real crisis situation is determined by what the crisis situation looks like. The wording that we use, that several countries will probably be affected, is not a formulation specific to Social Democrats, but it is anchored in both the Defence Committee and the orientation bill and needs to cover a broad field in the Swedish parliament. I'm not prepared to stand up for this kind of attempt to falsify concepts. The concepts we are concerned with have a broad foundation in the Riksdag and in previous long-term work between parties. The cooperation we are now building is primarily a way of preventing and stabilising, so that we do not end up in different types of conflict situations. It plays an important role to do such things. In the Swedish-Finnish cooperation, we even go beyond peace-time conditions in our plans and create options and freedom of action to use this kind of opportunity if the accident were to occur. It is also a way of raising the threshold. In comparison with the eight years of bourgeois rule, we can see that we have moved forward positions quite substantially in terms of opening up to different things and deepening different types of collaborations, and also doing so actively. We also have a process with the USA where we are now looking at a road map for enhanced cooperation according to five points. It is not something specific to Social Democrats, but it is also anchored in a broad parliamentary decision based in turn on what the Defence Committee said. I would like to call on Mr Widman to have a little more respect for the platform that Parliament provides in this context.
i-59e3a63cf1224c43-46	Mr President, I would like to I don't mean to disrespect you. I respect the positions of other parties. However, the Minister for Defence must also respect the fact that the People's Party and the undersigned were not part of the security policy conclusions that the Defence Committee presented just over a year and a half ago. We were also not one of the parties that helped to vote through the decision in the Swedish Parliament. It is correct that the Minister for Defence alone is not responsible for these formulations, but it is also responsible for a wide range of other parties, but not mine. I would like to take this opportunity to put a question to the Minister for Defence, because he was in the Chamber yesterday when Mrs Wallström interpreted Sweden's unilateral declaration of solidarity. After all, Mr President, as I mentioned in my introductory speech, it does not have an explicit reservation with reference to military alliance freedom. The fact is that in his reply the Minister of Defence cites this unilateral declaration of solidarity. My question is this: is it also the view of the Minister for Defence that the freedom of military alliances is conditional, for example, on the solidarity that the government has now said it wants to show towards France, among other things? Mr President, I would like to Cooperation on a general level is, of course, very good. You get to know each other, you get to know each other's equipment, materials, intervention rules, training conditions and much more. But my point is that as the international situation now deteriorates rapidly, there are a wide range of countries that sit down and actually plan for a defence, some individual, others collectively. If Sweden then has the attitude expressed by the Minister for Defence that the Swedish side could – very clearly conditionalis – help, this can never be added as a basis for either the Baltic States' contingent planning, Finland's defence planning or NATO planning. It is simply not known how Sweden will act in a serious situation, which is now, unfortunately, moving ever closer. I had a question for the Minister for Defence about how the Minister for Defence interprets the unilateral declaration of solidarity, and I would be very grateful if he could give me an answer to it.
i-59e3a63cf1224c43-50	Mr President, I would like to Allan Widman would be happy to reduce the reasoning to the fact that we are isolated and do not stand up for anything, and that most of it is doubtful. On Monday, I attended the ministerial meeting in Brussels, where the French Minister for Defence requested assistance, support and assistance from the other European countries under the Treaty of Lisbon 42.7. This is the first time that it has been tried at all. On behalf of the government, I said yes to this, just as the others did. Now we expect a description from France of what they want. I hope so, and I am quite sure that we will get it in the near future. Then we will have to decide what to do in that situation. I assume that we will participate in some form of either military or civilian activity or a combination of these. We'll see about that. Different countries will do different things. But this is the real test of the EU Treaty. And we, like the other countries, accept France's request. I think that's obvious. What does this show? Well, it shows that from the standpoint of the situation, you have to decide what to do. It is not possible to say that you will do exactly that way once the crisis is there, because you do not know exactly what it looks like. On the other hand, it is possible to prepare for different types of scenarios. You can prepare for action, but you can't say that exactly this is how it is going to be. In order to facilitate the provision and reception of assistance in a crisis situation, we are also preparing the host country agreement with NATO, and I hope that we will be able to come back to Parliament with it in the next six months. It is also a way of preparing. All the exercises we do are weighted by Allan Widman and I in a little different ways. I see them as realities in a security policy strategy. Each exercise, large and small, has a meaning and links it together in different ways. The fact that we are starting to build a business on Gotland again, I also see as part of a security policy strategy that has a direct impact on the Baltic countries as well. We made a deal in the Riksdag for a mechanised company and a tank company, and we have some other resources on Gotland. We have conducted an extensive exercise with about 1 000 people, and even the anti-aircraft had a front situation. We may need to do more on Gotland in the future, but what we have decisions on is being implemented and built up. We can discuss the history of this, which I have not been a part of. But we can influence the future. In view of the current state of security policy, it is necessary to implement this. It is also noted that Sweden is moving its position. This is important and also important for the Baltic States. Everything we do about incident preparedness and the defence of sovereignty is also important for these countries in terms of what is going on daily in the Baltic Sea and in our neighbourhood. From my contacts, I can see that we have deep relations with the Baltic countries and very deep relations with Finland. There is a process in which we gradually deepen this cooperation. In this context, I would also like to point out the host country agreement with NATO. All of this can be done from an unaligned position. If it's the accident, we'll see who does what in that situation.
i-59e3a63cf1224c43-62	Mr President, I would like to It was good that the previous government in 2009, including through the People's Party, placed a tank company on Gotland. It is good that Peter Hultqvist is pressing for a mechanised company, continuously employed, to come to this island. I fully agree with what he says about the need to do more, because the types of units that exist on Gotland will only be able to make an impact when a possible opponent has risen ashore. It's not so good, because then it's infinitely more difficult to handle him. The Secretary of Defense says that when France's request comes, we'll see what we can do. I can only see that, at this point, when solidarity is so much needed in Europe, Sweden continues to reserve and to be cloudy about what our obligations are, both under the solidarity clause and under our own unilateral solidarity declaration. Mr President, I would like to This is very unfortunate. Now that we are applying these statutes in the Lisbon Treaty for the first time, not only Europe but the whole world will follow closely how each Member State interprets its obligations. I had hoped that Sweden would be perfectly clean here. Mr President, I would like to An example of clear action was when the Netherlands said only a few days after the terrorist attack in Paris: If France is at war, the Netherlands is also at war. This clarity has so far not influenced the Swedish government.
i-59e3a63cf1224c43-68	Mr President, I would like to Allan Widman says that the previous government placed a tank company on Gotland. I think it's a little side by side with the truth. 14 tanks were placed on Gotland. But then it is a question of staff, and we are placing staff there by the decision we have now taken. It will also be a mechanized company. We are building a unit on Gotland where the staff should be. There are personnel tied to the tanks, but they are elsewhere. Now we are going to build a battle group on Gotland, and there is a certain difference compared to the decision made by the previous government. Allan Widman says that Sweden reserves its right. We have said unequivocally yes to France. France will present its needs picture to us. Then we will agree on what to do. It is a clean and clear action. I am opposed to the sleazy wordings which make it clear that we have been clear. I do not share that picture at all, but see it as trying to reduce what we have been clear about. It is strange that it should have to be that way. We will invite the other parties and continue the discussions. We hope for a broad agreement in the Swedish Parliament on an effort in this context. Although there is interest in trying to reduce the government's actions, we will invite and have an open attitude, and I hope, as I said, that there will eventually be broad support in the Swedish Parliament.
i-59e3a63cf1224c43-73	Mr President, I would like to Eva Lohman has asked me what measures I intend to take to further strengthen the role of civil society. Civil society is one of the most important things we have in Sweden. Through the commitment of many people, our society and our democracy are becoming stronger. More than 53% of the population make non-profit contributions, and the time spent by citizens is increasing, especially in women. On average, each of these non-profit efforts does about 4 hours a week. The fact that so many people engage in voluntary activities is a huge resource for society but also crucial for the individual. This is something we should be proud of and that we as decision-makers should protect. Associations, organisations and associations of various kinds are of great importance for social cohesion in society and can help to bridge social gaps and thus strengthen the conditions for democracy. Social work must be based on trust and respect for the people's own commitment and their own organisations. The basis for civil society to be able to play an active role in democracy, both in its voice-bearing function and in its dialogue with the state, is that there are good and long-term prerequisites for the organisations to carry out both activities and organisational development. A strong, multi-phase unified and committed civil society is inalienable in a democracy. Circumstances that make it difficult for civil society to be an active part of democracy can be about resource shortages, as well as about different types of barriers that affect organisations' transparency and access to public decision-making processes. In view of this, the Government gave an additional directive to the Investigation for a Strengthened Civil Society (U 2014:04) that the Investigator should propose how to strengthen civil society conditions so that its role in democracy can be safeguarded and developed (Dir. 2015:38). With reference to the wording of the budget bill quoted by Eva Lohman, I would also like to highlight another effort to strengthen the role of civil society. Civil society organisations often have knowledge and expertise on issues of substance that the government would need to share in a more effective way. The government has therefore, in consultation with civil society, produced drafts for a model of expert advice that will now be examined in the Government Office this spring. This model is intended to be used to create a coherent structure for the government's cooperation and dialogue on various issues in which the organisations' knowledge and experience are important to include in the preparation of an issue within a policy area, for example as regards problem formulation or consideration of possible alternatives. The model can also be used when a question requires more time than an isolated meeting or courtship with the Government. It is based on the six principles of civil society policy and on the European Code of Conduct for the participation of ideas-based organisations in the decision-making process. I share Eva Lohman's approach: Culture is an important force for a more sustainable society. All the good forces need to come together these days to meet the challenges facing Sweden. Culture plays a very important role here, but also civil society and people's commitment. We have really seen in recent months how many people make up for the basic value that all people are equal and that everyone who needs protection from persecution and oppression should have it. In the current situation, it is also important that we can best give the people who come here security on arrival and context and meaning. The proposals from the Investigation for a Strengthened Civil Society will be examined in order to continue to strengthen civil society so that civil society can play an even greater role in the challenges ahead and in our common Sweden.
i-59e3a63cf1224c43-90	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for Culture for his answer. I share the views of the Minister for Culture on civil society and its organisations. They are extremely important for our society, from a democratic point of view, from a participatory point of view and so on. Not least in recent months, when many asylum seekers have come to Sweden, we have seen how well civil society works. Would we be able to meet this challenge if we had not had all the good forces of organisations and associations set up? I am pleased that the migration agreement made by the government gave 105 million extra to civil society and its organisations. The background to my interpellation is the additional directive to be presented in February, which is about further strengthening the role of civil society, and the migration agreement, which I hope will benefit many people. There are EUR 105 million for new arrivals or asylum seekers in particular. It's good to work together sometimes. But I have a small thought: What exactly is the 105 million to be used for, how is the money to be distributed and who is to do it?
i-59e3a63cf1224c43-96	Mr President, I would like to I thank Mr Lohman for the questions. I share the honourable Member's view. Civil society is important. Civil society has really demonstrated in recent months the power and the importance, perhaps crucial, of its organisations to Sweden. The agreement reached between the government and the Moderates, the People's Party, the Center Party and the Christian Democrats on 23 October means, among other things, that civil society organisations receive as much as 200 million in one-off funds. The funds will be distributed among the different parts of civil society. Sport will have its share, peoples' education will have its share and civil society organisations – more fully – will have their share. As Mr Lohman describes, these are parts of the 200 million. At the moment, we are working on the allocation of funds. It is essential that they come to the right organisation, which has the opportunity to switch up and make the best of the money. It is tax money that we see in a broad agreement between all democratic parties in the Riksdag as an important contribution for the Sweden we want to build and where civil society plays an important role. It is not yet quite clear what the distribution will be. Close and intense discussions are taking place, and I will have reason to come back and communicate about this with the Member of Parliament and hopefully the whole Parliament shortly.
i-59e3a63cf1224c43-103	Mr President, I would like to We have 200 000 organisations in Sweden. We are 9.5 million inhabitants, and over 80 percent of us are in at least one association. So there is a tremendous force in our society. I will continue to think about the gift deduction, which in 2014 gave SEK 1.5 billion to civil society's approved organisations, which was a substantial increase compared to 2013. 820,000 people gave. Imagine what a complement to public life it would have been if this money had been able to benefit society now. They could have strengthened people's power and promoted all the power that exists in civil society. 1.5 billion SEK is a lot of money – a little too much to say that it complements the 105 million to civil society. I miss the gift deduction. I really feel it's a shame that it's taken away. It was an expression of people's willingness to help each other and stand up for our society. Does the Minister of Culture think that the gift deduction today, in the situation we have with thousands of people coming every week, would have been a good complement to civil society organisations and volunteers today?
i-59e3a63cf1224c43-108	Mr President, I would like to The government and I are convinced that people in Sweden give because they want to, not to get tax deductions. It has manifested people in Sweden over the past year. Many of the civil society organisations have broken record in collected funds. We are convinced that people give for very different reasons from tax deductions. It is important for the government that we have an active civil society policy and that we make reality of the words that we push and lift all the time. We believe that civil society organisations play a large and important, perhaps crucial, role for Sweden's present and future. We are therefore strengthening civil society, including through the work against racism carried out intensively by my department. In an action plan against racism that we will be presenting next year, we have a close dialogue with civil society organisations. The proposals for activities that we receive would never have been so good and might not have come out if it had not been for civil society organisations, where people voluntarily gather to contribute to our society. In recent years, we have stepped up efforts for interreligious dialogue. After what has happened in our surrounding world, now in Paris a second time, but also in previous years, threats and hatred of our religious communities have increased disastrously. The government has therefore seen it as extremely important to strengthen religious communities, which form a large part of civil society organisations. In the work for and with national minorities, we have announced a review of the law on national minorities. In that review, civil society organisations are important actors because it is precisely those representing different national minorities who have experience of and can demonstrate what changes are needed to improve the law. They are therefore an important player in the preparatory work we are now engaged in. State subsidies are important. Through the Swedish Agency for Youth and Civil Society issues, the Swedish state distributes support and funding to many different organisations to enable them to carry out activities, both day-to-day operations and projects. In the 2016 budget, the government reinforces support for civil society organisations on a broad front, from LGBTQ organisations, disability organisations and women's shelters to outdoor organisations, the sports movement, anti-discrimination agencies and study associations. All the various associations receive increased funding. It is clear that the government is taking steps to strengthen the role of civil society. We really do act out all the beautiful words.
i-59e3a63cf1224c43-117	Mr President, I would like to I share the culture minister's view of civil society. I also think it is extremely important. The various organisations and associations shall have the means to carry out meaningful activities. It's obvious. But I think the gift deduction would have been a complement to this. Perhaps it would have meant even more resources for the associations, and it could have strengthened the volunteers in particular. One could have invested more in what the state contribution is not enough for, because the state, tax-funded grant is not from heaven, but it is limited. I share the view of the Minister for Culture. But I still feel it's a shame that the gift deduction disappears. I also know that many religions had been approved gift recipients, and they could have developed and worked more with their activities. They need it. There is 10 million in the faiths of this budget. I look forward to the additional directive being presented in Febr uari, to see how the government intends to do to further strengthen civil society. I also look forward to seeing in practical terms how the principle of dialogue and cooperation with civil society will work in practice. I thank the Minister for Culture very much for his answer.
i-59e3a63cf1224c43-122	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Member of Parliament Lohman for the requested interpellation and for a good conversation. As I have mentioned before, the government is doing much to strengthen civil society. We strengthen the conditions for civil society organisations to work with the reception and establishment of new arrivals in our country, and we have constant dialogue with civil society organisations. It is a dialogue that has intensified and strengthened over the past year and has also opened and prepared for a better dialogue and increased trust between the government and civil society organisations, which we believe is crucial for civil society to be able to live up to the importance and potential of civil society organisations. As I said, we await an investigation into how to strengthen civil society. Dan Ericsson will hand over the investigation to the government shortly. In conclusion, I would like to stress the importance of not taking civil society organisations for granted. Maybe it's easy to imagine that it's rolling on. They represent too much of what is important and that many people who come to our country need right now. From the public side and from the government's side, we are very keen not to exploit civil society, but to really pave the way for the various civil society organisations to develop and operate on the basis of their statutes, based on their idea of why they have been formed. If we manage to keep that balance – respect civil society organisations and their differences – I am convinced that we have every chance of becoming an extremely strong Sweden that stands even in an uncertain future.
i-59e3a63cf1224c43-126	Mr President, I would like to Helena Bouveng has asked Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson if the government plans to publish an action plan or an analysis of how the goal of Europe's lowest unemployment in 2020 is to be achieved. Jenny Petersson has asked me how I believe that the Government's budget proposal should contribute to reaching the unemployment target in 2020 when it raises the thresholds to the labour market and when the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and Industry has warned that it leads to fewer jobs. The first interpellation has been handed over to me. I reply to both interpellations in one context. The OECD's latest Economic Outlook, published in early November, notes that economic growth in Sweden will increase at a good pace in the coming years, while employment continues to rise and unemployment continues to fall. The OECD notes that recent unemployment has fallen at a faster rate than expected. An important conclusion in the report – a conclusion shared by the government – is that skill-enhancing efforts will be crucial to enable employment to continue to increase in the future, not least among groups with a weak position in the labour market. The previous government left behind a high level of unemployment, which is also unevenly distributed in the population. Not least, it is high among people without completed upper secondary education. Despite high unemployment, the number of job vacancies is higher than ever before. It is a clear signal that many companies fail to find the skills they require. Many unemployed people simply lack the skills required in today's labour market. In the long run, this is detrimental to Sweden's competitiveness and the growth potential of the economy. In order to counter the matching problems in the labour market, to have a good increase in employment and to reduce the high unemployment rate, we need to invest in Sweden. Investments in jobs are made within the Government's Job Agenda, which consists of three parts: investments in skills and matching to equip people to take the jobs that are emerging; an active business policy for more and growing companies; and investments in infrastructure; more housing and climate change. In total, the Government in the 2015 Spring Bill and the 2016 Budget Bill have presented investments for jobs totalling more than SEK 14 billion for 2016. One of the interpellants has asked me how increased social security contributions for young people, increased unemployment ceilings in unemployment funds and limited ROT deductions should contribute to lower unemployment. In the past, I have explained to the House the government's position on the abolition of social security contributions for young people. The Institute for Labour Market and Education Policy Evaluation, IFAU, notes in a study that the reduction in social security contributions for young people has generally had little impact on employment relative to its cost. Nor does the reduction appear to have had any effect on those groups of young people who are primarily in need of support, i.e. those with a weak link to the labour market. Instead, the government is carrying out reforms in the labour market and education area to make it easier for more unemployed people to get to work. More unemployed people will have the opportunity to acquire the necessary training to take up the jobs that are emerging. The fast track accelerates the establishment of newcomers, so that more people can quickly gain a firm foundation in the labour market and get a job that corresponds to the skills they possess. Investing in active measures for the long-term unemployed and persons with disabilities with reduced working capacity will strengthen their job opportunities. Increased unemployment benefit coverage increases the income security of the individual in the event of unemployment, ensures that the insurance functions as a loss of income insurance and facilitates transition and matching in the labour market. The change in the ROT deduction is justified by the fact that the money released as a result of this change is to be used, among other things, to increase the construction of new homes. The government reports in budget proposals and spring proposals on the overall assessment of how the government's reforms affect employment and unemployment. Overall, the measures proposed in the budget proposal are assessed as contributing to higher employment and lower unemployment in the coming years. At the same time, reality is rapidly changing before our eyes. The fact that so many people are now taking refuge in Sweden from war and oppression has in a short time changed the conditions radically after the budget bill was presented. Sweden's population will grow significantly faster than previously expected, and the large number of asylum seekers will affect both the labour force and unemployment in the future. In the short term, this poses a challenge for Sweden, but in the longer term it offers opportunities for Sweden.
i-59e3a63cf1224c43-135	Mr President, I would like to The fact that we will have Europe's lowest unemployment within five years was one of the absolute sharpest electoral promises of the Social Democrats for the 2014 elections. A while ago, about half a million more people would have a job to go to. What the figure is today probably does not know either the Minister for Employment or I do. But we can surely agree that the number is large, and for the red-green government to even be close to succeeding with the promised election promise, the government needs to put the gear lever in the forward position – not the hill – and also to put in a very high gear. So far, the Red-Green Government has not directly pinked the market with so far known tax proposals. Unfortunately, the government's proposals to date have the opposite effect and are estimated to reduce the labour supply by 10 000 – 15 000 jobs. Even the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise has now carried out an analysis of the effects of the proposal and estimates that within a few years the number of jobs will decrease by more than 25,000, not least in trade and tourism. In the choir, the Council of Finance Ministers is also right, which has reported that nothing indicates that the government will achieve its goal of Europe's lowest unemployment. Mr President, I would like to As Sweden's only Labour Party, of course, we are very concerned that we now have a red-green government that runs a tax policy that does not lead to more jobs but less, and whose overriding objectives are in principle entirely dependent on the progress of other EU countries. The most important thing for us is how many people have a job to go to in Sweden, not if it is relatively more or less than in Greece. During the Alliance, 350 000 new jobs were created. The reform agenda was great, and it was quick. If we are to achieve our common well-being, it is imperative that more people, not fewer people, have a job to go to, that more people want to work higher up in the ages and that more people want to work an extra hour. That is why we are putting jobs first on our political agenda. I find it difficult to see that the same applies to you with the red-green tax policy. Nor do the Swedish people believe it. A survey conducted earlier this year by Svenska Dagbladet shows that eight out of ten Swedes, and a majority of the Social Democrats' own voters, do not believe that the Social Democrats' most important election promise on Europe's lowest unemployment will be achieved. But what is the view of the Minister for Employment? In the budget bill, it is difficult to see what you have done for the analysis or action plan of how we in Sweden with the anti-job policy should still achieve Europe's lowest unemployment. The Alliance reported such calculations during its reign. Why does the present government not do so? In view of the policy of the Red-Greens, I can understand if one is concerned in the government that black-and-white is being forced to report to the electorate that the Social-Democrat-led government is once again delivering a brute electoral promise.
i-59e3a63cf1224c43-145	Mr President, I would like to There were big words in the election movement and even when the government took office. The government has stated that the 90-day guarantee for young people with training contracts and trainee services, as well as the additional services for the long-term unemployed, would play a key role in reaching the lowest unemployment rate in the EU by 2020. Now the Ministry of Labour's own agency, the Employment Service, shows that there are significant problems in creating the places for which forecasts have been made in the past. Employment services are now lowering expectations for these measures. In October, the number of participants in the various actions was substantially revised. In addition, the media have examined this and have seen that a trainee service had actually been registered at the beginning of November. When the government talks about investment in jobs, work agendas and unemployment targets, it sounds very wrong in my ears. The budget proposal itself concludes that it actually slows down the number of jobs and growth in Sweden. Some advice from the opposition is that perhaps one should focus on having a job goal instead of an unemployment target, because this unemployment target is not achieved and, moreover, the wrong focus and is seen by many. On time, I have expressed my view that there has been a lack of job-streaming in the work of the government, and that the budget proposal lacks employment effects from the proposals put forward. The Minister for Labour should be able to hold many balls in the air, but we can stick to two. Ylva Johansson writes in her reply that economic growth in Sweden will increase at a good rate over the next few years, while employment will continue to rise and unemployment will continue to fall. Yes, this happens because Sweden is tough on, but this happens despite the government's reforms slowing this down. A different policy would have been better. Of course there is growth, but it is not thanks to government reform or employment policy. On the contrary, the government's reforms and employment policy are slowing it down. But if we are to stick to the government's employment goals and unemployment targets, for example, Economics Professor Lars Calmfors has previously condemned them. This week he said that the nail in the coffin is now coming because of the flow of refugees but that the targets were impossible already before. Ylva Johansson has repeatedly defended this. But in an interview with her yesterday, it seemed that the government was forced to abandon the job case. Ylva Johansson himself says so. My question is therefore: are the government and Ylva Johansson sticking to the job case?
i-59e3a63cf1224c43-158	Mr President, I would like to Sometimes I wonder what reality the Moderates live in. At the moment we have a very positive development in the labour market. Unemployment is falling faster than most assessors expected. Youth unemployment is falling particularly rapidly. But even long-term unemployment, which for so many years with bourgeois rule has stuck to a very high level, is now falling. It is sad that the Moderates are not pleased with this positive development of the labour market, but instead paint a picture of the development going in the wrong direction. It doesn't. It's actually going in the right direction. Labour market policy must, of course, be adapted to the reality that exists. The most important thing to solve the problem of unemployment is investment that leads to the creation of new jobs and the creation and growth of new businesses. The second important thing is training efforts to equip those who are unemployed to take up the job vacancies. During the old government, remarkable cuts were made in educational opportunities. The result was also an increase in labour market mismatches, an increase in unemployment and a dramatic increase in youth unemployment. Now we have an opposite development. This is partly because we have changed labour market policies in order to be more flexible and adapt to the reality we have. Now we have a development in which more and more people, not least young people, are getting jobs without the help of labour market policy measures. It sees the Moderates as a failure. I see it as a success. It is absolutely excellent that people get a job without the help of labour market policies. However, we need labour market policies for those people who do not get jobs on their own, but perhaps need extra investment in education, wage subsidies or other types of intervention. It is clear that we should direct labour market policy efforts to those people who need them most. Youth unemployment is now falling very rapidly. It is now down below 20% seasonally. It's even lower if you look instantaneously. It has fallen by more than 3 percentage points in the last year. It is still a high level, and there is still a need for a great deal of effort, especially in the case of young people who lack upper secondary skills. But it is obviously good if more young people get jobs without the support of labour market policies. Then we can redirect these efforts to other groups that might need them better. Mr President, I would like to Reality is changing rapidly. It has become clear, not least this autumn. After the government presented its budget proposal, the whole situation in Sweden has changed dramatically in many respects. It is, of course, a government's task to always be able to govern the country and fix it according to the situation. This means that labour market policies must be adapted to the new conditions. The new challenges, with record numbers of people seeking and being protected in Sweden in a very troubled and dangerous time in the world, will of course affect our ability to achieve our ambitious goal of Europe's lowest unemployment.
i-59e3a63cf1224c43-168	Mr President, I would like to So far, it is the Alliance's tax policy that applies. The employment rate is the highest in Europe. I'm happy about that. The cautious economic recovery in our surrounding world opens the door to more people having a job to go to. We can see this not least on the youth side. What does the Social Democratic Government do? Well, it solves tomorrow's challenges with the same recipe as before. It was not very successful then and is probably not a big success story today either. It is a question of increasing taxes on the broad front, of reducing the tax credit for jobs, of adjusting the state tax threshold, of reintroducing the wage tax for people over 65, of removing the reduction in employers' contributions for young people completely, of reducing the ROT tax credit, of halving the RUT tax credit and of increasing the tax on petrol and diesel. This means a total of SEK 36 billion in taxes, of which 2 per cent goes back to industrial policy. At the same time, the large part actually goes to grants. What does this mean? Does it lead to more people working if it pays less to have a job? Will more people be trained if education does not pay off? Will there be more hours worked if the reward is small? Will there be more than 65 people remaining in the labour market if the profit is marginal? Will more people hire young people if it becomes more expensive? Will there be more jobs if fewer repairs are made in our homes? Will there be more jobs if the RUT sector is halved? Will there be more jobs if transport costs in rural areas are extremely expensive? I sound like a bleak twig. And that's exactly what I am. Sweden needs, not least in these times, a tax policy that leads to more, not fewer, getting jobs. Does Ylva Johansson think that any of the tax increases I have just mentioned lead to more jobs rather than fewer jobs? Did the Minister of Labour discuss with the Prime Minister whether these tax increases would lead to more or fewer jobs? After all, the Prime Minister promised in the election movement that he would ask every minister for new decisions if they would lead to more or fewer jobs. Did Ylva Johansson get that question, and what was Ylva Johansson's answer to the Prime Minister?
i-59e3a63cf1224c43-173	Mr President, I would like to The increase in jobs and the fall in unemployment in some areas are absolutely gratifying. But how can this be attributed to government policy? The Minister for Labour has, on several occasions in this House, lamented that the government had to rule on the Alliance's budget, on the policy of the Alliance. What action has led to a fall in unemployment, Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson? That is my question, to which I would like a concrete answer. My colleague Helena Bouveng talked about young people. Many young people have got their first jobs in the RUT and ROT industries. This is where the government is making things worse. It warns different institutes and professors about. What we are discussing here is that Sweden is heading in the wrong direction. How will the government stand to achieve the EU's lowest unemployment target by 2020 when it presents reforms that reduce the chances for young people to get the first job? Another group, which is clearly forgotten by the Minister for Labour, is people with disabilities. I have not seen any reforms or policies in this area. If more people are to get into work, we must also have a disability perspective in the labour market. It is completely lacking and has been absent in the debate and at the Ministry of Labour. Many people who are unemployed and enrolled in Arbetsförmedlingen have a disability. There are no proposals for getting people with disabilities into work. I repeat my question so that I can get an answer. What action by the government has led to a fall in unemployment?
i-59e3a63cf1224c43-179	Mr President, I would like to I am a little surprised that the moderate representatives who are here in this House are beating their chests because, together with the Swedish Democrats, they managed to shake up Swedish society and put pressure on Sweden when one year ago they tried to obstinate the government's ability to get its budget through. They have since crawled to the cross and more or less apologized for it. That's good. But then I might think that perhaps you should breast-feed a little less on that issue today. The claim that the government would rule on any policy other than its own is absolutely absurd. The Minister for Employment will, of course, also mention this. The government, of course, governs its own policy. What really led me to ask for the floor were some statements by Helena Bouveng. She said, among other things, that she sounds like a bleak twig. We can let those who listen to the debate decide that. I would rather say that Helena Bouveng sounds like an old fashioned, old-fashioned policy and an old idea of how to solve the problems we face. It is no wonder that one has the view that it is not relevant if there are more or fewer unemployed in Sweden than in Greece, as Helena Bouveng said in her first speech, when representing the policy that in government positions led to Sweden being compared with precisely Greece, Italy – the countries that were supported by the European Union. German taxpayers had to go in and pay for Helena Bouvengs and Jenny Petersson's then government failed policy. It is therefore sloppy to say that it would not be relevant if Sweden had more or fewer unemployed than Greece. Unfortunately, the Swedish youth had to pay a high price for the disregard that Helena Bouveng expresses in the speaker's chair.
i-59e3a63cf1224c43-184	Mr President, I would like to I have said it several times in this House, and I say it again: although the Parliament voted through a bourgeois budget, from the first day I and the government have conducted a social democratic and environmental partisan labour market policy. From day one, we started a radical change in labour market policy. We have started a very extensive and close cooperation with Sweden's municipalities, a very extensive and close cooperation with the social partners and a radical liberalisation and rescheduling of labour market policies and the Public Employment Service. It is also evident in the business today. Patrik Björck said Helena Bouveng is an old fashioned. That's actually what it sounds like. She sees tax policy as the only instrument that can be used to solve societal problems. I think it is difficult to find someone who is financially knowledgeable and who thinks the most sensible thing in a situation where we have quite strong features in the Swedish economy and quite strong growth of new jobs is to stimulate the economy with further broad tax cuts. Instead, as the OECD shows, it is certainly what is needed. Even in the worse economic climate, most people condemned the kind of general tax cuts targeted at all those who were employed or already had young people employed, because it was a reform that gave very little weight to the money. It was expensive and inefficient. Jenny Petersson says that the government is reducing the opportunities for young people to get their first job. Then you don't know much about what makes young people get a first job. I can tell Jenny Petersson what is the big difference between the young people who have relatively easy access to their first job and those who find it very difficult to get it. It is upper secondary competence that is the crucial part of the water in the labour market. Evaluations have shown that general tax cuts – such as reductions in the social security contributions for young people, which have now also been abandoned by the Moderates – were a policy that did not help young people who lacked upper secondary skills. They were left in the lurch. As Patrik Björck said, we ended up in a situation where Sweden under the old government had so high youth unemployment that we received support from other EU countries to combat it. Now we've changed the politics. All the focus is now on equipping young people with the skills needed to enter the labour market and remain there. The housing shortage is acute, it is extensive and it is one of the single most important obstacles to further economic growth and strong competitiveness for Sweden. It is necessary to build up the housing shortage so that there can be a different mobility of the labour market in order for companies to be able to find people with the right skills. We have to question whether it is the right priority to invest all tax money in this situation in subsidising the conversion of porches and kitchens. The government is re-prioritizing. There are still subsidies for the conversion of porches and kitchens, but they are not quite as generous – this in order to free up labour and resources for housing construction. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to say to Jenny Petersson that in my written interpellation response, to which she has had access since yesterday, I have just mentioned the efforts for disabled people in the labour market.
i-59e3a63cf1224c43-195	Mr President, I would like to I can agree with the Minister for Labour that the red-green government's tax policy is radical and I would also like to add – anti-jobs. I also agree with the Minister for Labour that Sweden is facing major challenges. Ylva Johansson is probably, as I am, of the opinion that if we are to cope with this extraordinary situation in which we find ourselves, extraordinary measures are also required. Today's situation is very much about a roof over your head, but there will be a tomorrow when many newly arrived people need to quickly get into the Swedish labour market and find their way there. I think it is good that we have an agreement across the block, but I think we all realise that it is far from enough. I know that Ylva Johansson has previously said that she wants to abolish the RUT reform completely. Now the proposal is to halve it. The agreement has extended the number of services included to include, inter alia, floating services. Regardless of what you think about the RUT reform, even Ylva Johansson can only say that this has led to 20 000 more people getting a job. These people are often far removed from the labour market and the majority of them are born abroad. At the same time, this is a profit for the Treasury. I therefore wonder whether, in this extraordinary situation, the Minister for Labour is prepared to reintroduce the maximum amount of SEK 50 000. I hope that we have a Minister for Labour who can put aside his own aversions to reform, so that those who are now fleeing from war can have a job to go to, that the Minister for Labour can be involved in developing and not dismantling a sector that gives new arrivals a job. In this way they can contribute to our common well-being.
i-59e3a63cf1224c43-202	Mr President, I would like to Ylva Johansson talks about upper secondary school skills as if I have not understood it. It testifies to the differences in politics. We Moderates have seen the evaluations of the results of labour market training. That is why we are making an effort in the regular education system instead of investing in labour market training. When you make the investments that Ylva Johansson requested, it gives results. That's exactly what we Moderates want to do, Ylva Johansson. To go back to the question that I got the answer to yesterday at lunch, it says that Ylva Johansson sticks to the unemployment case. Ylva Johansson also said this week that this might not be the case. I give Ylva Johansson every chance to answer the question here in Parliament: Are the government and Ylva Johansson sticking to the unemployment case? The most important thing I would like to highlight is that the Minister for Employment has, on several occasions here, lamented the fact that there has been government with the Alliance's budget. It is now said that this has not been done and that labour market policies are being pursued. But if you look at what proposals have been made in that area, the result is non-existent.
i-59e3a63cf1224c43-205	Mr President, I would like to Jenny Petersson's post was a little confused. She confuses different forms of education. After all, what the old government did was to reduce the opportunities for young people to acquire upper secondary school skills. They closed the door in their faces. Then it's a little exciting to hear at Helena Bouveng. She pulls off her toes and says that extraordinary measures are needed. Then she wants to screw a little bit into the RUT deduction. It is there somewhere that there is so much concern about today's opposition. I understand that the interpellants will interpel, question, ask questions to the government's representatives, make demands and use the parliament's power of control over the government. That is reasonable, and I do not criticise this in any way. However, such breast tones are being used to say that extraordinary measures are needed, as I agree, and then a little bit is being done in an old reform. Not a word has it come from the Moderates – not in this debate, nor before – who have shown that they have drawn any conclusions from their failure for eight years in power. Eight years in power led to a deterioration in matching in the Swedish labour market, a fall in productivity in Sweden and an increase in youth unemployment. We should be able to draw some conclusions from this and not just come up with the same old moderate policy. When you think that extraordinary measures are needed, you can turn a little into an old reform.
i-59e3a63cf1224c43-208	Mr President, I would like to I would like to say to Jenny Petersson – which I thought Jenny Petersson already knew – that labour market policy is governed by the government through regulations and regulatory letters. Cooperation with the parties and municipalities is not something that requires any proposals to the Riksdag. From the first day we changed the whole labour market policy. For example, we removed two thirds of the regulations in the Employment Service's letter of regulation, which is more important than the individual measures that can be taken in labour market policy. It also gives freedom for professional employment intermediaries to adapt the system to work closely with employers' needs. I would like to thank Helena Bouveng for a welcome change of tone in the last post. I share the view that we are faced with an extraordinary situation requiring extraordinary measures. It is very welcome that the parties in such situations can come together and perhaps put some old struggles aside to deal with for Sweden very big challenges. I don't understand where the idea comes from that I would have old aversions against RUT jobs. That's not true, on the contrary. The government retains the RUT reform precisely because it has led to black jobs becoming white and more jobs being created. Nor is it true that we would have any proposal to halve the RUT deduction. The small reduction we make of the highest ceiling affects very little in the RUT reform. In addition, we have now proposed, together with other parties, an extension of the RUT reform. One can always have a discussion about how tax money is most useful in labour market policy, but it is not true that the government halves RUT and that I have an aversion to RUT jobs.
i-59e3a63cf1224c43-212	Mr President, I would like to Sotiris Delis has asked the Prime Minister how he views the Government's need for a Minister for Integration. The interpellation has been handed over to me. In the Government Declaration, the Prime Minister stated that the idea of an integration policy distinct from employment, education and welfare policies is out of date. Integration is a matter within each policy area and within the remit of each individual minister. Since the government declaration, the refugee situation has changed dramatically, not only for Sweden but for the whole of the EU. The current situation now makes it even more necessary for each policy area and every minister in the government to take responsibility for enabling us to meet the challenges facing Sweden. This applies both to the reception of asylum seekers, which at present is primarily the major challenge, as well as to the establishment of those who are granted a residence permit. Housing solutions for asylum seekers are high on the government's agenda. Ensuring housing, equal schooling and rapid entry into the labour market are important prerequisites for the establishment and integration of newcomers. The Government's establishment policy aims to enable new arrivals to come to work, to take advantage of the skills and experiences they carry and thus to be able to provide self-sufficiency and security. However, initiatives and actions need to be coordinated in order to have the greatest impact. It is natural that I, as Minister for Labour, therefore have a coordinating responsibility for integration issues. The establishment of new arrivals is on the agenda for the whole government. In terms of labour market policy, education and welfare policy, this is particularly important. The government's migration policy is of course also important in this context. In common with the Minister for Migration, I have taken the initiative in the past to coordinate and prepare issues concerning the establishment of new arrivals in our country between the relevant departments of the Government Office. In dealing with the current situation, one of the State secretaries at the Ministry of Labour has a central role to play. From the Ministry of Labour, we have also taken into account the need for collaboration and dialogue with actors outside the government to speed up and streamline the establishment of new arrivals. One of the initiatives is dialogue with the social partners on fast track. Another initiative is to increase civil society's conditions for action for both asylum seekers and new arrivals. The government organizes its work according to how best it can deliver the best results. Generally, the needs can change over time, but for the Ministry of Labour, the establishment of new arrivals is a focus area right now.
i-59e3a63cf1224c43-219	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its answer in a burning and very topical question. When I wrote the interpellation, Mr President, I had not even expected in my wildest imagination that this issue would become as burningly topical as it is today. Even in my blackest scenario, I could not have expected such a system collapse as the one we can now witness. I was going to start my answer to the Government through a direct question: what would the government lose if it had an integration minister with overall responsibility for integration? Ever since the Prime Minister informed in the 2014 Government Declaration that the Ministry of Integration would be abolished, I have wanted to ask the question of the real motive and the real driving forces behind the Prime Minister's decision. I let the time pass when I wanted to await the consequences of this decision. Although my political idea platform is a bit away from the government, I thought you should give it a chance. But time passed, and I saw clearly that the challenges of the refugee issue were avalanche for our country. Problems accelerated, and a system collapse is now imminent. Mr President, I would like to The Government suggests that it is she who has the coordinated responsibility – well so. Is she, too, to be held accountable for the lack of government integration policy? This, of course, has to do with the government's failure to manage the challenges wisely. It is, in my opinion, proof of a lack of management and coordination capacity that the government has difficulty explaining. Precisely because integration policy is not an isolated area, we need a minister who sees the whole and connects measures in all these areas. Allowing the expression to take place here and there in various departments is not good enough, Mr President. The problem of integration does not disappear simply because there is no minister to criticise.
i-59e3a63cf1224c43-225	Mr President, I would like to There are several ways to organise the work of a government, and I think several ways can be good. It is difficult to find the most optimal organization in a government. I don't think anyone really found it. Perhaps it is not, but rather the content of the policy, which is crucial to the success of the policy. I believe that we should not lock ourselves too tightly in which ministerial posts will solve the social problems but rather focus on the efforts. Mr President, I would like to Nevertheless, I would like to point out that in a situation where we have a huge number of newly arrived children who are going into Swedish school, I think it would be completely unreasonable if the Minister for Education were not also responsible for those children. Would anyone other than the Minister for Education be responsible for all the children now entering primary school? Would anyone other than the High School Minister be responsible for all the newly arrived teenagers who are now entering Swedish upper secondary school? Would anyone other than the Minister for Health be responsible for health care for all the many new arrivals in need of care? Would anyone other than the Minister for Housing start to build housing and be responsible for housing policies aimed at those who are newly arrived, while the Minister for Housing would build housing and have a housing policy aimed at those who have already lived in the country for a long time? Would we have a Minister of Social Services who would only take responsibility for those who have lived here for a long time and a Minister of Integration who would be responsible for social services for new arrivals? I think this will be very difficult, especially in the situation we now have, with very big challenges and huge number of record new arrivals to be integrated into Swedish society. I think it will be difficult to imagine that it will succeed if the minister responsible for the subject matter is not also responsible for the new arrivals. For example, if responsibility for school were to be divided between a Minister for Integration and a Minister for Education, I find it difficult to see that this would facilitate the situation in this situation.
i-59e3a63cf1224c43-228	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government. This is a very urgent debate, because it is the very management capacity of the government that governs the country. The government and the government seem to have suffered the curse of the commons, if the expression is allowed. Everyone's responsibility is nobody's responsibility. It's the syndrome. Integration is a matter within each policy area and within the responsibility of each individual minister," says the Government. Wouldn't the same apply to equality, if I may ask a counter-question? Then why does the government have a minister for gender equality? In that case, we should phase it out too. Mr President, I would like to In my view and in the opinion of many others, quality of leadership is also the ability to see things in time and act. This government has not done so. I would say that in today's serious situation, the Prime Minister's decision not to appoint a minister with exclusive responsibility and a focus on migration and integration issues is extremely unfortunate. I am not impressed by the government's migration and integration policy. Mr President, I would like to I turn to the other very interesting question relating to this. Earlier this year, the Government has stated in the media in different contexts that new arrivals should be in work within two years. It is a realistic goal according to the Government. My question is: does the Government insist that it is realistic to achieve that goal? What steps does the Government intend to take, after we are where we are, to get there?
i-59e3a63cf1224c43-232	Mr President, I would like to It is a reasonable goal that people should be in work or education after two years in start-up efforts in Sweden. It is reasonable that it should be normal. Of course, there are individuals who have special difficulties. There are individuals who may have illnesses or other obstacles to entry into the labour market. Of course it is. Each individual must be treated individually. We have seen far too much of a low level of ambition when it comes to the entry of newcomers into the labour market. We in Sweden have for many years seen it as natural that it should take an enormous amount of time before people enter the Swedish labour market or get into education. I want to change that view. For a great many individuals, what is good about time passing, year after year, before entering work and education? For a great many people, it risks the skills, initiative and willingness to act and contribute in the Swedish society that they have brought with them to be weakened or damaged by the fact that they are out of the labour market for a very long time and are not called upon to do so. Time is normally a harmful factor. Therefore, it is important to focus on people getting into work and education relatively quickly. Let me take this with education as an example. I was asked what efforts needed to be made. Of the people currently present in the start-up assignment, which is a two-year assignment, 0.5 per cent participate in some form of training in addition to SFI. This is an astonishingly low figure given that a fairly large proportion of newcomers coming to Sweden have a relatively low level of education. Even those with higher education often need some form of supplementary education. The government is therefore investing heavily in education opportunities for those who need to establish themselves on the Swedish labour market. We are also rediscovering large parts of the establishment mission in the sense that we will make it much more individually adapted. We have removed the measure that the old government had with establishment slots. One of the problems with that was that it was the same measure for everyone regardless of the needs and whatever the conditions. Instead, we are now trying to tailor different solutions for different individuals and different groups. We do this with fast track so that people who have professional skills that are in demand in Sweden will quickly get into a job. That is an example of this. We will move forward with several changes to meet the individual's conditions and needs so that they can enter the labour market more quickly. We've seen a lot of new arrivals in waiting position. They face an obstacle, and then it is a wait before it can be solved. Then there is an obstacle and a waiting, and an obstacle and a waiting. Something bad happens to people when they are not called upon with the skills they have. Time is an important factor. I realise, of course, that it will be difficult and that it is a major challenge. But I can't see it's any easier after three or four years.
i-59e3a63cf1224c43-241	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister. I assume that the Minister knows that she has such a product opposite her. I am pleased that the Minister sees that it takes time, is very strenuous and sometimes very painful. In the light of the experience I have, I can stand up here and explain that the Government's mandate in the future will not be easier. I have spoken in the past about the appointment of a responsible minister on the subject of integration and migration. The Government spoke of a low level of ambition. Whose? Who's got it? At the risk of allowing polemics in these critical moments for a country facing huge challenges, I would like at the same time and with respect for the moment to make a contribution. The government's decision not to have a person focused on these issues is not good. The hard work of the government, as the Minister has testified, will be facilitated if all issues come under a hat. This will mean that both the Government and the Government will not be affected by what I previously termed the curse of the commons: everyone's responsibility is nobody's responsibility.
i-59e3a63cf1224c43-245	Mr President, I would like to I agree with Sotiris Delis that it will not be easier in the future. We are facing a huge challenge. It is now acute in the refugee situation. But after a time when people get a residence permit, it's about integrating them, getting a foothold in Swedish society and being able to make a living through their own work. I fully share the view that we are facing huge challenges. Of course, if we could solve them with a reorganisation of the government posts, that would be a good thing. I'm afraid I don't think it's that simple. It will require a great many efforts by large parts of the government. I would like to thank you for the debate, which I think has been a good one. These are very important questions. It is not once and for all given how best to organize the government on the basis of the given challenges. I would also like to say to Mr Sotiris that the coordinated responsibility for the integration mission is not everyone's responsibility. The coordinating responsibility is mine.
i-59e3a63cf1224c43-249	Mr President, I would like to Jenny Petersson has asked me if I believe that the 90-day guarantee for young people is still the government's most important effort to combat youth unemployment and how many jobs the 90-day guarantee will generate. When the government took office last year, we inherited a worrying situation with unemployment that has stuck to a high level. Unemployment among young people (15-24 years) increased sharply during the previous government. In 2014, youth unemployment amounted to 23 per cent. However, it is important to know that unemployment among young people has now finally begun to fall.
i-59e3a63cf1224c43-251	When the government took office, it announced the progressive introduction of a 90-day guarantee for unemployed young people. The 90-day guarantee aims to set a lower limit on how long a young person can be unemployed before being offered a job, an action leading to a job or an education or training. This limit shall be progressively reduced to 90 days. In order to enable the 90-day guarantee, several different initiatives are being made in labour market policy. Training contracts and trainee jobs are implemented. The possibility of the higher study grant within the study funds for young people aged 20 to 24 returning to studies has been extended, and the opportunities for study motivation at folk high school have been permanent. In addition, the Delegation for Youth to Work (Dua) was established in December 2014 with the mission to promote, among other things, constructive and flexible collaboration between the Employment Service and municipalities to reduce youth unemployment. However, the 90-day guarantee is not a new labour market policy programme but should be considered as a way of reducing youth unemployment at an aggregate level to a maximum of 90 days in the long term. The government's reforms in the labour market and education sector make it possible for more unemployed people to get into education and training. Raising the individual's skills and knowledge strengthens the job opportunities of people who would otherwise find it difficult to get a job. Therefore, the government has chosen to invest in a new knowledge boost, among other things. The knowledge boost will give people the chance to learn to get a job, retrain to a new profession, gain access to higher education, further train themselves for better career opportunities and form themselves for increased participation in society or for personal development. The government reports in budget proposals and spring proposals on the overall assessment of how the government's reforms affect employment and unemployment. However, with regard to the impact of various reform proposals, it is important to point out that there is considerable uncertainty as to the extent to which and at what rate different measures affect employment and unemployment. The government's reforms are estimated to have a gradual impact on employment and unemployment over the forecast period. Overall, the measures proposed in the budget proposal are assessed as contributing to lower unemployment and higher employment in the coming years. At the same time, reality is rapidly changing before our eyes. The fact that so many people take refuge in Sweden from war and oppression radically changes the conditions. The fact that Sweden's population will grow rapidly as a result of the large number of asylum seekers has an impact both on the labour force and on unemployment. In the short term, it poses challenges for Sweden, but in the longer term it offers opportunities for Sweden.
i-59e3a63cf1224c43-256	Mr President, I would like to Those of you who follow the debate through stands, television or the web! This is the second debate that I and the Minister for Labour have in this House today. In the previous debate, the Minister for Labour concluded by saying that it is not through the Riksdag that she works with reforms or laws, but through the Employment Service. That is why this debate is apt, because my question was: how many jobs will there be, according to the Minister for Employment, with regard to the 90-day guarantee? How many jobs will the guarantee generate? Since the Minister for Labour works directly through the Employment Service and since this is under the Employment Service, I really hope to get an answer to the question. It is the 90-day guarantee for young people with training contracts and trainee services, as well as the additional services for the long-term unemployed, that has been presented as the reforms and policies that underpin the government's efforts to reach the EU's lowest unemployment rate by 2020, which we talked about. That is, for that matter, the basis of government policy in the whole area. That is why I think it would be appropriate to have an answer to this in this debate. The Minister for Labour is also pleased in this debate that youth unemployment is falling. So do I. There is no reason to be against the fall in unemployment. On the other hand, my criticism and concern relate to the job proposals or non-job proposals that exist in this area. I can ask one more question: which of the employment ministers' proposals is contributing to this development? There were two questions, Mr President.
i-59e3a63cf1224c43-262	Mr President, I would like to I don't know how Jenny Petersson thinks jobs are being created. But jobs are created by economic growth – the existence of public and private employers in need of increased labour and therefore need to employ. Hopefully, they will then be able to find workers that match the needs of employers, not least in terms of skills. The role of labour market policy is to equip people to take on the job vacancies and to help employers find the right person for the job vacancies. When labour market policies work well, a well-functioning labour market is created where job vacancies can be filled with relatively short vacancies. In the case of young people, it is not least important to equip them to take on the job vacancies. But it is also important to work closer to employers so that they also get their eyes open and find the right people, and sometimes find a person who doesn't fit into the box but who fits into the workplace. Training contracts and trainee jobs are new measures that the government has proposed precisely to equip young people. As far as training contracts are concerned, this applies in particular to those young people who do not have upper secondary skills to achieve this. In the case of trainee jobs, it is about training young people in the many shortages in the labour market. The government is also making major educational efforts. In addition, there are of course many other tools in the already existing toolbox at Arbetsförmedlingen. The government's efforts to achieve and ensure a fall in unemployment are partly about the new tools, partly – and I would say the most important – about a more flexible use of labour market policies in general. There will be greater trust in the professional employment services, less regulatory control and more opportunity for the work mediators to make the right assessment and put in the right measures in the meeting with the unemployed and in the meeting with the employer. We have changed the Arbetsförmedlingen's way of working to work in a completely different way close to employers and to respond to employers' needs. We have started a very extensive and deep cooperation with Sweden's municipalities because they have a very important role especially for those young people who lack upper secondary school skills. It is gratifying that almost all of Sweden's municipalities – 286 of the 290 – have chosen to enter into this cooperation and that over 100 of them have entered prematurely with their agreements. There has been a review of how municipalities and the Public Employment Service should ensure that everything is done but that it is not double-worked. All young people between the ages of 16 and 24 who are unemployed or who are not studying have been tracked down and surveyed. These changes have been made by the government, and they are now beginning to come into place. Of course they'll have an effect. It thus helps young people to take on the job vacancies that are now emerging.
i-59e3a63cf1224c43-269	Mr President, I would like to Those of you who follow the debate can note that I did not receive an answer to my two questions. But I can answer Minister Ylva Johansson when it comes to jobs. There is a clear dividing line between the Moderates and the Social Democrats when it comes to where jobs are considered to be created. That is why we differ in terms of enterprise policy and fiscal policy. We had a debate here earlier on RUT and ROT. That is why there are so clear dividing lines. The Social Democrats and the left-wing government make it clear to companies that it should be difficult to start and be established in Sweden. It should be difficult for entrepreneurs to realize their dreams and goals. Let us return to this debate. My question was: how many jobs will the Minister for Labour's 90-day guarantee generate? I didn't get an answer, but I can give you some answers or some facts in this area. Recently SVT reported that only one of the 32,000 promised trainee services has been filled. What's going on there? At one point Ylva Johansson stops by saying that she is delighted that youth unemployment is falling. Then she tilts over and says that the policy of the Alliance is bad. Yes, Ylva Johansson, much of the Alliance's policy still applies. Your budget will go through later this autumn because you have a majority in favour of it. The Minister for Labour says that the Arbetsförmedlingen's way of working is starting to come into place. But then it is even more important that I get answers to which of the job proposals of the Minister for Employment are contributing to development, i.e. that youth unemployment is falling.
i-59e3a63cf1224c43-274	Mr President, I would like to Jenny Petersson repeats on a number of occasions that she does not think she has received answers to her questions. I think that Jenny Petersson has received answers to her questions, and I also think that the Minister for Employment is worthy of praise for the educational and patient way in which she has tried to answer Jenny Petersson's questions. As you ask, you get answers. I guess that's what the Minister for Labour was trying to do. I wonder how Jenny Petersson thought when she asked how many jobs the 90-day guarantee will generate. What did she expect to answer the question? It could be interesting. I could possibly screw up a little bit to try to understand Jenny Petersson's thinking. I cannot answer how many jobs the 90-day guarantee will generate, but I still think that the Minister for Labour has well made clear how the labour market works. If, with a new Social Democratic policy, we make the functioning of the labour market better, it will, Mr President, create jobs. Jobs create jobs. That is a well-known view. When the old government's policy did not work, it was exactly the opposite. It was a policy in which the number of unemployed grew while the number of job vacancies increased. It was perhaps 70 000 – 80 000 real jobs in real companies that were not filled every year because people were not trained or had the experience that employers needed. The jobs were not filled, and the 70 000 - 80 000 jobs were wasted with the old moderate politics. But additional jobs were wasted with the old moderate policy because every job itself requires inputs, transport services and so on. If it is possible to maintain a job, new jobs will be created. In this way, Mr President, it is possible to answer Jenny Petersson's question that, with the help of a new social democratic policy, it is possible to equip young people to take the jobs that exist. Not only the job vacancies will be filled, but those jobs will in turn create new jobs. Precisely how many they will be, we will see in the future, but when the functioning of the labour market is improved through this policy, when the matching becomes better, when employers are given the opportunity to fill the jobs they have with trained people, it will create more jobs. I have endeavoured to understand what Jenny Petersson wants answers to, and this may possibly satisfy Jenny Petersson's questions in addition to the very patient and educational answers that Jenny Petersson received from the Minister for Labour.
i-59e3a63cf1224c43-280	Mr President, I would like to I replied to Jenny Petersson in my first speech on whether a particular labour market policy creates jobs or not. I have also answered the question of how government policies affect the labour market and labour market policies, not least for young people. I've already answered the question. Anyone who wishes can read the answer once more in the Minutes. I'll also answer the question about trainee jobs. Trainee jobs are not a new kind of job. They're an educational initiative. It is about educating people, in this case young people, to those professions where there is a shortage. These are nurses, crane drivers, vehicle mechanics and several other professions. These are the areas where employers currently do not get trained staff. In a situation where there are many unemployed young people, it is a wise policy to provide young people with the training that will enable them not only to find jobs but also to remain permanently in the labour market while at the same time enabling employers to solve their problems. Trainee jobs' most important agreement between SKL and Kommunal was completed last week. I'm glad. This means that there are now opportunities for training in a large area where there is a great shortage, namely nurses. I imagine that there will be a number of training initiatives in the field of shortage professions. I would like to point out that what has happened over the past year is that youth unemployment is falling rapidly. This is particularly true of young people with upper secondary skills, to whom the trainee job initiative is directed. Of course, it is gratifying that many young people get jobs even without labour market policies. At the same time, there are major challenges with new groups that we have seen not least this autumn. This applies to people who have fled to Sweden and who will be granted a residence permit in Sweden. Many of them are certainly in need of vocational training leading to jobs in those professions where there is a shortage. There may be reason for the government to return to how trainee jobs should be folded to new groups.
i-59e3a63cf1224c43-285	Mr President, I would like to Whether I want it or not is the fact that there have been elections and the government is red-green. It is the government and the Minister for Labour who is responsible for the issues. I, in opposition, must relate to that and examine. Before the Minister for Labour became Minister for Labour, she said she'd get the jobs. That is why I think the issue is very relevant, especially when the 90-day guarantee for young people – which is built up with training contracts and trainee services as well as additional services for the unemployed – is presented as the main elements of achieving the lowest unemployment rate in Europe 2020. Then the question is relevant: How many jobs will the 90-day guarantee according to the Minister for Labour generate? Previous statements have been that the guarantee should be valid. But this can also be seen as that jobs will be removed from the statistics and that jobs will not increase. It could be a way to go. That is why I will continue to ask questions and to examine the government and the Minister in this area and also the proposals that are or are not put forward.
i-59e3a63cf1224c43-288	Mr President, I would like to As I said, Jenny Petersson has received answers to her questions. One might wonder if one could screw the question one more time. It may possibly be the subject of a new debate at some later time, because now Jenny Petersson has no opportunity to answer that. What I would find interesting to look at is how many jobs were lost by extension when the old moderate government prevented young people from taking action in the first 90 days. I think that is a very relevant and exciting question. Of course, there were a great many young people affected by the old policy. Now we have a government that ensures not only that efforts are made for young people immediately, but also that they will have them within 90 days. In the past, young people were guaranteed no action at the beginning of their unemployment. How many jobs, Mr President, did it lose? It is clear that it would be interesting to ask IFAU or anyone else if there is any possibility of finding a method to make some kind of assessment of how many jobs Sweden lost during that time. On the other hand, we know roughly how many young people were betrayed – 100 000 unemployed young people. We have figures on that, Mr President, so that mathematics is a little simpler. But perhaps it would be interesting to try to sort out how many jobs the old government's old policy led to the loss of Sweden. Some 100 000 young people in unemployment – we know that figure, and it is frightening.
i-59e3a63cf1224c43-293	Mr President, I would like to Of course, the opposition will examine the government and intervene the ministers. That is the task of the opposition. I'll answer the question one more time. The government focuses on the jobs in everything it does. Labour market policy does not create jobs, but labour market policy can ensure that job vacancies are created and that people are equipped to take on the job vacancies. That's how it works. Today we have a record number of vacancies in Sweden. We've never had as many vacancies as we have right now. But many employers find it difficult to find people with the right skills to take them. The wake-ups are high. Jobs are available for a relatively long period of time before they are added. They may not be added at all. This in itself costs new jobs, because when a company wants to recruit a key person – say that you need a vehicle mechanic – and does not get hold of that person, it means that the company may have to turn down an order that in turn could have generated new jobs. A poorly functioning labour market costs jobs. A well-functioning labour market creates jobs. Labour market policy can create jobs by ensuring that the labour market works better, together with education and training policies that have exactly the same role – not creating jobs but providing the conditions for growth and new jobs. That's how the government works. Mr President, I would like to Jenny Petersson said that there are clear dividing lines in employment policy, and that is it. There are also clear dividing lines in labour market policy. One could briefly describe them as follows: Should we lower the price of work, or should we increase the value of people?
i-59e3a63cf1224c43-299	Mr President, I would like to Jenny Petersson has asked me why another previously announced case from the Minister for Labour is missing and why the review of the Employment Service is not resumed despite announcements from the Riksdag and my statements to that effect. The Swedish Parliament decided in June 2015 to announce that the Government should resume work on carrying out a broad review of the Swedish Public Employment Service as soon as possible. The Government shares the view that the Public Employment Service needs to be developed in order to better contribute to a more well-functioning labour market. Matching work needs to be improved and adapted to the challenges of today's and future labour markets. The government has begun work to change the governance of the agency, which in several respects has been too detailed. A number of measures have been taken to enable policies to be adapted to the individual needs of job seekers and employers and to improve interaction between the Public Employment Service and other actors. The labour market policy framework has been simplified and clarified, and the Government intends to continue this work. The Government has also appointed the Delegation for Young People to work, which will, among other things, promote government and municipal cooperation and make proposals for possible measures to improve it. In addition to the work initiated by the Government, Arbetsförmedlingen has started extensive renewal work. The Government has also commissioned Statskontoret to analyse and make proposals regarding the development of the agency's internal management, governance and follow-up. The Employment Service cannot carry out the work for a well-functioning labour market on its own. On the other hand, other actors will continue to operate on behalf of Arbetsförmedlingen and there are also many other actors that affect the labour market in different ways, including other government agencies, municipalities, county councils, social partners, private business and civil society organisations. With better interaction between these actors, society's combined resources can be better exploited. The way in which the government's commitment and the Public Employment Service's mandate should be designed in order to better address the challenges of the future labour market needs to be further analysed. The Government intends to set up an investigation into these issues.
i-59e3a63cf1224c43-307	Mr President, I would like to Perhaps this is the time to say half a year, because in the answer, Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson said that the government is going to set up an investigation. It is high time, as I said, that the government and the Minister for Labour respect the Riksdag, because, as the Minister for Labour says, the Swedish Parliament has stated in two announcements to the Government that it should resume the review, or that there should be a review, of the Employment Service. There are strong reasons for doing this review. There has not been a major review in the last 20 years. I asked this question or the interpellation to the Minister for Labour in the light of these two announcements and the Minister's own statement in Almedalen earlier this year. Then the Minister for Labour said that a directive for an investigation would come in the autumn. It was a welcome message then, just as this is now. But nothing has happened. I have not seen that anything has come in the autumn. So I thought the time had come to ask what is happening in this area. I can only say that I have received an answer. It will happen, and directives are being worked on in this area. There have been two announcements and two statements by the Minister – the one in Almedalen and this today. I think it is high time and important to get a little hum about when the investigation comes. If it does not come this autumn, will it come in the spring? If it doesn't come in the spring, I'll follow it up too. The opposition is supposed to review and follow up. The Minister says in his reply that Statskontoret has been tasked with analysing and making proposals on the internal governance and management of the Swedish Public Employment Service. I just want to say that I think it's a little tight. It does not meet the two announcements or the need for scrutiny and review by the Authority as required. The Alliance government had set up an investigation. If you want to supplement the directives that are now under way, it is a tip to check the proposals that were there. It was, as I said, an investigation that was under way or, more accurately, had been launched. I will stay there and thank the Minister for the answer, but I am still curious about when I can expect this.
i-59e3a63cf1224c43-317	Mr President, I would like to I understand Jenny Petersson's question. However, when I was asked in Almedalen how quickly new directives could be produced, I could not imagine what autumn we had before us, that the Government Office would go into crisis organisation and that my State Secretary would have a responsible role in this. Of course, this has had a considerable impact on the work of the Ministry of Labour. There are directives for a review of the Employment Service. We have already given a mission to Statskontoret regarding internal management, governance and follow-up. That's why we don't double-work. The new investigation will have a broader perspective and a little bit try to look around the corner and see what challenges labour market policy and the Public Employment Service are facing and what should be the role of the state in this. I can tell Jenny Petersson that I will shortly be making study trips both to England and to Australia to study their reforms in employment services and labour market policies, partly as a basis for the future investigation.
i-59e3a63cf1224c43-320	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson! It's true, I'm in opposition asking for results. The government will soon be in its second year and it is up to you, the Minister for Employment, to make things happen. I hope that the next time I go shopping for Christmas presents, after next autumn, something has happened and that I do not have to stand here with the same question. I hope that something concrete is actually happening. It is gratifying that the Minister for Labour is taking note of what it looks like in other countries in terms of the design of the employment services and how to work. I expect, and I know, that the Minister for Labour will lift his eyes. It is important to get other views and thoughts about how we can do it in Sweden. I do not need to take advantage of the opportunity for a final speech, but just want to add that I hope that the government will follow the Riksdag and come back on this. Anything else is unacceptable.
i-59e3a63cf1224c43-324	Mr President, I would like to I can assure Jenny Petersson that something concrete is happening with the Arbetsförmedlingen, and that is happening now. There's gonna be an investigation. It's a promise I make. I share the view that it is important to look abroad, to learn and take the impression of experiences from other countries, especially from those countries that face labour market policy challenges that may be similar to ours. But even when there are significant differences, there is often something to learn. I have recently been to both Austria and Germany and there to visit employment services, and, as I said, I will shortly be travelling to England and Australia to learn their experiences. There'll be an investigation, Jenny Petersson.
i-59e3a63cf1224c43-328	Mr President, I would like to Håkan Svenneling has asked me whether I intend to abolish the last privilege of the nobility, abolish the last fidei Commission and make it possible to redeem historic leases. Let me begin by saying that I, too, believe that there are strong reasons of principle in favour of the closure of the fidei Commission. It was also the starting point for the 1963 Law on the Dismantling of Fidei Commissions. The Settlement Act is based on the idea that the gradual phasing out of fidei commissary is preferable in order to avoid the significant disadvantages of a social, economic and cultural nature that may often be caused by decommissioning. Since the law was introduced, many fidei Commissions have been phased out. Today, it is estimated that just under 30 Fideikommiss will remain to be decommissioned. The Fidei Commission is therefore in liquidation under the regime laid down in the 1963 Resolution Act and is moving in the right direction. As the Riksdag has stated on several occasions, there is no reason now to make changes to that order. On the question of the possibility of redeeming historic leases, I note that a right to redemption has been examined on several occasions. The investigations have not led to any legislation. As a reason, it has been stated, among other things, that the number of historic leases has decreased and that there can be no urgent public interest in a right of withdrawal. A regulated right to redemption has been deemed to be contrary to property protection in the government form. There is therefore no legislative work in progress on this issue. However, I continue to monitor developments in the area of leases.
i-59e3a63cf1224c43-333	Mr President, I would like to Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson is very involved in day-to-day issues, and with this interpellation I would like to give him the opportunity to debate an issue that has been debated for several hundred years. The reason why the interpellation is so interesting to make to the Government is that the new Social Democratic and environmental party government has not yet given any information as to what policy they want to pursue around the fidei commiss and historical leases. There are today individual MPs from Morgan Johansson's party, the Social Democrats, who want to see change. That's why I wonder what the government wants to do. I would like to thank the Government for its answer. The nobility is a small group that for centuries has had privileges in front of the rest of us, but in the 20th century there has been a process of democratisation that has meant the abolition of privilege after privilege. In 1280 the Swedish noble system was introduced. At first, the nobility consisted of a kind of royal mercenaries who received a reverse salary, that is, they did not have to pay taxes. Then they were paid in the form of seized land. Privileges were laid down in Law 1626 and were not effectively abolished until 1866. In 2003, the Swedish Parliament abolished the privileges of the knighthood and the nobility, making the Riddarhuset an ordinary association. Many then said that it was the last privilege of the nobility that disappeared. However, that is not quite true. A small group of landowners still have the opportunity to circumvent inheritance legislation and legally make money from the work and investments of others. The Swedish nobility is still well. Fideikommiss means that, because of a provision in a gift letter or will, a person holds in the property a kind of restricted right to dispose of it. Usually a will has been written concerning the property, that it should be inherited for an unlimited period by the oldest male breast heir in the next generation and that the property may not be borrowed, sold or otherwise reduced. In the 18th century, the creation of a fide complaint was a way of keeping property undivided in the case of successions and eliminating the law of succession. The property structure often made the very eldest son a new master while the daughters, together with the younger sons, were left without inheritance. Despite the unfair construction of the fidei Commission and its patriarchal character, I believe that we can now understand the purpose of the instigator, since other methods of keeping the property intact at the time of the successions were lacking. Today, however, the situation is different. Today's limited liability company legislation allows for the holdings to be held together independently of the successions, and therefore most of the FIDEI committees have been wound up. In Sweden, however, we are very late compared to many other countries. Since 1810 it is not permitted by law to establish new fidei commissions in real estate, and since 1930 neither in movable property. In 1963, the Parliament adopted the Act on the Dismantling of Fidei Complaint. The law will put an end to a fide instance of maladministration in the death of the Commissioner. In exceptional cases, however, the Government may decide to extend the fidei Commission. The reason may be particularly cultural-historical values or there may be other reasons. Former governments have allowed extensions in six cases, in which case the argument has been, above all, that it was about cultural treasures and important environments. The retention of patriarchal legislation that overrides current inheritance legislation seems absurd from the perspective of equality and gender equality. The privileges of the nobility have been abolished, but we see that remains remain. By phasing out the remaining Fidei Commission, we can eliminate even the last remnants of the old feudal society. I wonder whether the Minister intends to wind up the last fidei Commission and whether the Minister thinks that the decommissioning law works. Is there a risk that the six extensions that have been made will help to erode the ambitions of the decommissioning act? I wonder what the Minister's position is on extending cultural history.
i-59e3a63cf1224c43-341	Mr President, I would like to I think Håkan Svenneling and I have the same basic idea. We think that this system is wrong, that it is an antiquated remnant from an old age and that the focus is on the liquidation of the fidei Commission. Perhaps we have different views, because we belong to different parties, on how to proceed with certain changes in society. The Left Party has a little more revolutionary roots and may want to take rapid steps while the Social Democracy is based on social transformation on a reformist path. Then it may take a little longer to achieve different societal goals. I think that's the line that wins in the long run, because then it gets really done and you don't risk anything else. It's moving in the right direction. In 1963, the legislation we have today on the winding-up of the Fidei Commission was introduced. At that time, there were 216 Fidei Commissars. Today there are some thirty left, five of which are being wound up. It is possible, as it were, in the right direction. We see a phase-out. As Håkan Svenneling points out, there is an opportunity for an extension. It is in exceptional cases, for example, if one can see that there is a particularly great cultural historical value where it may be inappropriate to promote the division of property. When such questions come to the table of the government, we have to take a case-by-case approach, and I will of course be very careful in those assessments to see that they really live up to the requirements of the legislation in this regard. In the second part of his interpellation, Håkan Svenneling raises the question of historical leases. It is the same thing there: we see how the number of historic leases is decreasing and has fallen sharply, by more than a third, since the 80s and onwards. This has mainly been due to the fact that the church, the state and Uppsala University have allowed tenants to purchase property. The question that arises is whether can force redemption. In the light of the form of government and the European Convention that we have to live by, my assessment is no. Property protection in Chapter 2. Section 15 is designed in such a way that one can only force a change when it comes to separating people from their property if there is an urgent public interest behind this. The investigations and assessments of both Social Democratic and bourgeois governments have previously pointed out that it cannot be said here that it is of urgent public interest, and therefore such a law has not been implemented either. The Left Party is also behind the Constitution and property protection in Chapter 2. Section 15, so I assume that there is basically also support that this is how to look at it. As has already been said, this is the right direction, but new legislation on the right of free circulation is therefore not up to date in this context.
i-59e3a63cf1224c43-349	Mr President, I would like to I believe that I and Minister Morgan Johansson agree that it was the right decision to share the party in 1917, because the Left Party and the Social Democrats have since had some different approaches to how we want to change the world. I think it is interesting to discuss the cases that have been, and I will come back to that a little later. What we see when Morgan Johansson says, on a case-by-case basis, is that if we have very many cases, it will be so that we devastate inheritance legislation. I would like the Minister to problematise a little about what it means for legislation if you take many decisions that go in a different direction from what the legislation says and it is thus eliminated. Is there no focus on the policy that the government wants to pursue in order to enforce the laws? I'd like to hear about that. The Minister also raises the issue of historic leases, and I would like to come back to that. Historical leases refer to land leased by the same family for several generations for agricultural purposes. The question of historic leases, like the fidei commiss, has been on the table for over a hundred years. The problem was highlighted in the Emigration investigation in 1908. As a result, the first Social Democratic Minister Edén – Branting introduced a conditional right of release in 1919, the so-called single-seater law. It took part in introducing this first step in a new direction, but it was also involved in abolishing that legislation 48 years later, with the reason that it wanted to favour companies and large farms on the basis of the then dominant view that agricultural and forestry policy was about large forestry. In 1989, the Parliament took a step towards a new reform with the decision to introduce a right of release. This led to the establishment of a state inquiry, and in its 1991 interim report, Historical leases, a unanimous committee presented a proposal for a law on the redemption of historic leases. However, no proposal for a law on redemption was ever put forward by the government in connection with dealing with other issues from the investigation in a bill. I believe that giving the right to redeem farmers, who today have to lease the land that they have used for generations, is an essential social issue of a civil law nature. It is unfair that farmers are not in a position to acquire the security and legal certainty that the ownership of the leased farm would provide. There is an imbalance in the contractual relationship between the landowner and the tenant, where the tenant is the weaker party. The landowner generally has more financial resources to run a dispute and often better legal knowledge than the tenant. In practice, many of the people who rent this type of land are still farmers. In many cases, too, they do not have the opportunity to take other measures, such as shooting wild boars and geese that destroy crops, but often the landowner charges for letting other people hunt on the ground. As the Minister is concerned, it is legally difficult to redeem historic leases. I share the view of the Minister of Justice on this. The errors are not in the laws that we have passed in modern times to protect property rights, but they are historical, often brought about by political decisions hundreds of years ago. That is why we need a policy that tackles historical injustices and brings us all into modern legislation. Of course, I think the landowner should be paid. But why should we maintain a feudal society? For me it hardly has any cultural historical value. In practice, the possibility for the government to extend a fide breach also leads to the possibility that any tenants will never be able to obtain the right to redeem property that is part of a fide instance where an extension has been granted.
i-59e3a63cf1224c43-361	Mr President, I would like to If I'm going to sum up, the focus is to phase out the fidei Commission. It's moving in the right direction. The number has fallen down to a level where we are talking about some thirty of whom five are being wound up. It is not the case that the valve contained in the legislation undermines the legislation, but it is part of the legislation. You should be aware of that. The valve in the legislation is there to extend the fidei Commission in some cases, and if such a question comes on the table of the government, we will of course examine it very carefully on a case-by-case basis to see that it meets the criteria needed to extend it. However, the focus is that this scheme should be phased out. The question of historic leases has been tried several times in a number of investigations, moreover both by bourgeois and social-democratic governments. In view of the nature of the protection of property, I find it very difficult to introduce such a redemption law. It is basically a question of society not being able in any way to go about the property of individuals and seize it. Even if the purpose can never be so good, you still have to have some clear rules as to what will apply. That being said, it must be an urgent public interest in order to move forward with this type of legislation. Both bourgeois governments and social democratic governments have said that no, this is not being fulfilled in these situations. Moreover, when the last investigation was carried out and sent for referral, there was no broad support for such a buy-out regime. For example, the Federation of Swedish Farmers representing a number of tenant associations in the country considered that there was no need for a right of free purchase. Thus, even in the group that can be considered to be concerned, there is no strong pressure on the issue. We must ensure that we live up to the property protection that exists in Chapter 2. Section 15, the form of government. Our assessment is that we cannot implement such legislation with less than that it would be contrary to this protection and possibly also to the European Convention. There is therefore no legislative work going on in the government either. Of course, one would be pleased to see whether it would be possible for more people to buy out, just as the state has done, as the church has done and as Uppsala University has done. In this respect too, things have gone in the right direction in recent decades.
i-59e3a63cf1224c43-368	Mr President, I would like to The privileges of the nobility have been abolished, but the remains remain. If one were to introduce a right to redeem historic leases and to dismantle the remaining fidei commissary, the last remnants of the old feudal society would also be phased out. I think there is a general interest in abolishing feudal society. It feels very strange that in 2015 you can stand and talk about things that hang around since feudal society's time. The Socialist and environmental party government has proudly declared that it is a feminist government. I wonder what it commits to. Is it okay, then, to circumvent inheritance laws so that daughters become inheritable? Unfortunately, the track record of Social Democratic politicians on this issue is not very good. First of all, our current Foreign Minister, Margot Wallström, was then in the role of Minister for Culture. She granted extension of the fidei commission Cronstedts Fullerö outside Västerås in violation of the deceased's will. In 1998 it was Marita Ulvskog's turn – she was then Minister of Culture; today she is a Member of the European Parliament. She made a decision to extend the fidei commission Erstavik in violation of the will that had been left behind and that followed the liquidation law. On October 10, 2002, Marita Marita was back on track. This time she extended Övedsklosters fideikommiss. Eleven days later Morgan Johansson took office as Minister for the first time. The last decision was taken in 2006. Then it was about Björnstorp and Svenstorp in Skåne. At that time, the decision was made by moderate Minister Lena Adelsohn Liljeroth, who had just taken office. But the matter had been prepared for a long time by the Social Democratic Government. There remains, therefore, concern that the current Social Democratic Government will not pursue the aims of the decommissioning act for fidei commissary. And it is obvious that you do not want to do anything about historical leases. Finally, I would like to quote an old Member of Parliament from the Left Party called Jörn Svensson – he was also the first in the Swedish parliament to propose a partnership law. If the President will admit it, I would be happy to get this quote: Now, at last, something has to be done! Sweden's landlords have waited 100 years for their legal position to change radically and social justice to be done. They have a claim to have reasonable security in nutrition and housing. Of course, a civilised state power should stand on their side and not on the side of the lords. The principle should be: Earth for the user. .....................................................
i-59e3a63cf1224c43-374	Mr President, I would like to Of course you can engage in rhetoric. But the truth is that left-wing parties are also behind the form of government. Left-wing parties are also behind the constitutions. Left-wing parties are also behind property protection, Chapter 2. Section 15. I was in the constitutional investigation that developed the form of government that is currently in force. There was no reservation on this point by the Left Party. One cannot, I think, say in one breath that one stands behind legislation and in the next breath say: Let us reinterpre it, so that the old order will no longer apply. You must be able to show that there is a strong public interest in being able to seize or separate people from their property. This question does not live up to. It's as simple as that. Not only have I said so, but previous governments have also said so. Of course, I hope that this can continue to go in the right direction, as it now does by having the opportunity to buy out. But the kind of legislation that Håkan Svenneling is asking for, as I said, we are not working with. It's the same with the Fidei Commission. The phase-out should, of course, continue. However, it must be assessed on a case-by-case basis under the law in force today. I think that in such matters and in many other matters you should sometimes be a little careful about how to step. It is very easy to burn in the rhetoric and say: Now we are going to do it, and now we are going to do this. The consequences of one's actions must also be taken into account. Perhaps this is a background to the separation of our parties in 1917.
i-59e3a63cf1224c43-380	Mr President, I would like to Mathias Sundin has asked me if I and the government intend to initiate a Swedish strategy for data centres. Let me begin by emphasising that digitalisation is driving structural change in the economy and affecting all parts of society. Sweden is and has for many years been a world-leading IT nation and has good opportunities to seize the opportunities of digitalisation. Sweden has one of the world's most developed IT industries and one of the most exciting start-up scenes. We have a well-developed digital infrastructure, a high IT maturity of the population and often come high in international comparisons of the degree of digitalisation of society. Digitalisation helps to make all parts of society more efficient. It leads to job losses but also to the creation of new ones. The technology shift is making new demands, and changes in education as well as rules will be needed. In order to manage increasing amounts of data, the need for data centres worldwide is also increasing. In October, the Government received the report from the Report on Sector-neutral and Competitive Energy Tax on Electricity. The study has examined how electricity is taxed in different sectors and proposed, among other things, lower taxation of electricity consumed in large data centres. The report of the inquiry is currently being referred. It is likely that the global expansion of data centres will accelerate. The Government welcomes the establishment of data centres throughout Sweden, and to enable investments in this area, Business Sweden is engaged in investment-promoting work on behalf of the Government. Added to this is the important work done by actors at local and regional level. Together, this creates an attractive environment for investments in data centres in Sweden.
i-59e3a63cf1224c43-385	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. Me and my parliamentary colleague Maria Weimer visited Luleå a few weeks ago to look at Facebook's server hall, or data center, as it is called. It is a huge plant that is partly reminiscent of traditional basic industries. It's a big facility. You spend a lot of electricity. It's a lot of space. It's a little cleaner there, isn't it? Otherwise, there are quite a few similarities with the basic industry, which is also high-tech in many ways. When Facebook established itself in Sweden it became a world news. It was their first establishment outside the United States. Why did they choose Sweden? It was mostly the cold climate that was highlighted, that you automatically get cooling. But it is about many more factors than that it is a bit chilly in Luleå and in Sweden. We had a meeting with Facebook and their director of energy, which is talking enough from the aluminium industry, which also spends huge amounts of energy. They described the advantages of Sweden in addition to the cold climate, especially the stable supply of electricity, that electricity is carbon-free and that the electricity grid works very well. And local collaboration is of course very important. There have been several data centers up there. In Boden there are KNC Miner who breaks bitcoin and Hydro 66. An important research is underway up there too. It has organized itself in The Node Pole to attract more data centres and be well prepared for those who want to get there, but what it calls for is a national strategy for Sweden around data centres. It is said that this is not a chance just for Luleå and the northern parts, but for the whole of Sweden and the whole Nordic region, for that matter. Apple has a large data center, a mega data center, in Denmark. Google has one in Finland. So there is a chance not only in the north. There you are very far ahead, but there are chances for other parts of Sweden as well. As I said, a national strategy was called for. It is about the government giving a mandate either to Business Sweden or to any other authority to work with this as a national strategy. The previous government worked actively on this and gave the mission to Business Sweden about investments and so on, but it may need more than that. Sweden is far ahead. We have had a head start, but other countries are very in the pipeline and have understood that it is a giant industry that is emerging. The forecasts now available say that in the world until 2020, in just four years' time, 700 data centres will appear in the size of Facebook in Luleå. It is estimated that if Sweden is really at it maybe 30 – 40 of these could end up in Sweden. You don't know anything about that, but at least we have a good chance. There are thousands of jobs we are talking about as a factor. But it is of course also very good for the brand Sweden as IT- and start-up nation. Will the government in any way push forward such a national strategy?
i-59e3a63cf1224c43-394	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mathias Sundin, for the interpellation and visit to Luleå! I hope it was rewarding. I have visited the huge facility there myself. It's pretty impressive to see it. I note that Luleå is now appointed Sweden's growth municipality in 2015, and it is well deserved. It works very actively to create strategic collaborations with universities and higher education institutions and with other countries. Facebook's establishment in Luleå was actually the starting point for several Nordic countries' attempts to attract these large data halls to their countries and regions. Just as Mathias Sundin says, it is not only the cold that determines that the business is located here. It is clear that it is an effect that you can reduce the costs of cooling the plant a little, but the great advantage that Sweden has is that we have a very stable and safe electrical system, which has high security of supply. In addition, much of it is renewable. In principle, the energy supply that takes place is completely green. It is an exciting world we live in, where Sweden has great conditions. The mission that Business Sweden has is the Swedish Datacenter Initiative, which is broad. They have partners and work with investment promotion. They work with local and regional actors involved in this. I believe that this has brought together the promotion work in a completely different way. In the new export strategy that I have also presented, investment promotion is one of the priorities for work with Business Sweden. It got a little bit between the chairs when you redo and created Business Sweden. Then the promotion of investment became a little down-priority. I think it was a mistake. It may not have been thought that this would be the case, but it has become more topical now. I would also like to say that in addition to energy policy and fiscal policy, where the investigation has now come up with its proposal to significantly reduce the electricity tax for these plants, Sweden's access to expertise in this area, knowledge of English, our IT maturity in general and our international profile, with open data flows in Europe and internationally, are important parts when international companies see Sweden as a very interesting country to invest in. I am happy to cooperate with Mathias Sundin and regional and local actors in Sweden to do even more, but now that we have an investment promotion run by Business Sweden, I think it is good to gather as much expertise and work as possible there so that you do not split up the work too much. It is important to be a bit strategic when you succeed in this. Above all, like Mathias Sundin, I see enormous opportunities for this to grow over the next few years. It will be decided in the coming years where these investments will take place. The fact that the investigation is now in place, I think, sends a very important signal to those actors who have been a little hesitant, because other countries have changed their tax structure.
i-59e3a63cf1224c43-401	Mr President, I would like to The tax is, I think, absolutely crucial. If we do not reduce it to the level of the basic industry, many of them will probably choose other countries. This is precisely what makes me think we need to tighten up this work: call it a national strategy or something else, but we need to do more! The Alliance government gave this assignment to Business Sweden, who is actively working on this. Some local initiatives have been taken– I mentioned The Node Pole. There is an opportunity for very many parts of the country to attract large data centres, but in addition to them, hundreds or thousands of smaller data centres, which in themselves are large even if they do not belong to the megaclass. I think the government needs to do more here than is being done right now. Other countries, as I said, have reduced the tax. They're really on their toes now. It described Facebook to us. Now Facebook has already established itself in Sweden and is expanding here, but they told us that other countries are also on the go. It is understandable that this is a huge industry that is emerging. The forecast of 700 new ones is only valid for the next four years, and development will not stop after that. If we become a hub, a centre, it can mean a lot of jobs and investments in Sweden. I don't think talking is enough. Mikael Damberg is happy to highlight the Swedish start-up sector, and incredibly good things are happening there. We're very far ahead. We are the third country in the world to have the most unicorns, i.e. billion dollar companies. Stockholm is second per capita after Silicon Valley. These are incredible achievements that are being carried out in these companies. Mikael Damberg has been out promising start-up policy from the government, but there has not been a delivery yet. The person who would be hired to work on this should, as I have heard, be in place only in the first quarter of 2016, and it is soon a quarter since it was promised. Even if you follow all the recruitment procedures, it shouldn't take six months to get such a person in place, right? Of course, this is not crucial for start-up Sweden's development, but if the government goes out and says that you should do things, the companies want it to happen quickly too, because in their industry it goes a long way. Simplification of work permits for people outside the EU is also what companies are asking for. We currently have a lot to deal with when it comes to migration of a completely different kind, but there the government managed to deal with the tightening up of work permits that were looked at. Then I think that one must also be able to look at simplifications, and that is what Mikael Damberg has said one should do. When does it really get started? Speaking of signals, the government's investigators in the taxi industry have said that a company like Uber might be banned. That's the wrong signal. We definitely need to keep track of the market, but I don't think we should send that kind of signal.
i-59e3a63cf1224c43-408	Mr President, I would like to Facebook has not only made its first investment but also several consequential investments in Sweden. You do this because you think it has been good to establish yourself here and you see opportunities to expand. These investments were even made before tax investigations were completed. This says something about Facebook's long-term engagement in this area. I have had contact with several, also international, large companies. I have explained Sweden's advantages and welcomed them to make investments. We know that international big companies are currently making investments not only on the basis of a parameter, but they are weighing it up and seeing which countries are attractive. We are definitely one of the countries they always look at. It will be very important for Sweden to win more of these investments, and then I think that the focus should be on investment promotion and focus even more on it, i.e. on the mission I and the government have given to Business Sweden. Work with data centres has already started. The second is that Sweden must be an attractive country when it comes to digitalisation as a whole. It is of course what determines whether large companies find it interesting to locate operations here – if we have knowledge, competence, research and development. If we have a start-up scene that is exciting, it affects where you place other major investments in this area as well. It is a logic in this that is getting faster and faster. More and more will be connected in the near future. The amount of data that needs to be handled will increase exponentially – data needs to be both stored and handled. This definitely means business benefits for Sweden that we are included in these contexts and succeed well in terms of investments. I think you should work strategically, and I think we've started doing that with investment promotion. I also think that we do so in a number of other areas. By far the biggest issue has been the investigation of electricity tax, that is to say, simply getting competitive electricity tax. It is also about long-term rules of play. There are drawbacks to some of the models our competitors have chosen to change their energy taxes. It depends on what the European Commission will think in the future, which I would say is a much more uncertain tax environment. Some of our Nordic neighbours have chosen this route, and that is an advantage I think we should highlight when we look at how long our energy tax system has been highly competitively linked to the development of industry in Sweden. We have had a broad political set-up, and I hope that we will be able to do so on this issue as well. Energy policy is the most important thing in the long term for this type of large industry. There we also have the Energy Commission that works and becomes very important for Sweden. It is not just a matter of each of the participating parties highlighting their positions, it is a matter of agreeing on a direction that is long-term important for Sweden when it comes to energy supply. When it comes to the start-up scene in Sweden, I talk about it very often, and I am impressed by it. We're doing a lot of things right now. The first thing I did was to set up a study to review the state financing system and the venture capital system. You've had many years to do it, but you haven't had the strength to do it. Now we are running it to work fund in fund and with early phases. I have made sure that the authorities involved in export subsidies have to take this type of sector into their work, and I have ensured that the actors in the field are consulted on important issues affecting their work. That was not the case before. I think it's good and important to have an official at the Ministry of Industry who follows these questions – it may be a little strange that they didn't have it during eight years of bourgeois government – but I don't think that's what determines the direction of politics.
i-59e3a63cf1224c43-417	Mr President, I would like to I do not have any confidence in Mikael Damberg's proposal either, but I think it is important that you deliver when you say that you should deliver and that you do so quickly. This isn't an advanced thing. In politics, it normally takes time to investigate things. It may be frustrating for these companies, but that's how it works. However, hiring a person is a rather simple measure that does not need to take six months to implement. With regard to the strategy for data centres, we can take the example of Norrköping, where I am from. It is a municipality that is used to dealing with a lot of basic industries and precisely energy-intensive basic industries, such as the paper industry and so on. Such municipalities could be perfectly suited to data centres, but I think that first of all we need to be aware that the great emergence of data centres is taking place. You also need knowledge and contacts about how to work with these issues. There, the government or Business Sweden, perhaps by giving a commission to Business Sweden or in some other way, could gather the municipalities and contribute that knowledge. In Norrköping, too, it happens that the Social Democrats and the People's Party rule together, so there it can certainly go forward. Of course, I have raised the issue there, but this is an opportunity for many municipalities in Sweden. That is why I believe that the government needs to take a much stronger hold on this. It also urgently needs to be made clear that the tax will be reduced. The investigation was a good first step, but a clearer time with a national strategy would send a strong signal to the companies and to the municipalities and organisations working on this that the government takes this seriously and that we can really be involved in competing for the centres.
i-59e3a63cf1224c43-421	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I want to say that the government is taking this very seriously. We see great opportunities for Sweden in this area. If it happens that Norrköping is interested and has not shown the momentum, I think that both Mathias Sundin's party and my own party have the opportunity not least to contact Business Sweden, which not only has experience of contacts with the international, large companies but has also seen what you need to do for homework to succeed in this. What has not come out much in the discussion about Facebook is the hugely fast planning process that was carried out anyway, as well as the agility and creativity in the process Luleå managed to demonstrate. This enabled decisions to be made very quickly. For many of the companies that want to create new data centres, speed and process are very important, and it has been shown that you can do at local level in Sweden – if you make an effort to succeed in a good way, as they did in Luleå. I'm happy to work with Mathias Sundin, but I don't think we should wait for new strategy papers. This is a strategically important issue for Sweden. We already have a commission to Business Sweden to work with investment promotion in this area. There are also contact persons there who are happy to work with municipalities and local actors but above all with international, large companies who are interested in finding new places for their data server halls. So I see only a growing market here, and I see that Sweden is well positioned to take it. I am happy to work with Mathias Sundin and others to make sure that more people choose to make their investments in Sweden.
i-59e3a63cf1224c43-425	Mr President, I would like to Amineh Kakabaverh has asked me whether in my talks with the Iranian regime I intend to raise issues of human and democratic rights, the right to independent trade union organisation and the regime's imprisonment of workers' leaders, women's rights and their rule of law, as well as the position of the free industries – that is, art and artists – in Iran. The nuclear agreement reached on 14 July between Iran and Germany, France, the United Kingdom, China, Russia and the United States was an important diplomatic success that counters the proliferation of nuclear weapons and reduces the risk of further conflict in the Middle East. The agreement means that Iran undertakes to limit its nuclear programme and submit to in-depth inspections by the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA). In return, UN, EU and US nuclear sanctions are lifted or suspended as the IAEA verifies Iran's implementation of its commitments. EU sanctions against Iran justified by human rights abuses are not affected by the nuclear agreement and remain in force. The agreement also offers an opportunity for increased political and economic engagement with Iran, which for many years has been relatively isolated because of international sanctions. Iran is an important country in the region, with a great influence on developments in Syria and Iraq, among others. It is urgent that we can discuss these issues with Iran, although we have different views on how best to resolve Middle East conflicts. It is to be welcomed that Iran is now taking part in the international talks on Syria that have been held on a couple of occasions in Vienna. Iran has previously been a significant export market for Sweden, and although the sanctions against the country in recent years have limited trade, several Swedish companies are still represented on the Iranian market. The government sees a great potential for increased trade with Iran, which benefits the Swedish economy and employment and at the same time has a positive impact on developments in Iran. Sweden's presence in difficult markets is important for openness and relationship building. I expect Swedish companies operating in Iran to follow the guidelines contained in the Government's Action Plan on Entrepreneurship and Human Rights and in the Government's Action Plan on Feminist Foreign Policy. The government has increased its ambitions on sustainability issues, not least with a focus on human rights and anti-corruption. It is urgent that Sweden now seizes the opening-up to increased exchanges with Iran that the nuclear agreement entails. It is the government's conviction that greater openness and dialogue with Iran will help to strengthen reform-oriented forces in the country. The prolonged isolation of Iran has primarily benefited conservative groups in Iranian society, who have been able to protect their power and portray the outside world as hostile. We see that other forces in Iranian society welcome an increased international exchange, and especially with Sweden and the West. The approximately one hundred thousand Swedes who have Iranian origins contribute to our interpersonal ties with Iran being extensive. In line with the Government's ambition to increase exchanges with Iran, I will lead a delegation trip to Tehran on 5-6 December, together with representatives of the business community. I agree with Amineh Kakabaveh that the human rights situation, including women, trade union representatives, journalists, poets and artists in Iran, is deeply worrying. The government's commitment to human rights in Iran is solid. More extensive political, economic and cultural contacts can, in the long term, strengthen the forces in Iran that are promoting positive development. We also continue to be a driving force on these issues within the UN and the EU, including by supporting the UN Special Rapporteur on Human Rights in Iran, Ahmed Shaheed, who was appointed on Swedish initiative. Human rights are regularly addressed in official talks that Sweden conducts with Iran. I will, of course, raise human rights issues, including women's and workers' rights, during my talks with Iranian representatives.
i-T22TaPjT5axPQkq5bBZAj2	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister Mikael Damberg, for your answer! Trade exchanges that lead to development and promote democracy and human rights are positive. In the answer, the Government says that Swedish trade with Iran will lead to democracy and increased respect for human rights, which sounds very nice, good and idealistic. And it is often said that trade and exchange with dictatorships promote democracy and human rights, but there is every reason to doubt that thesis. Unfortunately, we have not seen any changes at all in countries such as Iran, Saudi Arabia with several countries with which Sweden and other countries in the world have traded. Currently, Sweden's trade with and investments in Iran. What effects has the long-term trade with Iran had on the development of democracy, women's rights, workers' rights and the right to organise themselves? When Ahmadinejad was replaced with Rohani in the presidential post in Iran, some apparently believed that there would be a change for the better and that respect for human rights and democracy would increase. I'm sorry, it was all wrong. Letting Rohani appear to be a better president than his predecessor is just one of the regime's manipulations. Previously, the brutal Rafsanjani was replaced by Khatami, which was painted as a little more liberal, but there was no change at all. It became business as usual. It continued to murder, imprison and torture opposition citizens, mainly trade union activists, Kurds, women, writers, artists, students and intellectuals as well as journalists. The entire Scandinavian trade union movement, including LO and Transport in Sweden, has long warned about the situation of human rights and trade union rights in Iranian prisons. Recently, 150 organisations throughout the transport chain wrote a statement in support of the imprisoned Iranian leaders. It is very important, given that the Social Democrats represent LO and LO members, to actually listen to them when the ministers have meetings with Iran. One of those in Evin Prison today is Jafar Azimzadeh. All he did was organize a small trade union manifestation on May 1st. The trade union activists Behnam Ebrahimzadeh and Rasoul Bodaghi are now in prison for three years after false accusations. Muhmud Salahi, who has actually visited the Swedish Parliament, is a Kurdish trade union leader of the bakeries in the city of Saqqes. He is now risking life, and he is very seriously ill. My question is: will the Government demand the release of all labour activists and political prisoners?
i-59e3a63cf1224c43-441	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to agree again that the human rights situation in Iran is very serious. It has been mentioned many times. In Sweden's relationship with Iran, also within the framework of both the EU and the UN, we have been very proactive and denounced the violations of human rights. We have not seen any positive developments in the human rights situation in Iran for a number of years. This is not just about these issues; we also see a great many capital punishments being imposed in Iran. There is no doubt about how Sweden views human rights or how we view whether Iran violates human rights. What is our strategy today internationally, globally, to work on this? For a number of years Sweden has championed the idea that openness, contact, dialogue, diplomatic relations but also trade is usually a way of opening up societies. If a society is exposed to contacts with other countries, you will see how things can work in other countries. It is Sweden's position unless the UN decides that we should isolate a country. Unfortunately, few people today say that the sanctions that have been against Iran have strengthened the pro-reform forces in Iran. Nor can I see a positive development in the other direction, that the sanctions have led to the reformist forces in Iran strengthening their position. Rather, it is the conservative forces that have used the situation to paint the West as an enemy and thus keep the country and the nation in a tight grip. We may have different views on this, but I see that the reformist forces in Iran welcome this agreement. They see it as good that sanctions have been lifted and see an increased exchange with the outside world as important. Then trade becomes a way of bringing about change. In addition to diplomatic contacts and our ambassador on the ground, trade and investment are one way of having exchanges with the country. I still believe it. I am not naive, and I am not saying in my reply that increased trade with Iran will lead to democracy in Iran. I believe that trade and international exchanges generally contribute to a positive development. But I do not think that it automatically leads to democracy if Swedish companies start trading with Iran. However, we can see that Swedish companies, now that it is opened up in Iran, have a role to play. Swedish companies have a fairly good reputation in Iran because they supply quality products. Internationally, the image of Swedish companies is that they take workers' rights issues very seriously, that they often act in a way that international companies may not always do. Swedish entrepreneurs, not everywhere but usually, take gender equality issues very seriously and both hire and promote women in their companies. These are important issues for Sweden. As the sixth country in the world, Sweden has developed its own action plan for companies on human rights where we expect companies, both at home and internationally, to respect human rights in their operations. I believe that in the margins, so-called venereal companies can also play a positive role in Iran in the future.
i-59e3a63cf1224c43-449	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister Mikael Damberg! I agree. And I do not think at all that the Swedish Government automatically believes in trade and trade with Iran or any other dictatorship. Sweden has for years had arms trade and other trade with Saudi Arabia. However, this has not led the Islamic dictator to change his view of women, democracy and human rights. That also applies in Iran. There are already a number of companies that have made investments there, for example in products such as cranes. I've cried so many times when I've seen people – work activists, Kurds and women – hanged in Swedish cranes in public places. The regime can also manipulate of course. As a socialist, feminist and internationalist, I know that no sanctions lead to a people rising and to something better. The sanctions have actually hit the Iranian working class very hard. I have my own family there and many others, and I know that you have to have three to five jobs to support your family. Clearly, sanctions have not been a good strategy. The reformist approach that has already been achieved with Khatami did not lead to democracy. Of course Iran needs the Western market, and on the contrary, the West needs Iran. It is a question of principle whether Sweden, with our Social Democratic Government, would like to invest in Iran, for example. The government will be delegation leaders, and a bunch of companies will go there. The purpose of investments is to produce. Who are the producers? Well, there are workers in Iran where there are lower production costs, lower wages and lower working conditions because the right to organise does not exist in Iranian legislation. Activists are in prison because they want better salaries, holiday pay, better working environment and the right to organise themselves. It would be good if the Government, in its meetings with Iranian representatives and companies, pointed out that it is unacceptable for this to happen. I asked the Government whether he would raise these issues, particularly as regards women's rights in Iran and the union leaders in prison. Will it follow up what the Swedish companies have done so far in Iran? Have they contributed to increasing the proportion of women in the areas where they work? Will there be women in the delegation? If so, will the Government advocate that a Swedish woman is a free woman who should not be subjugated and wear a veil in Iran, as Anna Lindh did in her day? It is good to show solidarity. In Iran, the veil is a uniform and a coercion for women. A Swedish woman should not have to wear a veil in Iran, because she is not from there but Swedish.
i-59e3a63cf1224c43-460	Mr President, I would like to It is good that we seem to agree that trade and investment do not automatically lead to democracy in a country or to human rights being stopped being violated in a country. I believe, however, that we agree that trade and openness towards countries are often better in order to have a long-term impact and also to offer contacts with the outside world. Especially for people who are oppressed and who live trapped in their societies, it becomes a way to influence and see opportunities in the long term in another development of society. If we make that choice and see that sanctions are lifted, then the basic principle is whether it is good or bad that more companies exist in Iran. I think that's good. Sweden is one of six countries in the world that has an action plan for companies and human rights, and Swedish companies have sustainable entrepreneurship as an important profile. Is it good that Swedish companies invest in Iran? I think so, both from a business perspective because Iran has previously been a large export market for Sweden and because it is good that Swedish companies invest and hire more people in Iran so that the people get more jobs, which leads to a positive development in Iran. I think it's important. Amineh Kakabaveh argues for both parts. First she says that openness and trade are good, but then she questions whether it is good that Swedish companies make investments on the spot in Iran. You get to choose sides in the arguments. I choose to say that investment is good because I believe in openness and trade – unless the UN or others decide that the country should be isolated, but that is another discussion. Sweden will certainly not be unclear about human rights. We're not. Iran knows what we think about human rights, and I will of course raise the issue of human rights including gender equality in my talks in Iran. However, Sweden's basic position is that we should show respect and understanding for different traditions in the countries we travel to. When Sweden visits different countries, we try to show respect for the cultures and traditions that exist in these countries. How we build a relationship where we can have open conversations and stand up for Swedish values. This means that women in the Swedish delegation wear a veil in Iran because it is a tradition there. That is what applies to our foreign relations. To refuse to wear a veil as a Swedish woman in Iran often becomes a demonstration, a small show. This can be done, but if we are to build a relationship and have diplomatic relations, we need to think about what is wise to do to achieve what we want to achieve. We don't go with a business delegation to do a show. We want to work long-term with Iran and forward our Swedish perception of the system in Iran in the long term. In this case, I am also going there to promote the business exchange that I understood we both agree on is long-term good for Iran's development.
i-59e3a63cf1224c43-472	Mr President, I would like to That is an interesting argument. Here we have completely different attitudes. The government says the veil is tradition. But it's oppression and uniform, not tradition. Millions and millions of Muslim women are against forced ridicule, including Iranian women. Those who have resisted the veil are not Western women, but Muslim women and men. Then why should a free Swedish woman wear a veil? It's not about a show. It's about not accepting oppression. It's not cultural. That is why it is important, also in relation to the debate here at home. If it is voluntary, why should a Swedish woman who has fought for democracy and human rights be subjugated by Iran or Saudi Arabia? Our views differ here. I say 'yes' to transparency, but why are there no trade union representatives in the Trade and Goods Delegation? The Left Party wants Sweden to work in other parts of the world and for democracy. But we must have the courage to highlight what we stand for and the questions of principle. In its reply, the Minister mentioned UN Special Rapporteur Ahmed Shaheed. He hasn't been allowed into the country. He didn't get permission. Now he gets a permit on condition that he doesn't make any conditions. Atena Farghadani was given 13 years in prison for making animal caricatures of those who passed the law on contraception. That is the case in Iran.
i-59e3a63cf1224c43-477	Mr President, I would like to I do not question the human rights abuses that exist in Iran and in several other places on earth. What I question is whether or not the Left Party wants to trade with Iran. If we think it's so bad there, maybe we shouldn't be there, but I think it leads to a worse development. I think it is good to have openness and trade and to have diplomatic relations in place in order to be able to express our views and to be clear about what Sweden, the EU and the UN think about human rights in Iran. Sweden was also a driving force to get the UN to appoint the Human Rights Envoy responsible for Iran. Sweden has a high position on human rights issues. We will never apologize for standing up for democracy and human rights. But if it is to work in the long term, we must also consider how we act on the ground. We will work with trade unions. We have had information meetings with the parliamentary parties, with trade union representatives and with Swedish companies to inform about this trip and how we intend to follow it up with more trips ahead. We see before us that trade unions will be on delegation trips to Iran in the future to discuss these issues as well. We work long-term with these issues, and we have a strategy to work with countries where it works in a completely different way than in Sweden. We have to choose. If we believe that trade and transparency are good and lead to better development in the long term, we must dare to be in place in these countries and promote investment and trade. I think so, and that's why I'm going to Iran.
