i-WPoaEN2LggCaQHsgjQ7oaa	Mr President, I would like to Today, we are debating Category 13 on gender equality and the establishment of newly arrived immigrants. In a situation where we have such high pressure on Sweden, the need for measures to improve integration is urgent. When so many people come here and are expected to be granted a residence permit, our systems work, are cost-effective and allow more people to become part of Sweden and contribute to the common cash register and the common welfare. The Moderates highlight the need for increased driving forces to take a job and to study. Both knowledge and competence must be increased among newcomers so that they can take on the jobs created in Sweden. In our special opinion, we also emphasise the need for more cost-effective local authorities to receive refugees. We want the standard model that exists to reduce the bureaucracy associated with this. It also creates better conditions for municipalities that take a great responsibility to receive a performance-based remuneration. The explanation is simple. Municipalities that receive few new arrivals do not have as high additional costs as municipalities that receive many. In the latter, the challenge is much greater. We also have proposals regarding the establishment allowance. We want to maintain and strengthen the job stimulation that exists in the establishment allowance. What the government does is to remove the job stimulation that exists, which means that you can keep the establishment allowance for a period after you get into work. This is bad because it increases the marginal effects of taking a job. We need reduced marginal effects in terms of moving from subsidies to work. The OECD has pointed out that Sweden is one of the countries in the world that has the highest marginal impact on those with the lowest incomes. This criticism seems to have gone completely past the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party. A more effective reception of refugees is also important. As regards, for example, the municipalities' allowances and start-up payments for unaccompanied refugee children living in Sweden, the Moderates early highlighted the proposal to abandon the model of HVB homes and instead have accommodation with special support, which is much cheaper and less staff intensive. It is gratifying that the government has chosen to join this line. The driving forces for work need to be strengthened, because the figures we can see in the budget certainly do not look good. In Sweden, women born outside the European area have an employment rate of 23%. Only 23% of women born outside EFTA are therefore working. It is not possible to run a welfare state, if that is our ambition, with such low employment rates. One of the main reasons why we work so much in Sweden and have a high employment rate is that we should be able to finance a common welfare. Other countries have lower employment rates without a problem, but they do not have common welfare and funding for schools etc. I do not think anyone is ready to make such a substantial shift in Sweden. The main reason why foreign born people are excluded from the labour market is the lack of human capital. They find it difficult to take the jobs that exist in Sweden because they have lower levels of education and country-specific human capital that is not worth so much in Sweden. Knowledge, skills and driving forces must be put in place to address this. It is depressing to see the statistics presented. 33 percent of men drop out of SFI. A third drop out of Swedish education. Only 7% of those covered by the establishment reform go to studies. It is clear that more driving forces and lower thresholds into studies and into the labour market are needed, not higher thresholds and higher marginal effects, as the government proposes. Here there is a clear line between the bourgeois and the Social Democratic-led government. We recognise that thresholds cannot only be lowered. There is also a need to raise people's levels. But when will the government recognise that it is not only possible to raise people's levels but also to lower thresholds? It would be good if the government admitted it and took it to heart. I hope that we will have a constructive debate.
i-1c5b270610113148-14	Mr President, I would like to I support the Swedish Democrats' reservation. It is strange to debate a budget when the figures are unknown to everyone. We have seen developments in the past year that some claim were unpredictable but, as others of us say, we knew just that it would happen. We may not know exactly when or how fast, but that was inevitable. The result is that we are here today with figures that have already fallen, regardless of whether you look at the committee proposal – the government proposal – or our reservation. I'll admit it. The reservation is also based on figures which do not exist today and which do not know what the situation is. That is why I intend to talk more about the principles behind and the direction, like the speaker in the speech we have just heard. That is also why I am in favour of a reservation which I do not believe will actually be accepted. We could hear just a week or two ago that no one could predict what would come. We could see how politicians at the highest level – our Prime Minister and our Deputy Prime Minister – were forced to grow up and realize that there is a reality outside that looks different from what they had imagined. We could see it when they were in these positions. It worries me very much. For far too long, far too much of politics has been built on how we wish the world looked, how we wish people would react, how we wish society could be built. For far too long, far too much of politics has been built on the belief that people always act in the best way. We have looked at the intentions behind proposals that we are putting forward, but we have not seen any loopholes or opportunities to exploit systems for those who see that something can be taken on board in a different way. The need or the possibility of reducing immigration to Sweden has been discussed. For a long time, it is clear that for the Swedish Democrats this is a fundamental aspect if we are to talk about the possibility of building a cohesive Sweden at all. For us, it is self-evident that it is impossible to build a society where you do not have the opportunity to meet and grow into a community. Yet that is exactly what politics has looked like. There has been no opportunity to meet those who come here or to ensure that they have honest intentions. There has been talk of naivety, that we have been naive. No, we have not been naive, but politics has been very naive. The Swedish democrats have been advocating a total ban on asylum reception in Sweden for a few months now, for a number of reasons. We often hear: The Swedish Democrats have always said this – they do not want any people here. But that's not true. However, we have always said that immigration must be at a level that makes those who come here part of our society. We have also said that if it is help for vulnerable people in the world we want to focus on – if that's how we motivate reception in Sweden – we are completely wrong out there. Building what is called a humane policy on people moving on their own to a country in another part of the world does not help the most needy. That those who will get help only get it if they get here, hire international criminal gangs to smuggle themselves to Sweden or decide for themselves that they have the right to live in Sweden is not a humane policy. But that's what it's been like. Instead, the Swedish democrats advocate a policy based on the fact that those who come to Sweden already have their papers in order when they are on their way here and that they come via the quota refugee system, with a reception that has been well prepared by the municipalities around the country, where one has been able to know who comes where and where one has been able to investigate what skills exist in advance. It creates opportunities to grow into our society. So we also ensure that those who receive help are actually those in need of it. Before I finish, I would just like to give a quick message about the area of gender equality, because it is also being discussed here today. I noted that the Digitisation Commission submitted a report yesterday where one of the proposals was that women studying it should indeed have their loans written off. That particular position is very symptomatic of much of politics. You group. They say that from a higher level you best know what is best for different groups. Different conditions are given, whether it is for women, men, new arrivals, long-arrived or native Swedes. Often it is we who are accused of putting groups against groups, but I think it is the other parties that should take a look at their own policies and see who puts groups against groups.
i-1c5b270610113148-30	Mr President, I would like to I have a question about the budget we are going to adopt in the area of integration. The Swedish Democrats propose that the budget for integration and gender equality measures be reduced by SEK 10 billion, almost a half. That's a lot. The Swedish Democrats refer to the fact that it is in parity with the reduced reception levels that follow from the Swedish Democrats' policy in the area of migration law. However, this is the budget for next year. We have people who have come here, and then the question is: How will the Swedish Democrats reduce expenditure? Compensation for people who come here will be reduced, and municipal allowances will be reduced by over 2 billion. My question is: How do the Swedish Democrats think this will work with the great reception here and now?
i-1c5b270610113148-33	Mr President, I would like to Unfortunately, we still have very high amounts of money in the area of integration in our budget too, precisely because there are still commitments for those who have already come here. As our reservation states, the reduction in parities is the reduction in new commitments that we expect in the next year. With reference to international law, conventions and agreements, we have put forward concrete proposals on how we can – if we have the courage – say that we cannot currently deal with the situation and that we are demanding exceptions so that we can reject people at the border if they come from other EU countries or other safe countries. A large part of the costs in this area go to direct new arrivals coming during the year, and we are reducing that amount considerably. But as I said, our reservation is also based on figures that are not really relevant. That is why we should discuss what policy we should have at all. It has long been known that we are fundamentally opposed to many of the integration measures that the current government or previous governments have launched, precisely because they put groups against groups and create lock-in effects, victim images of immigrants and various differences in society and have no good long-term effect at all.
i-1c5b270610113148-38	Mr President, I would like to This means that you stand here and say that you have presented a utopia budget, Paula Bieler. It is a budget that has no realism at all. Now people have gone to Sweden, and I know that the Swedish Democrats do not want anyone to come here. The fact that 10 billion is now being removed means that the municipalities are completely alone and left to their fate, but the Swedish Democrats do not care about that. The establishment allowance for new arrivals is removed in its entirety, as it says. The money for civil society also seems to disappear in principle because the compensation for the efforts of some newly arrived immigrants is also being lost. Home-equipment loans are to be removed. What is the message from the Swedish Democrats to the municipalities that are calling today for more resources and more support to be able to receive? Now it's about next year. I am not talking about what the Swedish Democrats want in the future, but it is next year that we are presenting a budget for. I think it would be fair if the municipalities could be told how to manage the reception without these compensations.
i-1c5b270610113148-43	Mr President, I would like to As I said in my last reply: That is precisely why we have very large sums left – because there are already people in the country. As I said, the cuts that we are making are in parallel with the reduction in immigration that we are already calculating next year, as the proposals we are presenting can be implemented tomorrow. When we laid down our budget, we talked about that a reduction of approximately 95% of all asylum seekers to Sweden is not unreasonable at all, given that it is virtually impossible to get to our country today without crossing safe countries along the way. Then it is completely unreasonable that Sweden should continue to receive it when it fails, when we are faced with a system collapse that has already started in many places. Some of the investments that were listed, such as home equipment loans, we have always been against in their entirety, precisely because it puts group against group, because some get advantages that other inhabitants of our country do not get. It's a baroque policy. That is what creates contradictions in our society. That's what puts group against group. That's what creates prejudice, strife and segregation. I do not understand how anyone who considers themselves humane or wants you to overcome differences and conflicts can stand up for a policy that makes a difference to people.
i-1c5b270610113148-46	Mr President, I would like to The world is changing very quickly right now. We are in the midst of a whole new reality, and all we know is that we have no idea what even the near future will look like. We can only guess. One such guess is that very many of the systems that we have in place today will need to be fundamentally changed and that it must go quickly. I said those words a year ago, when we stood here debating this particular area of expenditure. Since then, a lot has happened both in Sweden and abroad. But here in politics, in this particular area, we are taking ant steps. For the last year, when I was standing here, I talked about that with our square and poorly built systems we put the hookbones for people who come here. I spoke about some of the systems that needed to be changed, not least in the labour and housing markets. But very little has happened there. With the increased number of people seeking protection in Sweden, it is of course even more urgent now than it was a year ago, and these things still need to be done. Even if we in Parliament have not quite had time for this, there are sparkles of light elsewhere. More and more municipalities, companies, associations, non-profit organisations and a variety of private individuals do lots of things all the time. When all that power starts to work, when they realize that we will not solve this situation without having to take matters into their own hands, then things happen. Åre works with matching new arrivals, with very good results. It has been realised that Arbetsförmedlingen needs to be in place. There is a need to have a better link with companies. Then you can match people. Then you get people to work, and suddenly they are a resource instead of a burden. In Sundsvall they made an inventory of all their entrepreneurs. What was found was that people should read professional Swedish instead of reading about Selma Lagerlöf and literature history in the SFI. They also wanted supervisors who were with the first time to support people so that they had someone to turn to if the language did not work. As a result, people who had been considered unemployable were suddenly exposed. In Kalmar, you can look for health care professionals during the health examinations. In Ronneby you have a big project with bridge builders and with social orientation where you pilot families who will put their children in school through the first four weeks in a fantastic way. It has reduced the conflicts in society and made a lot of people get into work faster. In Växjö it is the same, and in many other parts of the country projects are being carried out that improve the situation and, as we know, work, as has been going on for a while. In Vänersborg you do teachers. They are brought in quickly already during the time as asylum seekers to be able to go to a school, learn Swedish and be able to work more quickly. This is just a small selection of all the successful examples that actually exist around the country. It is this type of activity that we should support and disseminate. Instead, sticks continue to be put on the road. In Nybro, for example, there are vacancies in a welder training where almost everyone becomes employed afterwards. However, you must not take in asylum seekers or new arrivals there, even though they are many in the municipality of Nybro. The Employment Service is not allowed to pay the municipality for those places. But now you do it anyway, at the expense of the municipality, because you understand that it is better for society. But we've built systems that don't work. Åre says that the biggest problem continues to be the same: you must not use the municipality's adapted labour market training courses for this group. And in Vänersborg, where you work with the teachers, you point out that it is very difficult for someone who has recently arrived from Syria to get an extract from the Syrian criminal record – of course, that anyone can understand. It has therefore been necessary to circumvent this by having a follow-up and an evaluation of the person instead. You find more flexible systems. That's what we're supposed to be doing here. At the same time, it is now several months for asylum seekers to obtain their work permits and their coordination numbers in order to start a bank account, and traineeships are not approved. People are kept out of the labour market, and it continues all the time. But when you sit in passivity, the power you have from the beginning – the power you bring here with which could lead to maybe starting a business or getting a job – will disappear, day by day. We have processing times that are up for years now. It can't go on like this. Small businesses continue to indicate year after year that the biggest obstacle for them to grow is their lack of skills. People think it's only highly educated skills that are needed. No, there's a lot of people missing. There's no cooks and welders. The service companies indicate that they cannot find good people to hire and that they do not trust the Employment Service. This is where we need to deploy resources. This is where the solution lies. But what do you do instead? Yeah, you give up. They say: No, we should not change the systems. We're gonna keep screwing things up for people. We will continue to keep people out of the labour market. We will continue to make all the demands that prevent it from being built, that businesses do not grow, that health care has difficulties to cope with, that schools do not get teachers and that social services in many municipalities are now on their knees. We're gonna keep doing that. If it clashes with people's right to seek shelter in Sweden, what do we do? Right now, the government is telling us to remove that possibility, that we should make it harder. Just before I entered this Chamber, I read an article that tells me that the first boat refugees have come to Sweden. You can't just close boundaries and think it doesn't affect anyone. These people still exist. Instead of fast-tracking a law on ID requirements, which is now due to come into force before Christmas – then suddenly it's going fast, then it's not an ant steps – we should fast process the endless list of things that allow us to let people in, not only to get protection here but also to let them into the labour market and the housing market and society. That's where we should put our power.
i-1c5b270610113148-63	Mr President, I would like to The debate today will be a little different than it could have been. We are dealing with the budget negotiated between the Government and the Left Party, which concerns the area of expenditure. But since then many other things have happened, including on the part of the government, which has consequences for the area and new arrivals' conditions for establishment. I will therefore have to talk a little about it too. This should really be a debate that felt only like the start of a good and positive path to establishment, after eight years of bourgeois failure in this area. On the Left side, we are very pleased to have taken important steps in the budget away from the unilateral disarmament of welfare and the marketisation of important functions, in order instead to take steps towards a different distribution of common resources and efforts that will be able to equip people for education and work. We are absolutely convinced that the removal of the piloting system was absolutely necessary, because it is largely unprecedented in what we have seen in the past in terms of criminality, cheating and waste of tax money. Other important priorities in the budget are the clear will for all municipalities to receive. This is an issue that the Left Party has been pursuing for a long time and which we will hopefully soon be able to implement, with the government proposal now on the table. Increased local government provision for the reception of new arrivals, support for the county boards for the coordination of reception, and funds to start some activities at the centre are also important and positive progress. It is particularly important that the government actually takes proper steps to adapt training and job preparation efforts to the individual through holistic approaches to validation and fast track. Although there are some steps still to be taken, such as expanding Swedish education and starting the assessment of skills from day one in order not to lose important time during the asylum process – the majority of those who come here will now be allowed to stay, and it is just as well to start – the focus that is set out with these first steps is quite right, i.e. to provide financial conditions, support and focus to all the actors in the reception and to streamline efforts so that they can do more effectively what they are good at. Unfortunately, however, the government now seems to have stopped in the middle of the step and is in danger of changing direction. When the government called for the first talks on better reception of refugees, we in the Left Party were very positive. It is quite clear, as Johanna Jönsson has just mentioned, that all those who are currently working around the clock in Sweden to receive refugees need more support. Municipalities need to have both financial and practical conditions to create a good reception that can accommodate many. There is no doubt that the situation in some places is strained, not least in the municipalities of arrival. At the same time, there are still a number of municipalities that cannot cope with the situation at all, although they do not have much to do. It is about those who have not taken their responsibilities or who have a lot of capacity to take advantage of. If you talk to the municipalities in the country, the message is not: Close all borders. Rather, the message is: Support us and let us together find ways to do this – new regulatory changes and new ways to deal with it. Give us financial conditions to build and hire. It was with this hope that we entered into the talks. Let's help each other. Let's focus on the practical. Unfortunately, though, the talks did not turn out to be about this to any great extent. It was very good things that fell out of the agreement, for example more money for the municipalities and that all municipalities should receive. These were things that the government could very much have agreed with the Left Party on in an additional budget, or things for which there was already a parliamentary majority. The bourgeoisie, for its part, used the situation to get its old common labour market policy through with insecurity and lower wages. As far as temporary residence permits are concerned, we all know, from research, that it does not work well. Surprisingly, insecurity is not a factor in the success of opportunities for people to establish themselves in a country – quite the opposite. In addition, this means that we will have a group of insecure people in the labour market who depend on the employer's goodwill for their future security in Sweden. This is a situation we recognise from the absolute drawbacks of labour immigration. It is a situation that makes the employee extremely vulnerable to exploitation and makes it difficult for the co-workers standing by to compete with the conditions and pay that an insecure person is prepared to accept. It is somewhat incomprehensible that a Social Democratic government is prepared to implement it. Furthermore, the fact that the proposal is expected to worsen further after this new agreement makes it worse. People who have fled hell in Syria will now have to wait at least five years to reunite with s in family – only two years when they wait for their stay and then three years when they wait for a permanent residence permit. It should be quite obvious that it is also not a good basis for establishment. In addition, this risks causing people to take the whole family with them into the deadly boat on the Mediterranean. Those of us who have stood on the beach in Lesbos know what it means when people step ashore with their wet children. Mr President, I would like to Moreover, by accepting this bourgeois labour market policy which places workers against workers, the government has set itself in a position of blurring the real conflict, namely that between a policy of stable welfare and a bourgeois policy which has for a long time left welfare starving and weakened, with tax estimates in the 140 billion class and with much less opportunity for a good reception than we had before. As the government now calls for new talks, the pre-negotiation offer seems to be entirely on the stage of the Moderates and Christian Democrats. Now it is no longer even on the surface talk about letting the conversation focus on improving reception, but it is all about reducing the number of people seeking asylum in Sweden. It is an extremely serious step for Sweden that the Left Party can never accept. The question of what actually applies in the agreements that the government is now concluding in all haste is here. We keep our promises and are always prepared for new talks that will take us further in the direction that the government and we set out in this budget. We are more than ready to engage in increased support for municipalities and county councils to facilitate reception, both financially and in terms of regulatory simplification. We are also prepared to take part in taking responsibility for investment in housing and continue to create better conditions for education and work. On the other hand, we are not prepared to put the right to asylum against welfare, especially because it is basically a false contradiction. Sweden has historically managed a large refugee reception precisely because we invest in people and build Sweden larger. That is what we need to do now, Mr President. In this regard, the government will always have a given partner in the Left Party.
i-1c5b270610113148-79	Mr President, I would like to It was a very interesting post. I've been involved in opposition. But I have never experienced such an art in being at the same time against something that you should actively vote for yourself and do not have an alternative to. What Christina Höja Larsen says about there being no contradiction at all between welfare and a wide reception is interesting. She says we've done it before because we've invested in welfare. We've never been anywhere near these numbers. But the last time we had very high figures was in the mid-1990s during the Balkan crisis when many refugees came here. I would like to recall that this was followed by a period of cuts in welfare. To say that we have managed this because we invested in welfare is a completely incorrect history. Now we have agreed with the government on an enlarged RUT, jobs outside collective agreements and lots of much-needed reforms to contribute to increased employment. Then my question is: will the Left Party still support such a budget when these things, so to speak, will be added to a budget bill next year? Will the Left Party vote for such a budget? Does the government still have its budget base?
i-1c5b270610113148-84	Mr President, I would like to You can always count on Hanif Bali when it comes to two things. One is to lower the debate to a new bottom level and begin to review and talk about languishing. The second is that he is ready to sacrifice anything to protect interest deductions and profits and to lower people's wages. That is basically what he tries to cover with his argumentation every time. In the choice between spending ceilings and ceilings for ordinary people, he will always choose the expenditure ceiling. That's it. In the choice between fancy bathroom renovations and more social secretaries and teachers, he will always choose sides for those who already have. That's how it works. It's old-fashioned moderate politics. The new is probably that this policy seeks to adapt more clearly to a rhetoric that we recognise from a party that Reinfeldt would never have liked to touch with pliers. At the same time, the work line and shorter time to establishment are actually a cane horse for your moderates – right? Temporary residence permits are now being used to ensure that the opposite is actually the case. Of course, I wonder how to get it together. First, people have to wait two years for a residence permit. That is how it will de facto be. They will then receive a temporary residence permit for three years. It is a total of five years in uncertainty and insecurity. All research says that the longer you wait outside or in uncertainty, the worse the establishment becomes. How on earth does Hanif Bali make it all go together?
i-1c5b270610113148-89	Mr President, I would like to It's very interesting – apparently I'm for interest rebates and things like that, and it's very stupid. But you will vote for a budget soon, Christina Höj Larsen. Is there more interest deduction in it or not? That's more interest deduction, and you vote for it. You cannot criticise me for supporting things you will vote for tomorrow. It is not a rational logic and not a rational method of debate. It is interesting that you lift up TUT and all this about temporary residence permits being bad. There is research showing that temporary residence permits lead to less integration, but at the same time we know that it is based on people being completely helpless and unable to influence their situation. On the contrary, what the Moderates advocate is to give people agents, i.e. those who train, take a job and make an effort get higher returns. In that case, you will not only be granted a temporary residence permit, but then it will be a permanent residence permit. The research available shows that, on the contrary, it contributes to greater driving forces and better establishment. The claim that all research shows that temporary residence permits are negative is therefore incorrect. Then it is quite interesting that most other countries have temporary residence permits and have better integration than Sweden. I mean, how does that make sense? Germany only has temporary residence permits, but their integration is doing quite well. The lack of logic of the Left Party may work, but it will be a little strange when tomorrow you will vote in favour of it. After all, you will vote in favour of interest-rate deductions, job-tax deductions and all the things in the budget. My question is therefore, once again: Will you vote on the government budget the next time it presents an extended RUT and YA job, Christina Höj Larsen?
i-1c5b270610113148-94	Mr President, I would like to Hanif Bali clearly lacks a real basis. It goes without saying that when we negotiate a budget, we are doing our very best to get as much left-wing politics through as possible. We have taken the view that what we have agreed is enough to support this. It is a step in the right direction, as I said in the speech. There is nothing strange; that is what you in the Alliance have had to do for quite a long time. So I think Hanif Bali really recognizes that quite well. However, the issue of temporary residence permits raises some questions. What employer would like to invest in labour that is not known if it should remain? Who wants to invest in some training and skills development, or even to take someone into practice, if you don't know if the person will remain in the country? Moreover, the research does not at all show what Hanif Bali here is trying to prove. It shows, in fact, that everyone, including those who are relatively safe in the labour market, is in a worse position if you have temporary residence permits. There is even a paradox linked to this, and that is that people who receive permanent residence permits more often dare to take the step of returning to their home country. They know that they have the opportunity to return to the country where they have a permanent residence permit. That's how it works. The person who has a temporary residence permit does not feel the security to dare to take that step. Hanif Bali sounds a lot but is very rarely anchored in what we know about how things work.
i-1c5b270610113148-98	Mr President, I would like to I've seen a lot in the media over the last few days where we Center Party are happy to be lumped together with Left Party. They say that we have now been left out, along with the Left Party, and say no. This has bothered me and many with me. I see a big difference between our two parties. Yes, both parties say no to limiting the possibility for people to seek protection in the country, but a very important difference is that we in the Center Party have taken major steps during the year to suggest what we want to do instead to cope with the incredibly difficult situation that most municipalities but also county councils and other parts of society find themselves in. As you stand here and tell me that efforts are needed, Christina Höj Larsen, at the same time I do not hear a single bet mentioned. You are talking about the negotiations that we were involved in and which we too signed. We sat there because we had concrete things – a long list of things – we wanted in and we got included. We are very proud to have got them through, because they will make a real difference to people who have come to this country. It's easy to say no. It's easy to say, stop, no-- that's bad, and that's bad. Somewhere, however, you have to tell what you want to do instead. My question to you is therefore what the Left Party wants to do instead, Christina Höj Larsen. How are you going to solve this difficult situation? It's not enough to just say, "Let's raise the tax, and we'll fix it." That is the only thing I have seen from you, in a debate article. Otherwise – nothing.
i-1c5b270610113148-102	Mr President, I would like to I have also noted that confusion. Although we are in agreement in precisely the areas of defending the right to asylum, it is true that there is a great deal on which we do not agree at all. I think it might be appropriate to clarify that. One of the things on which we do not agree and on which I also touched with regard to the other bourgeois parties is the talk of always lowering the thresholds. So it is an attack on labour law and working conditions that we know is something like the same. This usually means lower wages and worse conditions. So there are a lot of things we do not agree on. For the Left Party, I would say, the essence of a good reception is, above all, to create a well-being that actually holds people. We must both create housing in the short term and ensure that it is possible for people to accommodate asylum seekers in their homes. We must have modular housing, and the state must take greater responsibility in the reception of asylum so that we may be able to push away some Frasse Fixers – at least the worst. Municipalities should also be able to be more easily responsible for the new housing of unaccompanied minors. I am a little glad that Johanna Jönsson mentioned just some of the examples from the municipalities. What that will mean is precisely that we have to make a lot of changes in terms of the practicalities of the municipalities. I am fully aware and, in fact, set on the fact that this is how it must be. This applies to both teacher support and recruitment already during the asylum process – a mapping of what for people there is, and so on. So there is a great deal to do.
i-1c5b270610113148-105	Mr President, I would like to This is symptomatic in my view. This is what the debate has been like for a very long time. You say what to do – we're going to have faster validation, we're going to have housing faster and we're going to get people into work faster. People should learn the language faster. But you don't say anything about how to do this. That's where we are now. We must be able to point out how it is to be done and who is to do this. Where are you going to take the resources to do that, Christina Höj Larsen? I'm asking for something much more concrete, because this is going to be fluffy. It's the same fluff anyone in here could say. The municipalities must be able to participate, but how is it to be done? It was very clear to me in the negotiations we had that the Left Party has no answers whatsoever to these questions. You come up with little things that wouldn't solve the situation, and I see that you're not the least prepared to think about whether the positions you've had in the past have really been the right ones. In our party, we've had to rewind things. We've said things before, and now we've had to say: No, I don't think that was very smart. We have been prepared to do so in this new and very difficult situation, but I see no such will whatsoever in the Left Party. I do not think that is taking responsibility, and I think it is incredibly naive to think that we can only continue to do the same thing as before. Apart from the fact that I hope to get a little better answers than this, I also wonder about what Hanif Bali was to some extent into. If, in the next budget, the Social Democrats and the Green Party come forward with their proposals to start closing the border and removing the opportunity for a majority of people seeking asylum to actually do this, including with the ID requirements, what will the Left Party do? Will you sign that? Will you say it's okay, or will you put your heels on the ground and say no again? I genuinely wonder about this. I'm worried about the development, and I know you are, to some extent, Christina Höj Larsen. But what will you do?
i-1c5b270610113148-110	Mr President, I would like to I am not concerned to some extent, but I am very concerned, and Johanna Jönsson knows that very well. There is no reason to reduce each other on that point. I find it very difficult to imagine that the Left Party will be able to support a situation in which the borders are closed. But, as I said, we're always prepared to talk. Let's see what those talks end up in, in new negotiations. But the starting point is that it is very difficult to imagine that we can support something that basically means putting welfare against asylum law. That is not something we are prepared to do. Johanna Jönsson did something that is quite interesting and that happens very often when you debate with bourgeois representatives. It is that you first say that you do not want to hear anything about tax increases and hear nothing about general welfare, but you have no proposals. At the same time, what is at the heart of both what has worked historically in Sweden and what will work in the future is precisely that we together make investments in, for example, housing. There is nothing going to pop up on its own, but it is a matter of us taking political responsibility together and ensuring that it is built, that there are, for example, government credits – that something is happening. Of course, this must also be done in close cooperation with an educational initiative, because we all know that there are people who do not have enough education to build Sweden to the extent that would be necessary. Above all, Sweden needs to train many more people in some kind of intermediate level, and we need to invest in that. We now have the opportunity to do so.
i-1c5b270610113148-114	Mr President, I would like to There are several parties here that have historically stood up for a humane refugee policy. It pains that we are now being forced to implement measures in Sweden that mean that the inflow will decrease – that's how it is. However, it follows from the fact that the legal acts in force in the European Union are de facto suspended: the Dublin Regulation, the Asylum Procedure Directive, in fact, also parts of Schengen cooperation and external border protection. This means that we have had an inflow in October and November of about 10,000 people a week. The left-wing party's position is that all people who come here should be entitled to permanent residence permits, i.e. the right to stay in Sweden for the rest of their lives. You should not have border controls, you should not have the right to see people's identity documents, you should not have any supply requirements, you should also not be able to make any medical age assessments of unaccompanied persons and so on. The reasonable consequence of this, and which all logic speaks for, is, of course, that the inflow we have now will continue without end if no austerity is made to deal with the current situation. This means about 7 000 – 10 000 people a week in the coming years. If, at the same time, you look at the demands of the Left Party regarding these people's ability to enter the labour market, it is a complete halt. You are not prepared to make the slightest concession to lower the thresholds. You should not have any thresholds in Sweden, but you should have sky-high thresholds into the Swedish labour market. Then the question is: What do you say, Christina Höj Larsen, to those who are now coming and who will receive permanent residence permits but who face a labour market where there are no measures so that they can enter?
i-1c5b270610113148-119	Mr President, I would like to So what Mrs Malm calls the influx are people, people in need of protection. What we are saying is not that everyone who comes will be granted permanent residence permits, but that everyone will be entitled to an asylum procedure. It will then be decided what kind of residence permit they receive. That's really how it's worked for quite some time. The Finnish Immigration Service provides permanent residence permits to those who come from countries where the conflicts are deemed to be lasting, and that is the vast majority of them in this situation. Fredrik Malm says that now we are forced to resort to these measures. I wonder if it really is. Have we exhausted all the other possibilities? I'd say, no, we haven't exhausted all the other possibilities. We have done nothing but say to the European Union, and I must say that is not the most effective way in terms of Hungary and other states. What we had to do, of course, is put economic pressure behind words. Instead of putting pressure on refugees, as is currently happening, economic pressure should be put on the EU. This could have been done, and can still be done, by withholding the EU membership fee. I think it's a pretty reasonable grip. If the others don't keep their promises, we won't pay. Then we have every reason to use the membership fee for what needs to be done in Sweden, and that is quite a lot.
i-1c5b270610113148-123	Mr President, I would like to Then the Left Party's answer is to the tens of thousands of people who come to Sweden, who will have to wait a long time for their residence permits – most of them will probably be allowed to stay in Sweden – that we will put economic pressure on other EU countries. But how does it help the people who are in Sweden now? You in the Left Party say that you are prepared to continue to have order in Sweden where there will be perhaps 10 000 people a week. Then we are talking about up to half a million a year, and with the rules for family immigration and other things there will of course be more. A large proportion of these people will find it difficult to enter the labour market. Many of them are not highly educated and do not have skills that can be validated. At the same time, you in the Left Party are saying that everyone should be entitled to full-time employment. You're supposed to have shorter working hours. Lower demands should be made in compensation systems. You're supposed to raise the contributions. In addition, you are writing something that is almost incomprehensible in your election manifesto: With our policy, low and middle income earners receive unchanged income tax. But, my God, in the municipality after the municipality you will now raise the tax. It is a promise that cannot be kept here. Low and middle income earners pay municipal tax. You promise in your election manifesto that you will not raise taxes in any municipalities anywhere in Sweden. The question will then be to Christina Höj Larsen: Do you want your welfare state shaken or moved? How are we going to deal with this? How are we gonna do this? You must have some proposals which lower the thresholds for people coming to Sweden into the labour market. Otherwise, we will not be able to cope with this situation. Christina Höj Larsen says that we should put economic pressure on other EU countries. Yes, and the fact is that parts of the proposals that the government has now put forward put pressure on other countries. But they're saying no to the Left Party.
i-1c5b270610113148-127	Mr President, I would like to The proposals put pressure on the people who are on the run. The closing of borders throughout Europe is a domino effect. It's clear to everyone. The Left Party's response to those who come to Sweden today and tomorrow is that we understand that it takes investments in them as people and in society as a whole to make this work. What do I mean by that? Well, I mean we shouldn't wait two years, until a person gets the residence permit that we know it will get, by letting the person start learning Swedish. It is quite important and an investment that we are already seeing will be needed. Let's start with it from the first day. That should be pretty obvious. This also means that from day one we should map out the type of knowledge that the person has and what might be needed to get into the labour market. The Swedish labour market today actually looks like we do have unemployment, but we also have a need for recruitment, especially in the intermediate situation. In addition, we have people who actually have middle skills but who have jobs where very low levels of education are sufficient. It is a mismatch that we must do something about. These are some of the things we need to do. And if you invest in both infrastructure and housing, it is not the case that other parts of society do not benefit, but for every construction worker five others also get jobs. This is not unknown. These are important and absolutely basic things that should not even be necessary to question. What happens from the bourgeois side all the time is that one first questions the common welfare and economic policy as a tool for building Sweden bigger and then rejects all the proposals. You can do that, but it's not my policy.
i-1c5b270610113148-132	Mr President, I would like to We are now in a situation where the people who are on the run in the world have never been more. Over 60 million people are on the run. We have also seen a lot of people coming to Sweden in recent months. Let me set out some starting points for the Liberals on our migration and integration policy and then say a few words about gender equality at the end. I don't have that many minutes at my disposal. We have a situation in which the European Union's key acts in the area of migration are de facto compromised. This means that a lot of people come to Sweden and Germany. At the same time, if the various EU rules were to be followed slavishly, there would be enormous pressure on Greece and Italy in particular. If you follow the EU's asylum rules slavishly, it will be an unreasonable edge for some southern European countries. And when this is completely out of play, the corresponding pressure on Sweden and Germany will instead. This isn't a system that works. Now the European Commission has to work on this until March, when I think there will be proposals on how to revise the Dublin Regulation and so on in order to have greater joint responsibility in Europe. In our party and in the Liberal Group in the European Parliament, the Alde Group, we want to see a development with greater joint responsibility and a more operational order. The second point that is important, Mr President, is that if we want to welcome many people into our country, we must also ensure that people enter the labour market. We need to lower the thresholds so that people can get jobs. We have put forward a number of proposals for this. These relate to tax incentives, regulatory simplifications, modernised labour law and so on. We are looking at a development where the pressure we now have with a great many people in the reception system will also increase pressure on job creation. This isn't just about highly educated people. We are very attached to the talk about validation in Sweden. But very many people who come to our country do not really have the language skills and professional skills that the Swedish labour market today demands. We need to be honest about the situation. It will take major changes for people to get in, and it is important that we make these changes. Mr President, I would like to A third point of departure that is important to us in the Liberals is the reform of the housing market. We need a freer lease. We need rules that make it more built and that the stock we have is managed more efficiently, so that more people can find housing. The fourth thing that is important to make integration work is that we clearly anchor democratic values. We do not want large areas of exclusion where values such as democracy, gender equality and secularism are threatened, where young girls feel that they do not have the freedom that they should have in Sweden and so on. It is also very important to strengthen the basic democratic values of social orientation. Mr President, I would like to I would also like to say a few words about equality, which is a little forgotten in this debate, which is certainly not entirely strange in view of the migration crisis we have. Nevertheless, we have taken a few steps to strengthen equality, not least now with the decision on a third father month, which we support in our party. But there are also some points where we are critical. We think, among other things, that it takes too long for the issue of pay surveys to be dealt with. The ability to change opinion sets the wise man apart from the stubborn one, as someone said. As far as the Alliance is concerned, we already decided in 2006 to remove a large part of the salary surveys, and that was not very good. From our party we have said that we want pay surveys every year. We think it is an important instrument. This distinguishes almost 4 million people in living income between men and women in Sweden. An average man in Sweden earns 3.6 million more during a working life than an average woman in Sweden. It doesn't make any sense. Of course, we must move forward in this area too.
i-1c5b270610113148-142	Mr President, I would like to As Fredrik Malm said, we are debating both gender equality and the establishment of newly arrived immigrants in connection with this report. These are two important areas, but perhaps it is right now that our time is mostly taken up by the refugee crisis that we have. People seek protection but also a future for themselves and their children. In 2015, about 150 000 people have applied for asylum in Sweden to date. How many will come next year is unclear, but probably the flow of refugees will not decrease significantly. We will therefore need to invest even more in the integration work and in strengthening the work for newcomers in Sweden. We must be able to do this quickly and effectively. Given the large number of people who come here, it will take considerable effort and resources, but also mobilisation throughout society, for it to work well. We Christian Democrats can be concerned about how the current government is acting, and that is precisely the question of integration. Above all, we do not think that the question of how new arrivals should get to work is taken seriously enough. For us Christian Democrats, the starting point for integration policy is that people must be able to take responsibility for their own lives. The anti-job policies generally pursued by the government risk reducing the number of jobs for newly arrived immigrants, for example by engaging in RUT services. Although small changes are being made, research has shown that they have a very negative impact on access and new employment in the sector. The government obviously does not see the need to reform and renew the employment service tool so that we have a modern and flexible employment service. Unless new arrivals quickly get a job or a traineeship, we risk many new arrivals getting caught up in long-term social and economic exclusion. It does not benefit the individual or society at large. Like the government, we believe that all municipalities must contribute. We are therefore in favour of a temporary law forcing municipalities to accept refugees. In order to strengthen the capacity of municipalities to receive newly arrived immigrants, we propose that the flat-rate allowance be increased, but not by as much as the government proposes. At the same time, however, we want to retain part of the performance-based part. We want both carrot and whip in the municipal reception. We share several of the Government's proposals regarding early interventions for new arrivals. We believe that skills mapping, validation and early language teaching, already in the housing facility, are important measures. The Christian Democrats have also put forward proposals for parents' leave to be prepared for studies in SFI that are adapted for families with children. We sometimes see that both parents are not able to participate because of having small children. We need to take action here. We also want to see more sfx, which is available in Stockholm County. I know that the municipality of Nacka is very good at it. It is Swedish education with a focus on professional language. We believe that it should be offered nationally as a supplement to the curriculum that municipalities are obliged to provide for SFI. Another proposal aimed at strengthening incentives to work is something that Göran Hägglund mentioned in an article last year. This is to reduce the start-up allowance slightly in order to put incentives on the job instead. This means that the person receiving a job will receive a tax exemption for a period of five years up to a certain limit by way of an establishment assignment. In this way, we create an incentive to move from grants to work. We share the government's view that the system of establishment slots should be abolished, as the report also refers to. At the same time, we know that many still need a type of support in establishing themselves in the labour market. The question is whether there is an alternative to this. Perhaps you could get a statement from the Social Democrats in this area. We are very pleased and welcome the great commitment that exists today in civil society. There are a number of people who have mentioned it. We see organisations and churches that are very committed to helping and receiving the refugees that are coming today. That is why we propose increased support for refugee guides and family contacts. It is important that they contribute to rapid establishment and integration through language training. It can be swimming instruction, homework and much more. We have therefore welcomed the measures proposed in the new budget by the agreement of SEK 200 million for civil society on 23 October. Mr President, I would like to Finally, before my speaking time is up: it is important that we continue to focus on the issue of gender equality. Despite a history of development in the field of gender equality and enormous progress in Sweden, which many look up to, every generation must be won again for the idea of real equality. There's still a lot of work to be done here. A serious problem that we raise in our own budget exercise is the representation of women among sick leavers and also early retirements, which is a threat. For this reason, we want more resources to be spent on prevention in the workplace. We believe that the Swedish Work Environment Authority has an important role to play there.
i-1c5b270610113148-155	Mr President, I would like to Sweden faces major challenges. In this difficult situation, it is of course important that we gather Sweden. It is good that we are many responsible parties, such as for talks about efforts, talks about the refugee situation. Better order is needed in the reception. The better integration works, the better society works, of course, which makes it work better for the individual. We have done a lot, but much more needs to be done. We know that we need to receive those who come to us much better and take advantage of their knowledge, and we need to equip them with the Swedish language. We know that Swedish is the key to entering the labour market and a prerequisite for becoming a part of society. The knowledge and experience that people who come to us carry with them is something that we need in the Swedish labour market. They must be taken care of. It is about validating, translating IDs and then adding what may be missing. Much more is required of us here. There are many good examples, just as has been described in the speaker's chair earlier today. There's a lot going on around the country. I have an example from Oskarshamn. Scania in Oskarshamn has difficulty recruiting staff. The company grows so creaks and has not been able to handle the personnel supply at the rate that the order books have been filled in. Part of the recruitment problem is about to be resolved. Lernia was commissioned by Scania to help them find technicians. It turned out that there was competence in the establishment, and it turned out that there were people who wanted and wanted to start working at Scania. In this situation Scania, Oskarshamn Municipality, Arbetsförmedlingen and Lernia sat down. The municipality needed to fix housing, which is not simply. Scania got to meet the applicants for a first interview. Lernia started recruiting teachers to quickly get started with Swedish education. A few weeks ago, when I had the chance to meet them in Oskarshamn, I met everyone involved. It was interesting and fun to meet them and see their enthusiasm. There was, like, no problem. There were only opportunities. But the most fun of that day was when I met the technicians. I met them at their Swedish education. They had been running for five weeks at that time. When they started five weeks earlier, interpreters were needed. Now they told me in Swedish. When, after our conversation, I wished them a nice weekend, because it was Friday afternoon when we parted, they said: Thank you the same! In five weeks, they had even broken some codes. Mr President, I would like to I was impressed. It also shows that it is possible. I left Oskarshamn completely convinced that it is possible to make fast tracks. It can be an excellent model. Mr President, I would like to The civ ila society makes a big initiative for a better and faster establishment. Refugee reception is a shared responsibility for society, and I am cruelly impressed by all the commitment we can see. But there is also frustration that there are municipalities that have not so far been involved in taking their share of the responsibility. We Social Democrats very much welcome the fact that we can now see that all municipalities are contributing. It is only when all municipalities are helped together that we can get the conditions for a really good establishment in society. Strengthening the resources of the Public Employment Service is also crucial to enable them to fulfil their difficult mission. Similarly, it is crucial that the municipalities receive compensation in order to fulfil their part of the task. That is why we welcome an increase in flat-rate payments to municipalities. This is something that Sweden's municipalities have longed for. In addition to financial resources, regulations must and can be simplified. We have to keep working on that. Arbetsförmedlingen has a large and important assignment. When we listen to them, with all the experience and skills they have, we see that we also need to give them better opportunities to do their part of the mission. In order to complete the mission, collaboration is required. It requires open minds and will. State, municipality and civil society must hook arms in this position. Mr President, I would like to In difficult situations, it is important that we gather Sweden, a Sweden without discrimination, racism and hostility. It is our responsibility to create the conditions for this. With this approval, I propose that the proposal should be approved.
i-1c5b270610113148-169	Mr President, I would like to I almost get mute from sitting h is and listen to your speech, Annelie Karlsson. You start from the budget that was put forward before the playing field was completely changed and we saw a huge increase in the number of asylum seekers coming to the country. What's the point is that you're a social democrat and here you represent the party that holds the prime minister's office. You have made a radical reversal and gone incredibly far to prevent people from coming to this country and seeking protection. You're standing here talking about things. It was nice that some of those things were in the budget. You highlighted good examples. The fast track will make a difference. At the same time, we see that, for example, Building refuses to be part of it. Maybe you could talk about it a little bit. Above all, I would like to hear you defend the policy that your government now wants to pursue. A majority of those who want to seek refuge in the country should not be allowed to come here at all. When we talk about integration or establishment, which is the subject here today, the question is: how will temporary residence permits affect people? They may sit insecure and insecure year after year, and they must not be reunited with their families. I got an email yesterday from my friend Ismael. It is three years' waiting time for his wife and their two small children to come to Sweden. What do you think of those things? You're talking about small things. But what about the really big things? Do you, as a representative of the Social Democrats, have nothing to say about that?
i-1c5b270610113148-174	Mr President, I would like to We Social Democrats take responsibility too much. However, we find it difficult to take responsibility for the fact that Europe has now stepped down from the agreement that we have made. We find it difficult to take responsibility for the fact that the rest of Europe does not take its share of the responsibility for refugee policy. We cannot be representatives of the whole of Europe. That is why we have ended up in the situation where we are. When it comes to integration into Swedish society, fast track, housing construction or joint efforts in education and jobs are not small things. Then that is what is traditional social democratic policy. We equip those who come to us with the same opportunity to enter the labour market with knowledge, experience and internships. It is not small things to train technicians in Oskarshamn. It is not small things to create fast tracks to get nurses into the care. We need them. It is not small things that we make sure to use those who come to us in the Swedish labour market. It is a very strange rhetoric when you say about refugee policy that we should no longer have integration. We are talking about integration.
i-1c5b270610113148-177	Mr President, I would like to I think Annelie Karlsson was sitting in the room when I made my speech earlier. My whole speech was about these very things – how people should get into the labour market and all the good examples that exist. I'm sure your example is also a good thing that we should look at and follow. That somehow I would have said that we should not have establishment or integration measures – come on, it is clear that I am not talking about it in the head! What I was wondering was the shift that has now taken place and the radical change that your party has made. Just a few weeks ago, you stood there and said, "We can do this." This is going well. Sweden together. We're gonna fix this. That's what you're influencing, too. If we all roll up our sleeves, we'll fix this. We need these people. Now you have gone to say: No, we do not need these people. We do not want them to come, and we will do what we can to take away from them the opportunities to come at all. And we will make it more difficult for those who are already here to reunite with their families. I ask you: how will it affect the things that you talk about that are good, but that in the context of this debate and after this autumn are things that we have already talked about many times? Then the question is what do you have to say about the change? I'm asking you again.
i-1c5b270610113148-180	Mr President, I would like to We haven't made these decisions in the last few weeks because we think it's fun, Johanna Jönsson. We have made the decisions so that it is necessary for us to take responsibility for those who come to us. We will ensure that there is a bed to sleep in, and we will ensure that there are conditions for social support, for getting medical care and for getting to work. We are not at all interested in lowering labour market thresholds because we want to give people the right to a job where they can make a living. It is about the right to a job where you can have the opportunity to write a rental agreement, get the right to go to the bank and maybe borrow money for your first car or whatever people now dream of doing. We do not want second-class workers, but we want people who come to us to have conditions in the Swedish labour market just like everyone else. Then we must have a system that enables us to do so. People must have a place to live, and people must be given the opportunity to get a job. That is exactly what we have been talking about here today. I have been in the Chamber all day; Johanna Jönsson does not have to worry about that. I have listened to the debate. It has also been about how we ensure that we create the conditions for housing construction and how we ensure that people enter the labour market. There is a clear dividing line between the bourgeoisie and us Social Democrats. It is about how things should be arranged in the labour market. You say lower thresholds! This means lower wages and lower employment conditions. We say that we should equip people with knowledge so that we can compete on the same terms. It is a traditional social democratic labour market policy, and it covers everyone in our society.
i-1c5b270610113148-185	Mr President, I would like to I believe that we can agree on one thing, regardless of the political colour and direction of the debate, in any case: this autumn will certainly go down in history. I think there were quite a few of us who could say for quite some time that we've done this before. In 1992 we received 84 000 refugees from the Balkan war. It was something completely different from what we are facing now. However, just the fact that we are discussing a budget presented on 21 September, just before we started to see figures of around 10 000 a week, makes it clear that this is something completely new that we are facing in our country. Only this week we believe that the figure will go over 150 000 people. So it is almost twice as many as we received in 1992, to which we often refer as a record year. I'm proud of that. Before I go into what I want to say about the report, I would like to thank all those who have made this possible. They have worked in shifts, day and night, on our authorities and in our civil society. They've been at our central stations. It applies to all teachers who make sure that students get into school. This also applies, in particular, to religious communities, which have taken great responsibility for people fleeing both through our country and to our country. Part of our society that has noticed the fairly big change that we are now seeing is our municipalities. We often talk about them, but I think we can talk about them even more because I see that there is so much positive being done there. I had the privilege of visiting Köping earlier this autumn. I will not in any way devalue Köping, but it is after all a small society that has had a migration for quite some time. Köping has made sure to take advantage of the people who come to our country and who have a medical competence that we lack. If you visit the hospital in Köping, which I think everyone should do, you can quite soon at this time of day visit the first lesson in Swedish. If you wait until after lunch you can see that there is also another class, namely medical Swedish and professional Swedish. There you will find people in the classroom who are surgeons, dentists, general physicians, specialists, nurses and really all kinds of medically knowledgeable people who have recently come here and now want to take this with them into our society. I met a woman from Syria who had come here some or a few years ago with her husband. She was a trained doctor herself. She had first come to Malmö, where she had planned to spend her time in Sweden and build up her life. But when she heard about this education and that this could be the way in also for her to be able to get a job faster, she decided that it was Köping she would move to, simply. She had come quite far with her Swedish, but she had a piece left. However, there were three words that she said time and again: I want to work, I want to work! I think this is exactly how we have to look at the people who come here and those who are here now and are going into the Swedish labour market. These are people with skills, and we'll take care of them. There is hardly any county council in Sweden today that has the necessary skills supply. Instead, you have to pay expensive money for relay doctors and similar things that you could have used for better care – despite the fact that we now have so many who come with this medical background. Although much is being done in our municipalities, in civil society, in business and in politics, we absolutely should not close our eyes to the fact that much more is needed. For quite some time there has been a huge gap in employment rates between those born in Sweden and those born elsewhere. That is something we can never accept, especially not at a time when so many have come here. We cannot have people who are competent, skilled and driven sitting passively in our asylum accommodations, for example. We cannot have people who have medical skills and who are forced to work with something they are completely overqualified for. If you also look at the gap between foreign born men and women you can see that it is even bigger. We must take this as seriously as possible. I really believe that all parties will have to question their policies and develop them, because this is something completely new that we are facing. On the one hand, we have the labour market, which will be very important, and on the other hand, the housing situation, where I think we will soon not have a single municipality saying that they can handle it as it is today. Today, communities with high migration rates have a housing queue for the first time in 10, 20 or 30 years. I am therefore pleased that there are many proposals in the report and in the Government's autumn budget proposal for next year. It takes the issues of housing investment and investment aid seriously. It is also a question of using the existing housing stock. It will soon be proposed that individuals can rent out to asylum seekers. It is also about the labour market and fast track in terms of validation, for example, in the agreement with the four alliance parties. It concerns a broader RUT deduction, which I believe will be an important part, increased the standard for municipalities in terms of receiving asylum seekers and 10 billion for municipalities and civil society in this acute situation. Much is therefore being done, but much more will have to be done. I think somewhere in situations like this we are forced to be extra creative and question the systems we have and develop them. That is also how we can build a much better society with the help of all those who have come here.
i-1c5b270610113148-197	Mr President, I would like to In her speech, Magda Rasmusson focused on those with higher education in medicine and so on. At the same time, we know from the figures that can be found in our own budget that the proportion of those who have an academic education, for example in the best educated group that is coming at the moment, from Syria, is at around 10%. Only 10% have an academic education. Therefore, it will be not only a fast track but a slant in the debate to focus on the group that will probably have it quite easy to get into the Swedish labour market. Historically, Sweden has been rather much worse at getting academics and higher educated into the labour market, but that has changed. We do not notice it aggregated in the statistics because the proportions have changed. There are more low-skilled people coming now than ever. 53 percent have primary education or less from a school system that is not even close to ours. I know there are black headlines about PISA and all that, but despite that, they're not even close to our school system. The Green Party, which is in charge of the training portfolio, is quite unanswered about this. What do you want to do to enable the large group of low-skilled, mainly women, who have been denied education during childhood to study? We see in the figures that only 7% goes on to studies. You can't talk about matching or mismatching then, because Arbetsförmedlingen can't conjure with her knees. A low-skilled person with, for example, a six-year primary education cannot match out on the labour market with any CV courses and coaching. It's not working.
i-1c5b270610113148-201	Mr President, I would like to I think you're raising an important issue. Those who are farthest from the labour market are clearly those who lack education. They may never have attended school and may not even be able to write in their own language. There we know that women are over-represented. I believe that it will be a major part of social development and the construction of a new Sweden to ensure that they also have opportunities in the Swedish labour market. There are people in Sweden who may not even have gone into town, because they do not dare to take the bus because they cannot read the signs and do not have the language. They are trapped in their own home, and we know that it affects women above all. This has been the case for a long time. You in the Moderates have also lifted the education obligation when it comes to ensuring that people have primary education. Several municipalities already work like that today. Borås is an example. There you make sure that municipal residents actually have primary education, which often means alphabetization and such things. This was part of the agreement that our parties signed over a month ago. This is definitely something we need to work on, but I think it also applies to vocational training and validation. This is partly done in the fast track, but I believe that the investment in vocational training that is included here will be important. One must be able to have a shorter way into the labour market and not have to go all the way with long periods of education.
i-1c5b270610113148-205	Mr President, I would like to One prerequisite for being able to take part in an education is of course that you get a municipal placement, which unsearched for us into MP's second portfolio, namely the one that Mehmet Kaplan manages as Minister of Housing. It feels like the Green Party, thanks to the Social Democrats, has now realised the seriousness of the situation, but where are the housing policy proposals? All the measures we are discussing here presuppose that people have a roof over their heads and a municipal placement. When we should discuss how the housing is to be made and so on, unfortunately, you are completely unanswered. You're talking about small amounts of subsidies to be sent out, but if you translate it into the number of apartments, it's not even close to meeting the needs that exist right now. What's the Green Party doing? You scream and cry and are angry and sad that we are closing the borders, but if you do not want to reduce the volumes of asylum reception, you should increase the volumes of housing construction in parity with your desire to increase asylum reception. Where are the eco-partisan homes? It's not good enough to do as it is today. Täby is a good example. Täby's environmentalist municipal councillor goes out and saws the Moderates because they want to close the borders, and when the counter-question is posed that the Environmental Party has been against all housing projects in the municipality, the answer is: Yes, but then we have to build in green areas, and we find that a bit difficult. What do you want to preserve? Is it green areas or the right to asylum?
i-1c5b270610113148-208	Mr President, I would like to I do not know if Mr Bali was present just now when I gave my opening speech, where I was clear that I believe that the political proposals on the table will not actually be enough. I say this for a reason, and it is not because I am ashamed of the history of our party when it comes to making new proposals, but because we are in a completely new situation. That's my main point. You have to dare to think new and question old systems and how you thought before. I think all parties have a big job to do there. How are we going to get more temporary housing, for example? How should we review the regulatory framework? It was also a proposal that was included in the agreement that our parties reviewed. I'm getting a little tired of the constant criticism that you're making about the Green Party saying no to all housing. Your party leader recently stood and lied in a party leader debate that the Environmental Party in Jönköping had voted against because of a beetle. It was just to go to the sources and see that it wasn't true. The Green Party had voted in favour of those homes. I think you should have some ice in your stomach. Everyone can do more at this point, and I think we should rather discuss proposals. I think the Sta d environmental agreements are very important. I believe that investment support will mean a lot to those small municipalities that currently lack funding but want to build when they have so many new inhabitants. Rather, the remarkable thing about this debate is that you have not mentioned a single housing proposal that you want to see. Instead, your party wants to close the line. Everyone has a job to do here, and I think that's the important conclusion.
i-1c5b270610113148-214	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Magda Rasmusson, for your post! You talked a lot about professional Swedish, that is language education with a focus on professional skills, and that made me a little curious. This is something we have proposed in our motion. I know that the bourgeois community of Nacka has been working on this for a long time, and there are others who should. We propose that some type of national system be introduced so that this is available in all municipalities. My question to Magda Rasmusson, who talks a lot about this, is: What suggestions do you have in this area? Do you have a motion of your own? I haven't found anything, but maybe there's somewhere but I haven't discovered it. That would be interesting to know.
i-1c5b270610113148-216	Mr President, I would like to There are several parts relating to Swedish education in the draft budget, and of course we are pleased about them. This concerns both the early interventions in asylum accommodation and the fast track, some of which lead to faster entry into work. I have said this once and can say it again: all the proposals that we believe shorten the way from coming here to getting a job are good. I welcome the fact that you have such a proposal and are willing to take part in it and see if that is something that my party can agree with. Hopefully it can happen if it's something good. Creativity, flexibility, to question what we have stood for before and to come up with new ideas is something for which all parties have responsibility. But I look forward to reading it.
i-1c5b270610113148-219	Mr President, I would like to I thank you for that answer and continue my lobbying. As far as families with children are concerned, we have proposed that the possibility for both parents in families with children to have access to SFIs should be extended by some form of support – babysitting, babysitting or any other opportunity to participate in the SFI even if you have young children. That's another thing. Maybe Magda Rasmusson can comment on how she views it. Another issue in the Christian Democrats' budget that you in the Green Party might also be interested in is public transport in rural areas. We propose SEK 50 million per year during 2016 – 2019 to develop it. We will have to distribute people all over the country so that all municipalities take care of their part. Then many will end up outside the big cities, in smaller towns. Then the question is whether we can improve labour market opportunities by having better public transport in rural areas. We think it's necessary. I would like a comment from Magda Rasmusson and the Green Party on how they view this issue.
i-1c5b270610113148-224	Mr President, I would like to Désirée Pethrus raises two important issues there too. Parents care a lot about their children and want them to have a good time. If the children are not well off during the day, if you cannot find preschool or school places for the children, the parents will find it difficult to complete their establishment plan or get a job and so on. It is also something that strikes women particularly hard, as we know, taking the primary responsibility for the children. I know that many municipalities are looking at different solutions. It is perhaps something that also needs to be supported from the state side. As far as public transport is concerned, I clearly believe that it is an important part. I believe once again that the urban environment agreements can be part of supporting municipalities and county councils to make investments. This can be about public transport, which of course makes it easier for everyone who lives there. I know that many county councils go ahead there – Kalmar is one – and ensure that asylum seekers have access to a driving card that gives them the opportunity to travel. Something that has happened during the autumn, which I was into earlier, is that people now live in places where they have not lived before. On ski resorts, far from the nearest community, live people seeking asylum. The whole country has been vacuumed in search of premises. And they have often been found outside the local centre, where the labour market, opportunities for SFI and that kind of thing exist. We're gonna have to watch all this. It will be an important part. Our politicians who govern at municipal and county level also have a great responsibility to ensure that it works. If they make it work, people will also stay to a greater extent. I think the politicians understand that this is a positive thing.
i-1c5b270610113148-232	Mr President, I would like to I heard you tell me about Köping, Magda Rasmusson. I have also been to Köping and met the doctors and health professionals – those who have just the health professions that require identification are not just doctors. They're about 40 people. And I don't share the picture you give of the positive feeling in the room. When I was there, there was rather a strong frustration in the majority over how complicated it is. Many of them had been in the country for many years and several times tried to get their professions validated but could not. Often they do not get internships because the trade unions in the workplace are opposed to being able to get out early. These are extremely high demands on the Swedish language so that you can take the proficiency test at all and so on. When we talk about lower thresholds to the labour market, it is about that, among other things. It's about a lot of other things, too. But it's about making it easier for people to get in. We heard your colleague, who is in the government, from the Social Democrats say that we should not give any thresholds in Sweden and that we do not want an A- and a B-team in Sweden. Everyone should be at exactly the same high quality level as we have kept all along. This has led to exactly what you were talking about, namely a staffet physician, a lack of staff in health care, and so on. My question to you is whether the Green Party is also behind this view of people now. Is it better that Sweden has an A-team and an Ö-team, which is outside the Swedish borders, than an A- and possibly a B-team, with people who still have the opportunity to enter the labour market and can work further, learn Swedish in a workplace, actually get in? Should we not therefore improve the system as a whole?
i-1c5b270610113148-237	Mr President, I would like to What I experienced in Köping was a positive feeling that people want to enter the labour market. Many times they have left their families to go to Köping right now and educate themselves. I think we should accept that. But I clearly agree that they were also frustrated. Someone said: I submitted my application to the National Board of Health and Welfare months ago. I don't even get an answer. I can't even call a case officer because they're so overloaded. The latest task I have is that there are 16 case officers sitting with thousands of cases. And we know that number is increasing all the time. We must correct that! I am therefore pleased that more money is being spent on this area, so that the National Board of Health and Welfare can fulfil its mission in a good way. At the same time, our politicians, our colleagues, in our county councils must take greater responsibility for this. Many say that it is easier to get an internship in a private company than to turn to the public. We can't have it that way. We must have a system that is capable of giving people a faster way in. I did not understand that my colleague meant it in the way Johanna Jönsson says. I am convinced that we all want people to have a good life in Sweden and that we will strengthen people's opportunities. My position is that among other things a broader RUT deduction – a question that Johanna Jönsson's party also runs – is something good. It makes people get a shorter way in. But we must be able to do both. We must make sure that the opportunities for this type of job are increased, as we are now doing with that change. But, of course, we must also invest in people and increase mobility opportunities and make progress. Sweden should be a country of opportunity for all, regardless of the background.
i-1c5b270610113148-243	Mr President, I would like to It sounds very nice that Sweden should be a country of opportunity for everyone. At the same time, you have just agreed to changes, Magda Rasmusson, which will mean that a majority of those who are now coming to seek asylum in Sweden will not have the legal opportunity to enter to seek asylum. I wonder, of course, how you view it when it comes to integration. I asked the Social Democrats the same question. It will again be strange to stand here and not take up that change, which you have now been involved in. You must therefore reasonably be able to argue for why you have agreed to it. Previously, I mentioned Ismael who e-mailed me yesterday. I met him last spring at the asylum home where he lived. Since then, he has been granted his residence permit. He got it in September, and he was overjoyed about it. He has since day one helped for free, including in the municipality, to help, among other things, at the asylum accommodation where he interprets because he speaks English. Ismael is a doctor, one of those you talked about earlier. Even his wife is a doctor, a pediatrician. She is attached to the border with Turkey, in Syria, along with their two small children. Ismael is not one of those included in your new proposals for rules that would make it completely impossible for him to reunite with his family. However, the Migration Agency has now said that the waiting period is three years. In his e-mail to me he wrote that the only possibility he sees to be with his family is to try to get back to Syria. How do you think these things will affect integration, all the nice things you said about fast track and that we're gonna get rid of the relay doctors by giving these people a way in? What do you think of those things?
i-1c5b270610113148-248	Mr President, I would like to No, it's not something I think will make it easier. I'll be honest with you, too. I think this is the toughest decision my party has ever made. It's a great sadness to have to understand that. I think you also see the political reality we have right now, Johanna Jönsson. I think you, like me, are seeing a reality where our parties have to do everything we can to increase capacity, so that we don't have to have that law anymore. I'm worried it might otherwise be permanent. I believe that all parties defending the right to asylum will continue to argue for it. The asylum course is still there, and it's very important. We have a great responsibility to come up with proposals on how to build up an increased capacity in our reception system. We must ensure that there is a good establishment on the ground. This legislation should not last longer than the temporary period in which it is intended to operate. We must also all see that it is people who have come here and that we must now ensure that they enter our society. Soon 150 000 people have made their way to our country and applied for asylum. They must be able to have a good and secure future in Sweden.
i-1c5b270610113148-252	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is facing a large building of society. Sweden changes and must change because reality changes. It is a fundamentally positive process with great opportunities. Every human being is a resource. This also applies to each of those who come to Sweden now and seek protection. But of course it also poses a huge challenge for our society. At this point there is a need for innovation, pragmatism and cooperation between parties and between different parts of society. I would like to add my voice to the thanks that Magda Rasmusson has made to the many people who are currently doing a great job both professionally and on a voluntary basis in our country. We are living in a very serious time. War, oppression, terrorism and persecution have forced more than 60 million people to flee. That is what the refugee crisis is about. It is about people's struggle for survival, security, freedom and a future for their children. It is a small part of the world's refugees who come to Europe. However, today, a disproportionately large proportion of those who come to the EU are forced to seek protection in Sweden because other countries do not accept their responsibilities. If all the countries of Europe had stood up in the same way as Sweden, then it would have been no difficulty to be able to accept the people who seek protection in Europe. Unfortunately, we have a completely different situation. Sweden has had a large refugee reception throughout history. The reception of refugees is now record-breaking. We're gonna make it. It is the government's view that we will continue to be able to manage to have a large refugee reception. But we are now in a situation where we need breathing space. In recent months, the situation has put serious pressure on the Swedish systems. We want to ensure a good reception and a good chance of a new life in Sweden for all the people who come here. The situation we have at the moment is that we cannot even give shelter over our heads and a bed to all those seeking asylum. Responsible authorities such as the Migration Agency and the Social Services report an unsustainable situation in many parts of the country where you cannot or cannot give vulnerable children the protection and assistance they are entitled to. The Swedish Civil Protection Agency has submitted very serious progress reports to the Government. It is against this background that the government has now presented a number of very tough measures. We should be honest that the purpose of the measures is for fewer people now to apply for asylum in Sweden and for more people to apply for asylum in another EU country. We feel compelled to do so, because Sweden is so alone in a situation where other EU countries do not assume their responsibilities. We need a breathing room to manage to provide a good reception for all those who have already come to Sweden. We must also be able to build capacity in order to continue to have a generous asylum policy. As I said, the situation makes great demands. The way into the labour market is absolutely central. For this to work, more housing needs to be built. Therefore, the government invests record resources in housing construction. We will also have to do more in this area. We have put forward a proposal for a new law that all municipalities should take joint responsibility for the reception of new arrivals. It is important to take account of the labour market situation, which affects the possibility of establishment. We're making big bets on the school. We increase the compensation to the municipalities by 50 percent. We increase the compensation for children seeking asylum at school by 50%. We are giving great resources to civil society. We provide additional resources of 10 billion for emergency situations in the municipalities. We are investing a lot in early intervention for asylum seekers. Let me say something about the labour market. It is, of course, linked to the fact that everything else works. Those who come here, Mr President, have very different conditions. I think everyone realises that it is a big mistake to treat people equally when they have such different conditions. Therefore, it is important to remove the system of establishment slots that gave everyone the same effort. Instead, we want people to be treated more individually. It is therefore important to change the highly centralised rules during the start-up period so that there is greater flexibility. It is also important that we invest much more in education. My ambition is, normally, that we should be able to get people into work and education during the two-year period of establishment. This is, of course, a very difficult task and a very ambitious objective. At the same time, it is hard to see that waiting would make it easier. It is a growing proportion of higher education graduates and highly educated who come to Sweden. Therefore, the government is investing heavily in supplementary education. We invest a lot of resources in UHR and the National Board of Health and Welfare to shorten the processing times. We are investing new resources in validation. We are investing more in the fast track where the parties show a great deal of commitment to getting people into new professions. We are investing in a combination of vocational training and basic education for the many people who have a very poor educational background, or perhaps no education at all, when they come to Sweden. We are making special efforts with regard to newly arrived young people under the 90-day guarantee and the effort we are making to combat youth unemployment. We provide new opportunities for training in all aspects of labour market policy. This applies, in particular, to the proposal on training requirements for newcomers with a low level of education. We're investing in an early mapping. There are many good examples of how to find the right skills in asylum homes. Unfortunately, the right skills have been found much like finding a needle in a haystack by sitting on it. This needs to be systematised so that the right skills come to the right place faster. Therefore, we are now working on a new mapping tool that will be available in mobile phones. Already during the asylum period, each person can put in his/her CV there. As I see it, we have achieved a very good sex party agreement on several important proposals that will facilitate establishment and which we are now working on. Mr President, I would like to We're going to have to do more. Reality is changing all the time, and we are facing huge challenges. As I began by saying, this work will require innovation. Pragmatism and cooperation will be required. The task is big and difficult. But it is pleasing to take on.
i-1c5b270610113148-281	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister for Employment, for pointing that out. I think we share the problem picture and the challenge we face. Sweden alone cannot accept all asylum seekers who come to the EU. Freedom of movement has become a challenge. You can understand that people choose to come to Sweden. Sweden is a fantastic country. We have a secure and sound economic development that continues after the Alliance built a strong and stable foundation for this. One thing we also introduced was the establishment reform where we had the work line in focus so that Arbetsförmedlingen would quickly get new arrivals into work. Then we come to the question that we from the Alliance have discussed on a number of occasions. We want to see a reform of the Employment Service. We think it's necessary. The Christian Democrats already proposed in 2008 that the Public Employment Service be opened up to competition. I realise that it is not an easy job, but I believe that more players are needed. Sometimes municipalities also take over in some places. When you do not think that Arbetsförmedlingen is fast enough, the municipality actually does the work of Arbetsförmedlingen. The question is what else we can do to broaden it. I do not think that the big colossus Arbetsförmedlingen with some internal change work can meet the challenge that exists. My first question to the Minister is how she views Arbetsförmedlingen. My second question concerns what I was talking about earlier, the RUT services. Every time some type of change or deterioration is proposed, there is concern in the ranks and companies stop hiring new workers. It affects all those who are newly arrived. It was precisely that sector that we wanted to keep, or rather expand, so that more people could get to work. How does the Minister for Labour view RUT services, and how do we get them to increase rather than decrease?
i-1c5b270610113148-289	Mr President, I would like to The Public Employment Service is in great need of reform, and this is being done. Reform, however, is not the same as opening up to competition. The employment services are now undergoing major changes. I am liberalising the Employment Service, and we are seeing a major change in their way of working. Not least, there is a greater focus on employers' needs, which I see as crucial. At the end of the day, employers are supposed to employ, so it is important that the Employment Service meets employers' needs and has greater flexibility in the way it works. I would like to see Arbetsförmedlingen cooperate with private and independent actors, but I do not see a future in which Arbetsförmedlingen is exposed to competition. However, I see the need for a comprehensive review of the role and mission of the Public Employment Service in the future. Therefore, the government will set up a major investigation into the role of the Employment Service. As far as RUT services are concerned, they will be expanded. This is part of the deal that the Christian Democrats, among other things, have been involved in meeting with the government. I would also like to take this opportunity, Mr President, to respond to Mrs Pethrus' previous question on sfx, vocational sfi. There is today and works very well in the Stockholm area, because the municipalities there cooperate. All municipalities in the Stockholm area cooperate and can allocate their resources jointly. It is a very well-functioning operation. The government is now working to make it happen in more places in the country. It is not included in the report because it does not require any legislative changes or new initiatives from Parliament. Instead, greater practical cooperation is needed around the country so that it is in place. We will invite you to county-specific conferences, where the municipalities and the state participate jointly in each county. How best to organize sfi and sfx is one of the issues that will be discussed.
i-1c5b270610113148-295	Mr President, I would like to That is great, and I am very grateful to the Minister for bringing it up and will push the issue of professional Swedish. As far as RUT services are concerned, it is right that we have included this in the agreement. I hope that the issue will now remain secure and that there will be an extension. We will need every single job in that sector to get people to work, to get their first work experience. I hope that the Minister will ensure that there are no changes, because the slightest change is causing great concern. Even now we can see how many a little bit put the lid on. You don't recruit in RUT companies. It's a huge threat. As far as the reform of the Employment Service is concerned, it is possible that we will not get any further. The Minister for Labour says she wants to reform the Employment Service, which is a giant colossus. Sure, you can control giant blocks in different ways, but I think the Arbetsförmedlingen would benefit from more players in the market. I was with the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Labour at a seminar with Almega. It emerged that several entrepreneurs have great ideas about how people should get into work, how those who stand far from getting in. They have a lot of ideas. Why shouldn't we take care of them even more? I do not mean that the Employment Service should be closed down, but I think there is a need for some kind of opportunity for people to choose for themselves which actor they want. It should not be Arbetsförmedlingen that constantly chooses which actor I should have, but I will get more power to be able to choose between different actors with different orientations.
i-1c5b270610113148-300	Mr President, I would like to As far as the Employment Service is concerned, let me say that they are in a big change. Although it is a very large authority with many employees, I get, fortunately, frequent reports from employers saying that they notice the difference, that it is now another type of authority they have to deal with, that they are being treated differently. There is greater flexibility. The same thing I encounter from the municipalities, who say that there has been a difference. That doesn't mean everyone noticed it everywhere. As I said, it is a large authority, but it is possible to see a real difference in the way the Public Employment Service works. Of course, the ability of different actors to equip people to enter the labour market and contribute to matching should be taken into account. I see it as an important role for Arbetsförmedlingen to be a hub in such cooperation. However, it is always important to have employers' perspectives with them. Employers should not have to go around among a variety of employment intermediaries in order to find the right skills. That must be the role of Arbetsförmedlingen. There must be a door in for employers so that they can get the skills they need. Finally, Mr President, as I said earlier, it is part of the agreement between six parties to extend the RUT services. At the same time, I would like to call on Mrs Pethrus and the Christian Democrats to look at other things, other than tax cuts, in order to find, by being pragmatic, new ways into the labour market for newcomers.
i-1c5b270610113148-304	Mr President, I would like to Ylva Johansson was about equipping people into the labour market through education and so on. It is gratifying that she mentions the education obligation, as proposed by the Moderates. We got it through at the meeting, and a week later there was an agreement between six parties. It is gratifying, but it is sad that education is not included in the budget. If you want education, it's in the Moderate budget it's found. Another important factor, besides equipping people, is how many people choose to take part in education. Here it will be depressing numbers, because only 7 percent choose to proceed to studies after two years of establishment. One might ask whether the establishment programme is perhaps too short. Ylva Johansson has boldly proclaimed – and that is good – that in two years everyone should be in work or education. But that's not how the numbers look. Rather, we see that the level of education of the population groups that is now coming means that we need to extend the establishment to three years, as the Moderates propose. It would also relieve municipalities by not having to provide support and other services. It would be interesting to hear how the Social Democrats reason when they have a two-year establishment while there is an increasingly lower level of education among those who come and are to be educated. Education is not something that happens in a flash, but it takes time. I would therefore like to hear a little bit about how the Social Democrats think about it.
i-1c5b270610113148-308	Mr President, I would like to These are important issues raised by Mr Bali. Let me first make a correction. It is not that there are more and more people with low education coming to Sweden. On the contrary, the general level of education is increasing. The proportion of those with higher education is increasing and has done so over time. We do not have statistics on those coming in the autumn, but over the last period we have seen an increase in the share of higher education. This does not mean that it is not a major challenge for those who come and have low levels of education. In addition, many of those with low levels of education have very low levels of education. I share the view that everyone who has come and has a low level of education must enter education. This should be an important part of the establishment plan. I would like to say to Mr Bali that during the eight years that the Moderates had the opportunity to run the country, and also introduced the establishment reform, less than 1% of those who participated in the establishment reform took part in education in addition to SFI. It is a horrendously low level given the educational background of many of those who are coming. This also applies to those with higher education, for many people need supplementary education. It is a terrible low level and has to do with the way in which the establishment mission has been rigged. Therefore, we need to make changes and meet people more individually. We are investing heavily in education. We need to do it, and we have to do it already during the start-up mission. We need to see more people moving on to education. Also 7 per cent is a very low figure. This has to do with, among other things, losing one's remuneration if one moves on to education. We must therefore find a way to make it sustainable to move forward. What we are now looking at, when we are making changes in the start-up mission, is what creates greater flexibility to enable people to meet more individually. I would also like to answer the question of time. Yeah, two years is a short time. At the same time, I would like to say to Mr Bali that if we extend the time to three years, there is a great risk that the intensity will decrease. I do not think that the two years currently in force are being used optimally. On the contrary, there is a great deal of time going on over the two years, and I am concerned that three years would extend that time further.
i-1c5b270610113148-312	Mr President, I would like to It is interesting how Ylva Johansson addresses this with thresholds and incentives. She says that you lose your remuneration if you move on to education and so on. This is what is called marginal effects, i.e. thresholds. So it is acknowledged that there are such obstacles — thresholds that hold people back — on the educational side. At the same time, however, Annelie Karlsson stands in the speaker's chair and says that she is not at all interested in lowering the thresholds in the labour market. It is thus recognised that thresholds can prevent people from training, but it is not recognised that lower thresholds can help bring more people into the labour market. This is very interesting. Then it also has to do with how the SFI system and our entire education system are rigged up: It is important that you have Swedish in place first before you start studying something else, such as mathematics. It's a illogical system. Often the last thing that comes into place is the Swedish language, but you can study mathematics or other subjects in your own language or any other language. We have opened up digital distance learning within SFI to just relieve SFI. It's something I think the government is missing. Of course we're going to lift people. It's the only way we can do this. We have to lift people. But we will not be able to do that unless we also lower thresholds, and here the Social Democrats lack answers. We've done our homework. In the past, we talked almost only about lower thresholds, but now we are also talking about education. But when are the Social Democrats going to start talking about lower thresholds?
i-1c5b270610113148-317	Mr President, I would like to It would be nice if Hanif Bali actually acknowledged that several of the serious thresholds that exist were created by the previous government, for example several of the thresholds into education or the almost non-existent paths into education that existed within the establishment mission. This is something you handed over to us. I also listened to Fredrik Malm here earlier. He said in a good way that parties sometimes have to rethink and see that what you thought would be good didn't turn out as good as you imagined. In fact, many of the thresholds that exist have been created. I also listened to Annelie Karlsson. She said: We do not want to remove thresholds in a way that means that people should live on low wages that you cannot make a living on. I share that view. There are several ways to cross different thresholds. One way is to give the individual different opportunities for action to get over. One could be to reduce the cost of wages for those who find it difficult to enter the labour market. Among those who currently have entry-level jobs, it is a significant proportion that receives up to 85% of the employer's total wage cost in subsidy. When it is used to a rather limited extent, as it is today, is it really the cost of wages that is the problem, or is it something else? I think that we need to be a little more pragmatic and transparent because it can actually be other than the cost of wages that may be obstacles to entering the labour market.
i-1c5b270610113148-321	Mr President, I would like to I have already taken quite a lot of time in this debate, so I will therefore try to be brief. There's a lot I could ask about, but I'll stick to one thing. This is something that has worried me a bit – I heard it both at the press conference that the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister held a while ago, and I now hear it again from Ylva Johansson : We are reducing the number of applicants for asylum in Sweden and removing the opportunity for a lot of people to apply, but we are doing it on the basis that other EU countries will do more. That's the condition. This is a way of fooling the Swedish people. Because there are no other EU countries that stand up and say: Yes, we will take care of these people instead, and they will be able to have a safe life with us! What we see instead is a domino effect. Denmark has been extremely clear that it is not prepared to take care of more people in any way. Germany is doing all it can to reduce the number. Country after country in the EU is now doing what they can to reduce the pressure on asylum seekers and reduce the number of asylum seekers, just as the government is now trying to do for Sweden. On Monday, the agreement between the EU and Turkey was finalised. My friends in the human rights organisations there immediately reported how the Turkish border guard gathered people together and put them in repatriation camps, locked up to be sent back. Many of them are people who would actually have been protected if they had been able to get here. They're not going to get it now. When I asked the Prime Minister about this, he said that Estonia had said that more could be received. It was the only country he had to come with. Estonia has said that 349 people can be accommodated for two years. My simple question is therefore: why did Ylva Johansson once again say that other EU countries will do more?
i-1c5b270610113148-326	Mr President, I would like to I think Johanna Jönsson listened poorly to my speech. I said that we are doing this because other EU countries are not shouldering their responsibilities. Sweden and the Swedish Government have stood up for a very generous asylum policy because we believe in it. We want it, and we want to protect the people who seek protection. It's our will. We have invested a lot of energy in persuading, threatening and making demands on other EU countries. We have invested a lot of energy in working in the international community to improve the way in which responsibility for asylum seekers is better distributed. We've had little response. On the contrary, we have seen an opposite trend. I agree with what Mr Malm said here earlier, namely that we now see that large parts of the EU's system for dealing with this is cracking and falling apart. And the solution to the fact that the EU system does not work – that other countries do not take responsibility – is not that Sweden has unlimited opportunities to receive people for a very short time. We must also look at what is realistic for a country like Sweden. I am extremely saddened by what I see happening today in Europe. I am saddened by how this works in the Union in which I myself believe a great deal and which is based on values I do not see much of in practice today. There are a few countries that stand up for those values. I find it very sad and worrying. We are saddened that we do not see the EU countries taking on the responsibilities that Europe could bear. We could manage the refugees who come to Europe if we helped each other. Unfortunately, we do not, and this has made the situation untenable for Sweden at the moment. We need a breathing room.
i-1c5b270610113148-331	Mr President, I would like to A breathing room, says the Minister. We need a breathing room. What kind of breathing room do the people who are not being let out of the countries where they are suffering unbelievably badly need? Our system, our migration agency and our courts believe that these people cannot remain in these countries – in Syria, in Afghanistan or in Iran, where some are sent back even though they are not there. Those people can't breathe in this. I hear this repeated time and again, breathing room. As if it was just turning down the tap, and so these people do not exist for a moment! That is why the rhetoric of the European Union has disturbed me. It makes it appear that this can be done in a humane way. I can't do that! You should be very clear about that here. These people are going to be incredibly hurt in this situation. There are many thousands of people who will now be kept out – with the identification requirements imposed and with the rules for family immigration that will lead to families being separated, kept apart and having nowhere to be reunited. These people you say we should now take a breather from, but they are there anyway. Although they do not exist on our geographical territory, they do exist elsewhere. What are the consequences of this? I wish you could be clear and stand up because that is what you are doing. In order to defend our square, bureaucratic systems, we are prepared to sacrifice these people. This is what you are doing now. I would certainly appreciate some honesty, even if I understand that these are difficult decisions in many ways.
i-1c5b270610113148-336	Mr President, I would like to If we are to talk about honesty, Johanna Jönsson, we must also say that Sweden alone cannot solve the world's refugee crisis. Sweden can and should be a very important international voice to influence international systems, so that the world can cope with severe refugee crises and so that Europe can be at the forefront in providing people with protection and a good opportunity for a new life. But, of course, Sweden alone cannot accept all people who are on the run. Do not give the picture that it is possible! Sweden has a generous policy. Sweden has given protection to more people than any other country in the EU. I'm proud of it. I think that's good. I do not think we have come up with restrictive measures too late. I am glad that we have pressed ourselves and stretched ourselves as far as possible. But we are reaching a limit where it is no longer possible to maintain what we want. It is about being able to build schools at the pace needed and to build housing at the pace needed. It is about having teachers, social secretaries and working systems so that people also have the opportunity to start their new lives in Sweden. We have a responsibility for the people who come here, and we take that responsibility.
i-1c5b270610113148-339	Mr. Alman! I can see that the S-MP government cares more about pointers and labels than about concrete proposals for men and women to have the same power to shape society and their lives. It's a feminist government that lacks gender equality – it's a bit like swearing in the church. You had eight years in opposition to prepare. You have had a year with an alliance budget that you have managed with, which has created more time for you to prepare well. You are now getting your budget through. You're talking about investments in this area. It's quite remarkable. What is remarkable is that you refer to investigations, proposals prepared in the Government Office and reports that have not yet been put on the table of Parliament. Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by saying that Sweden is a long way ahead in terms of gender equality in the labour market in an international perspective. At the same time, I must admit that there are challenges in this area. There are currently, in 2015, shortcomings in economic equality. It shows that this is an issue on which we must constantly work and that every generation must gain freedom in this matter. In the report we are debating, the majority refers to an index on gender equality developed by the European Institute for Gender Equality. The latest measurement, on 25 June, shows that Sweden has the best performance in the EU. The figure of 100 is maximum – then it is an equal country. Sweden is 74, 2. The EU is at 52, 9. Then you can ask: What are the reforms that the government has put on the table and implemented that are included in this measurement? None. Nada. I would like to say that the Alliance has been in charge for eight years, and it has been the Alliance's budget that has been in force for the last year as well. The S-MP government's reforms to facilitate or improve in this area have been absent since the 2014 elections. I can mention several examples where I think the government is making Sweden go the wrong way. I do so on the basis that I am moderate even on the basis of decisions taken by the House. We Moderates want to strengthen the gender equality bonus. It wants the government to abolish, despite announcements in this House. We Moderates want reduced taxes on lower incomes, the first job deduction. The government proposes increased taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship. We Moderates want to maintain and develop RUT. The government wants to degrade, halve, the RUT deduction. In fact, one could read in Dagens i ndustri this week that the Minister of Finance wants to develop RUT. Then it is even more remarkable that the government halves this deduction. Yes, it can then be said that Sweden has a government that has lost its grip and that we have a finance minister who has lost control of the government process. At the beginning of the year, Minister for Foreign Affairs Margot Wallström stated in the Foreign Declaration that Sweden was developing a feminist foreign policy. Yes, it may not be possible today to analyse everything that has happened in this area since then, but it is clear that ambassadors have left Sweden. And we've had strained international relations. Mr President, I would like to The list that shows that Sweden is heading in the wrong direction can be done long. I shall nevertheless say that I think, Mr President, that Sweden is a great country to live in. However, Sweden is facing several challenges in the future. Let me mention a few! As far as equality is concerned, I can see that there are differences between men and women. It is about the possibility of entering the labour market, entering the labour market and into the business world. It's about career opportunities and pay differentials. There are differences in parental allowance, vab days and ill-health rates. We Moderates invest in women's ill-health. Therefore, we want to give the Swedish Work Environment Authority more resources to further develop the work that has begun. Another challenge that the government is turning a blind eye to concerns RUT companies, in which many women have received management positions and work within. This also applies to the growth of companies in the health and education sectors. Here we see that the government is moving forward with several deteriorations. With that, I would like to say, Mr President, that Sweden is heading in the wrong direction when it comes to female entrepreneurship. It is sad that the government is not catching up on these signals.
i-1c5b270610113148-352	Mr President, I would like to 2013 was a breakthrough year for a new treatment of cancer: immunotherapy. It is a fourth method of treatment that attacks the cancer in a completely new way. What if we found a new treatment of inequality, a breakthrough? But in the government budget there is no new treatment method. There is no such thing as that in the accompanying movements, I will say in all honesty. No, I don't think it's that simple that there's any immunotherapy against inequality. It will continue to be a matter of systematic work which, moreover, requires determination to be carried out. This must be made visible. You have to increase your knowledge. It must be implemented, and finally it must be implemented. Then it starts all over again, not once, but over and over again. We have now moved from the integration part to the equality part. I will, in my few minutes, touch two of the many parts that exist in this area. The first part I want to touch on concerns violence against women, violence in close relationships. It is about people who live under threat every day without Säpo raising the threat. This is about listening to what it sounds like when the door opens when someone comes home. What's up today? This is still an area that is very difficult to talk about. It's still stigmatized. I do not think that makes a great deal of difference between the various political parties in this area. They want to work towards this. It can differ in parts. It can differ in ambition and approach. But it's a goal that I think we all share. The difficulty is to get it implemented out in the operations, at the end of the capillaries. We in the Center Party would like to add some elements that we see as important in systematic work and that need to continue to apply in the future. On the one hand, we would like to see a new action plan that takes up where the old one ends, and on the other hand we want to see a comprehensive work that does not allow pitfalls between different authorities. We want to ensure that there is better knowledge of professions that come into contact with victims of violence. You should not be able to choose in education if you know this type of problem. These are threat and risk assessments when reporting, preventive work, more research and better follow-up and accountability. On the part of the Center Party, we would like to see a zero vision in this area that all the authorities would be responsible for working from outside. The second part I want to raise concerns women's entrepreneurship. Historically, we in Sweden have been very bad in this area. We are always at the bottom of all EU countries in terms of the proportion of women who run businesses. During the year of the alliance government, the number of women who started and ran businesses increased. But let's back up. One can sometimes wonder what such changes will bring about. Are there hookbones in the systems, or are there stretched hands? What happened in the year of the alliance government was the introduction of a number of reforms that would act as extended hands. It was a promotion policy, which is both about LOV, which exposes the public sector to competition, and about RUT, which we introduced as an important part of this. We have worked with strengthening ambassador networks and with different types of initiatives that in many different ways have been an extended hand, a promotion, for more women to start and run businesses. The current government is very hesitant about LOV. An investigation is being set up and questions large sectors that are some of the sectors where the number of women actually runs companies. It is difficult for RUT, both to halve the deduction and to use for a long time a language that is gross and sometimes even offensive. Especially when you could read yesterday's statement by the Minister for Finance that it was a very cost-effective deduction, you can think about what signals you have been sending for a long time. If this is an ignorance, you can think about it. Is this a blind spot? If you talk about the systematic work to strengthen gender equality development, you have to start by making it visible. Is it because of ignorance that the government is now taking action and measures that make it fewer women who start and run businesses? Or could it be that the feminist government does not think it is appropriate for women to run businesses?
i-1c5b270610113148-364	Mr President, I would like to Now we deliver political decisions in the field of gender equality. Listen carefully, Jenny Petersson! This autumn, we have made important decisions here in the Swedish Parliament that are driving the work on gender equality. This is about the change in parental insurance with an additional month reserved for each parent. The municipal custody allowance, which is a female trap when you are away from working life, is removed. These are two important policy decisions that affect the labour market for women and increase the opportunities for men to share more equally and take greater responsibility both for their young children and for their home. Some who listen may think that this is not in the field of expenditure 13. That's it. However, in order to achieve equality between women and men, all policy proposals need to be analysed on the basis of their impact on women and men, whether they are jobs, schools, taxes or finances. Our feminist government is doing that job. They analyse before the decisions are made so that the gender perspective is taken into account in decisions, and we in the Committee on Employment have responsibility for gender equality policy here in Parliament. Mr President, I would like to The Government delivers more for gender equality, including investments in women's health and maternity care. We invest in the Swedish Work Environment Authority, which can continue the preventive work on women's work environment and more. We have an investment in increased staffing in elderly care that came this spring. These are important signals, but they are also important initiatives both for the quality of care for the elderly and for the working environment for all those working in care for the elderly. There will be more work colleagues and more for those in need of care for the elderly. We know that around 150 000 women go down on time or leave work to care for children or adult relatives because they do not trust the quality of their welfare. In addition, we know that young women account for the increase in sick leave due to work-related ill health. All the efforts we make in the welfare sector benefit women more than men, and that is why the efforts we have made are extremely important. We continue to work against men's violence against women. It has to stop. It is also a high priority to combat violence and to focus on prevention so that violence does not happen. We also invest funds in women's and girls' shelters, which do a very important job and take a great responsibility. Women and men with the lowest pensions receive lower taxes. The housing allowance and maintenance allowance will be increased, and there will be an increased basic allowance in parental insurance, which benefits women more than men. The government also plans to review the entire insurance system so that it fits a modern family life and working life. Mr President, I would like to The previous government set up a variety of investigations that sprung in different directions. Several of these investigations have now been submitted to our gender equality minister Åsa Regné r, and these are good investigations. That is a lot of facts and, as I said, we know a great deal even before what should be done. But the difference is that it is now a matter of taking a concerted approach to what has been said and written and making proposals and making decisions after the rounds of consultation that are going on. Although Fredrik Malm is not here in the Chamber, I would nevertheless like to welcome his changed views on salary surveys every year. In all these investigations it becomes very clear that women do not receive the full salary and are not valued on the basis of their skills. Despite long training courses with good grades and qualifications and having as long working days and hours as men, women still lose many millions during their working lives. As we know, this affects women's choices throughout their lives. Why is it like this? Well, we know that women still have worse working conditions – everything from pay, when it comes to the right to full-time and even when it comes to the right to work clothes and many other things. But above all, it is a question of women being expected to take the greatest responsibility for children and the family. It is a clear expression of a lack of equality when women do not receive the full salary. One reason is the gender-disaggregated labour market. Here it is important to work on these issues in both education and employment services to change and enlighten. Arbetsförmedlingen has been tasked with designing its activities so that it promotes gender equality and counteracts gender-disaggregated labour markets. We know that women turn to male-dominated occupations while men remain. Mr President, I would like to Our feminist government goes from words to actions with concrete proposals that promote gender equality. Jenny Petersson! I dare to promise that there will be more proposals to the House. They will also be measurable. I support the proposal in the report and reject the reservation.
i-1c5b270610113148-377	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by reiterating what Simone de Beauvoir has said, namely that the only free women are women who run businesses. I repeat the question in my speech: Is it ignorance of the government, or does the government think that women should not run businesses or that it is not suitable for women to run businesses?
i-1c5b270610113148-379	Mr President, I would like to Our government feels very well that women are suitable for running businesses, but we are well aware that women do not have the same opportunities as men to run them on the basis that they still have the main responsibility for homes and children. We know that when women run businesses, those companies develop more positively than when men run companies. This applies to both large and small companies. We very much welcome the fact that women start, own and run businesses. But then we have to make sure that welfare works. There must be a welfare that allows women to go to work or run businesses. There must be a high-quality preschool and a high-quality care for the elderly, so that it is possible to rely on the services on which women are often more dependent than men so that women can make a career regardless of whether they are employed or self-employed. That is why we believe it is important to invest in preschool and care for the elderly so that there is high quality there and they are available on inconvenient working hours. We make a lot of bets. The Public Employment Service has also been given a mandate to draw the attention of women to the fact that they can switch to other industries. That goes for men, too. We want women to be self-employed.
i-1c5b270610113148-382	Mr President, I would like to It's a little exciting to try to find out where in all of this there are investments in women's entrepreneurship. These are general public spending on welfare, which in no way becomes an outstretched hand for setting up and running a business. What we see from structures in society is that support, efforts and measures often move towards industries where traditionally many men work. The Alliance government targeted a number of such efforts and measures to facilitate sectors where more women work, not because it has to be so, but because that is where we are today. Nevertheless, all these efforts and measures have shown a positive outcome, but there is great uncertainty as to what will happen to this government. Will the opportunities for women's entrepreneurship deteriorate in those sectors where they have been able to start and operate for a number of years? It's about welfare jobs, and it's about RUT companies. It is also about different types of support and incentives to get a different distribution of state venture capital than that 8% goes to women and 92% goes to men. These are basic structures. These issues are not mentioned anywhere in the Government's budget proposal, or in Ann-Christin Ahlberg's speech. Are you blind? Does the government at all see these issues, or does it not care? It is also an answer in that case. Right now, the government is laying hookbones for women who want to start and run businesses. I'd rather see outstretched hands.
i-1c5b270610113148-387	Mr President, I would like to I can promise Annika Qarlsson that we will not put any hooks for women to start or run a business. We will ensure that women have the same opportunities as men have in society. There are some investigations going on that the previous government ordered. The pile is big. I know that Åsa Regnér is doing a huge job of getting the investigations out on consultation rounds so that there are comments. Women's entrepreneurship will certainly also be addressed there. In terms of the distribution of both power and influence in society, whether it is a matter of influencing their ordinary workplace, political governance or running their own business, we are pushing hard for women and men to have the same opportunities. Just as Annika Qarlsson said here, we know that women do not have the same opportunities to start a business today, based on the fact that there are not the same opportunities to borrow money and many other things. We need to look at these issues because women should have the same power and influence to influence their own lives economically. The right to exercise influence over one's own life and to start or own a company is such a power position. I promise you, we won't put any hookbones on female entrepreneurship. We will ensure that more women can do just as men have been able to do and can do in the future.
i-1c5b270610113148-392	Mr President, I would like to I have a short and quick question. Are Sweden's parents competent and adult individuals, and are women and men equally competent to make their own decisions?
i-1c5b270610113148-393	Mr President, I would like to I will reply to Paula Bieler that I am convinced that both women and men are perfectly capable of making their own decisions, even within the framework of their own family. I assume that Paula Bieler refers to the extra month that has been introduced into parental insurance, perhaps also the issue of the custody allowance. All studies indicate that one of the major reasons why women do not have an economic situation that makes it possible to live and decide over their own lives is the unequal take-up of parental insurance. Then we have to do something about it. If Parliament had decided on parental insurance this year, I am absolutely convinced that half had been for the mother and half for the father. However, parental insurance was introduced at a different time, when women were not as active as they are today. We in Parliament can influence women's situation for the better. One of the concrete proposals to promote gender equality is to remove the custody allowance and change parental insurance.
i-1c5b270610113148-397	Mr President, I would like to Not surprisingly, I don't entirely agree. I do not see these proposals as a means of increasing equality. I see those suggestions as a way of telling women and men what to do and what not to do and how adults in our country should live their lives. Parental insurance is individual. You get half the days each. But since we all live differently, because we all have different preferences and conditions, there has been an opportunity to give days to your partner if you think it fits best in that particular family. There are absolutely many different problems in our society, many different consequential effects and factors affecting the withdrawal for reasons other than how you want to live. But for me it is extremely difficult to see how one can believe that ruling politicians know best what is best for every individual in our society and that we are equal only when we make exactly identical choices. What my party and I want to work on is to create better conditions, for example in the industries where women work, and see what opportunities there are to do about parental insurance so that the financial aspects of who stays home with the child do not affect the choice of who stays home. I would very much like to know where to find the arrogance to believe that politicians better know what families themselves want to do.
i-1c5b270610113148-402	Mr President, I would like to The families actually have their own choice. You can split the time just in half so you take half each. You can also choose that a parent is home more. It's a choice you make in your family. On the other hand, parental insurance, which we here in the Swedish Parliament legislate on how it should look, has changed so that it should be directed towards a more equal set-aside. But as it stands today, to just take the figure I have here, women take out just over 13 months during the first two years of the year but only 91⁄2 months on parental allowance. So you take a lot longer leave than you have parental allowance. These are things you have free choice to do. We are well aware that there are different economic situations for different families. But for us it is extremely important, on the one hand, that women and men share more equally the unpaid work with the children but also with the home, and, on the other hand, what we often forget: Children need more than one parent. Children feel very well if they have access to both their mother and their father. Things can happen in life. Then it is good that even the father, who is often the less at home, has knowledge of his child – or his children, for they are often several – so that you can be safe and know that he can do this too. In fact, there are fathers who want to be at home but who may not get because the woman thinks it is her opportunity to be at home. I have met many fathers who have taken the opportunity to be at home with their young children. They say it's the biggest...
i-1c5b270610113148-407	Mr President, I would like to I listened carefully to Ann-Christin Ahlberg's speech. I have also read the economic annex on equality between men and women and the budget proposal that we are discussing here today. There is much reference to investigations set up by the Alliance, which are on the table of the government and which are being prepared in the Government Office. Take, for example, the JA delegation that Ann-Ann-Christin Ahlberg himself raised. I'd like to welcome the new target. Health, care and care are one way to continue working on these issues. As I said, there are challenges in this area. One challenge that the government does not want to see is that the number of new entrepreneurs dropped dramatically last year. It is a trend break after several years of increase. Then what is the government doing in this area? It creates even more uncertainty and chaos, for example in the healthcare sector or in the healthcare sector, where many women work and where many of the public sector's freedom of choice reforms facilitate women's entrepreneurship and management. There has been a growth of companies in this area.
i-1c5b270610113148-412	Mr President, I would like to There were many points made by Jenny Petersson. I will begin with the investigations and that we refer to them. It was so that for eight years the previous government was constantly commissioning investigations after investigation. Many of them have now come to our government. We have a feminist government that takes the investigations that have actually been carried out very seriously. But the assignments to them were rather sprawling, so it takes solid work to get this together into something that is really good and that is also measurable when it comes to what we spend money and resources on. That's what Åsa Regnér is working on. The last investigation was submitted in October. So there has not been much time to carry out anything. I promise Jenny Petersson that there will be more than what I have already told you about in order to push forward the work on gender equality. Our feminist government has a prime minister and a minister of finance who is a prominent feminist and who, in the face of every decision, looks at how it beats women and men. That is how we have to do it if we want to push forward gender equality efforts and actually get the same opportunities for both women and men. That is why I do not think it is fair, what Jenny Petersson says about investigations. In fact, it was the previous government that laid everyone down, but we have received a lot of them. We are working on them, and there will be a lot of concrete proposals on that basis.
i-1c5b270610113148-419	Mr President, I would like to Investigations were made that were completed and worked on even during the time of the Alliance. Now there are investigations to review and perhaps investigate further. Now Ann-Christin-Christin Ahlberg stands here as a member of a government party and promises that things will happen. That's exactly what Ann-Ann-Christin Ahlberg did in opposition – she promised that as soon as the Social Democrats got the power, things would happen. However, I note that there has been some progress in concrete reforms to increase women's entrepreneurship. I mentioned, for example, that there has been growth in education and health care. Another arena for women's entrepreneurship is the service sector that expanded significantly during the time of the Alliance. Take, for example, the RUT deduction, which my colleague Annika Qarlsson spoke about. The RUT deduction has done black jobs to white people. New jobs have grown. The services sector is a sector of the future, where the jobs of the future will be created. Many foreign born get their first job in this industry. When we talk about integration, the RUT deduction will be included in the debate. When the Alliance came to power in 2006, it could be seen that women's entrepreneurship increased significantly – a trend that now the S-MP government breaks with signals of reform. They seem to turn a blind eye to this and do nothing about it. I find that remarkable. Again, what concrete reforms are being put forward to boost women's entrepreneurship? I did not get an answer in the first line; therefore I ask the question again.
i-1c5b270610113148-425	Mr President, I would like to Jenny Petersson began by saying that we have set up investigations. Then I wonder what investigation. I know that Jenny Petersson cannot answer that, but it is the case that we have not put in place an investigation in the field of gender equality. It is the investigations that we have received that are referred to us. We await how people who work with these questions will receive them. We have set up other investigations in other areas. A few of the companies operating in the health sector, the large listed companies, are not a single woman. It is often foreign companies that are active here in Sweden and that are led by men that we may not even know who they are. I can agree that many women have started companies in the RUT area, and we have not said they are going away. Nor have we said that everything should be removed in healthcare. But we think there should be order there, because it is big tax money that goes to waste to profit-making companies. The RUT deduction will remain. Women have been exploited here before and thought that women should not have a decent income. Often there have been high - paying people who have used women to clean their homes. Only when they received tax deductions could they start paying contractual wages.
i-1c5b270610113148-430	Mr President, I would like to The overall objective of gender equality policy, which has broad support in the Swedish parliament, is that women and men should have the same power to shape society and their own lives. Sweden may be one of the world's most equal countries, but we have a long way to go before we can say with our hands on our hearts that we have achieved our goal. Today, the structural wage differential between men and women is SEK 65 billion. In one life, women lose compared to men 3,6 million dollars. Women have 87% of men's wages, and when women reach retirement age, the differences become even greater. Among the poor pensioners, the majority are women. Parental leave is divided unequally. A 75 per cent parental allowance is paid by women. In terms of actual leave, the difference is even greater by 13 months on average for women and 31⁄2 for men. Women are also in the majority when it comes to child care. Some 150 000 women have lost working hours or stopped working to care for the relatives whom welfare does not take care of in the way we expect. Also in the case of ill-health rates, women are higher, 35.1 sick days on average for women compared to 23.6 for men. Mr President, I would like to Sweden has the world's first feminist government. It does not just mean that we have a goal and that we see that the goal is far from being achieved. This also means that we have a government that is prepared to act in all areas of society in order to increase equality. The strongest tool for achieving this is gender mainstreaming and gender budgeting. These are areas of work which, in Category 13, are strengthened by more efforts being made to evaluate and develop these tools. It is also about initiatives in many other areas because gender equality is about society as a whole. It's about strengthening well-being. It's about investing in women's health. It's about how we tax men and women. The government now prioritises breaking the trend of eight years with bourgeois government. We are reducing taxes on pensioners with low pensions, especially women, while those who earn the most pay more to the common. In this way, we are breaking the trend towards increasing income inequality between men and women. The government is also making continued efforts to combat men's violence against women. They allocate SEK 100 million to women's and girls' shelters. It also invests in support for LGBTQ people who are victims of violence in close relationships. These efforts are important for the women affected. Some 17,000 women report being abused in a close relationship every year. It is not enough for us to support those who are vulnerable. We also need to look more closely at those who expose them. We must break the destructive masculinity standards that lead to violence. I am therefore pleased that the Government has commissioned the Swedish Agency for Youth and Civil Society to promote the use of effective violence prevention programmes to combat men's violence against women. I am also pleased with the collaboration with the Swedish Municipalities and County Council, which the government has initiated. I hear laughter from the bourgeois bench, but this is very serious. Worst case scenario, it's life and death. The report on the governance of gender equality policy also identifies masculinity standards as one of the important areas where work needs to be changed. Another area that is pointed out is the intersectional perspective. It's about seeing how different power regimes interact. People are not only men and women, but we are also affected by other forms of discrimination in society. That is why it is important that the whole policy is linked. Let me say a few words about the policy of discrimination, which has been given a little space in today's debate. The government increases funding for the Equality Ombudsman, anti-discrimination agencies, the LGBTQ movement, the disability movement and for the work against racism. It is important for us to have a society where all people can achieve their full potential and be the ones they are full.
i-1c5b270610113148-445	Mr President, I would like to Let me start with a reflection. If you have a feminist policy, you do not have to stand in the speaker's seat and tell them that you are a feminist government. There's a little tip on the way, Annika Hirvonen Falk. The question I'm going to ask Annika Hirvonen Falk is a little different from the one I put to the Social Democrats, because the Environmental Party had a slightly different entry into the election movement just over a year and a half ago. RUT entrepreneurship and the possibility of expanding RUT was an important issue for the Green Party. I had many discussions and debates about it and asked how you would stand if you were in a government with a party that wants to change, reduce and remove. You replied that you would certainly stand up for the important RUT deduction and that you had the ambition to expand it. There's one thing that's interesting for the whole industry right now. After all, the government slows down quite a bit in its budget after talking down this sector for many years. But the migration agreement, which includes both our parties, has decided to gas, but in another part. It is not in that part that is already expanded and that could have grown and changed up significantly more. How is it that the Green Party has supported the change and deterioration in RUT entrepreneurship?
i-1c5b270610113148-450	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by expressing my great pride in the fact that we have a feminist government. It is clear that we are going to talk about it, and we are going to do it in all contexts where we meet other governments. The bourgeois parties had the chance to form Sweden's first feminist government. But I understand that it was not possible to call itself that, given that the policy pursued was counterproductive from the perspective of gender equality. The fact that we now have the world's first feminist government inspires other countries around the world. The Center Party wonders about RUT and how it works when negotiating in a government. Well, you make compromises where you get to give and take. Some of them I can feel satisfied with, for example, that we no longer subsidise pool cleaning, private DJs at parties, the Kockland team etc. Maybe other parts didn't go as far as we did. At the same time, as Annika Qarlsson points out, we have decided to expand the RUT sector in agreement with the Center Party, among others. But let us not pretend that RUT is a response to the structural inequality of society—it is hardly. There we need to look much wider. I wonder why the Center Party, in the situation we are in, where we are far from achieving gender equality, is cutting funding for gender equality measures. That's the question I've been thinking about. No one has lifted it up yet in today's debate.
i-1c5b270610113148-456	Mr President, I would like to It is interesting that we learn from the newest government party a little about how negotiations work. Annika Hirvonen Falk did not in any way describe what things the Green Party has fought for but hid behind bargaining techniques. She chose an interesting way not to answer a question. If we look at women's entrepreneurship in a broader perspective, we see that RUT has been a part of it. But if we look at the law of freedom of choice, which has enabled many more women to start and run businesses, we see that government policy has created a great deal of uncertainty. This means that many hesitate, many choose not to start and many back home and feel uncertainty about what is going on in the future. The government claims to be feminist and obviously needs to express that it is. Then it is interesting to note that what is happening right now is that women's entrepreneurship is decreasing far too fast for me to feel safe and comfortable with it. Different ways of thinking about women's entrepreneurship can be considered. Either you can be there and give a hjämpande hand to start, and you can open up in sectors where you can see that there have traditionally worked many women and there is a great possibility that it is women who will start and run businesses. Or you can choose to lay the hookbones. It can be noted from both rhetoric and politics so far that the government is not particularly feminist on the entrepreneurial side. Instead, it lays hookbones and makes sure that there are as few companies as possible. I just wonder: was this what was the ambition when the feminist government was formed?
i-1c5b270610113148-461	Mr President, I would like to I did not understand the answer to why the Center Party wants to reduce funding for gender equality measures. Maybe we won't hear about it today. But I can tell you what the Green Party has fought for. We have fought for climate action, we have fought for the school, we have fought for investments that lead to jobs and to building housing and we have fought for equality and all other issues in our election manifesto that we primarily went to elections on. In addition, of course, we struggle every day to get as much green policy as possible through. I will also answer the questions about women's entrepreneurship. This is, of course, a matter that the government considers important. It is not a success that fewer women run businesses, but what is the solution? From the Center Party we hear it's about RUT, RUT and RUT.
i-1c5b270610113148-464	However, we need to take a broader perspective. One measure taken by the government is to review the design and functioning of parental insurance for entrepreneurs. There's a key question. As my colleague explained earlier, it is about how well-being can meet entrepreneurs. But it is also about work to change standards. What is it that says that women should work in sectors that they have always worked in? What keeps us alive in that show? What is it that makes women still have the main responsibility for unpaid home and care work, which might get in the way of entrepreneurship? We need to take a broader approach, and I welcome more good ideas that are not just about RUT.
i-1c5b270610113148-467	Mr President, I would like to Yes, Sweden has a feminist government that conducts a feminist policy. We're proud of that. I understand that Annika Qarlsson is a little frustrated, because she belongs to a former government party that did not pursue a feminist policy. I thought I'd talk about both gender equality and integration. A lot of the proposals in the report are about gender equality policy, which must have both gender mainstreaming and a gender equality budget. We must have this in several areas, not just in this area of expenditure. Otherwise, there will be no gender equality in Sweden. The government is on its way when it comes to salary mapping, the Swedish Work Environment Authority – how to ensure that research is directed to see what women's work environment looks like – and how to reduce sick leave, since many women are ill. It is about gender mainstreaming, as I said, about removing the custody allowance and about making parental insurance more equal. There we have got a right-hand cage with KD, the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats, who defend the custody allowance despite the fact that it counteracts gender equality. In the area of integration, we see that the Swedish Democrats have 10.4 billion less than the government. This means that there will be less money for integration. I have not quite understood the argument for not wanting integration into society. When it comes to housing construction, both the bourgeois parties and the Swedish Democrats have 6 billion less than the government. Housing construction is also an important contribution to integration and to people being able to fit in our society. The bourgeois parties have cut back on pre-school and education efforts. This makes it more difficult for women to enter the labour market, as they receive less education. For the first time, we now have a budget that benefits a single mother, but that disadvantages a rich man. I think this is good – it increases equality in our society. The fiasco with job coaches and establishment slots are on their way away – that's very good. In terms of integration, there is a special effort in the additional budget submitted by the government. That's 10 billion. As the Swedish Democrats point out in the report, they are highly critical of this. I would therefore like to explain some of the consequences for Sweden's municipalities if the Swedish Democrats had ruled:
i-1c5b270610113148-477	So we are talking about how it can contribute to better childcare and schooling. Then I have not listed the money that comes to the region that benefits from care. I will continue the list: Borås– 80 million, Gothenburg −369 million, Vänersborg −73 million, Hällefors −26 million, Karlskoga −43, 5 million, Lindesberg −76, 5 million, Ljusnarsberg −35, 9 million, Örebro −59, 4 million, Finspång −42 million, Norrköping −109 million, Valdemarsvik −24 million. It is only some of the municipalities that would get so much less money if the Swedish Democrats had to decide in Sweden. Then I've only looked at the extra budget. But what the Swedish Democrats have not told us is that their budget does not apply. Last week, when we voted on the framework, the Swedish Democrats voted for the Moderates' budget. Their expenditure area, which they are calling for here, does not exist! It has already fallen, so they cannot even reserve for one budget, because they have already reserved for another budget. What the Swedish Democrats have to relate to are moderate spending frameworks. Then they must look at what the Moderates wrote. The Moderates said that the policy of the Swedish Democrats was bad. So did we. This is expressed in the reservation supported by the Swedish Democrats. They have reduced the ceiling on expenditure on integration by 1 billion, not 10 billion, so they have a slightly better budget to deal with. But it's awful, too.
i-1c5b270610113148-481	Mr President, I would like to I don't really know where to start. I understand that Eva-Lena Jansson does not understand our integration policy, because she obviously prefers to get involved in numbers instead of reading our argumentation. I can start at the end with minus entries. Then perhaps you should also look at negative items in terms of expenditure. As I have said in previous speeches, we are doing a large part of our cuts in integration costs because we are reducing the need for integration costs, even if only those investments that are actually sensible, such as sfi or social orientation, are taken into account. Then we have also been very clear that there are many bets that are completely up the walls. Perhaps you should also turn to future generations. Minus billions in increased public debt, minus segregation, minus a fragmented society – there are a lot more factors to look at than reducing contributions to something that neither works nor is particularly good for Sweden or our municipalities. The fundamental thing when you talk about integration, building society or whatever you want to call it is what I advocate – must somewhere be that you build a common society, that all people living in our country are treated in the same way, get the same opportunities and be seen as part of our country and have the opportunity to grow into our society. I would very much like to have an answer to the question: how do you think you will be able to achieve it by giving special treatment, by providing subsidies and saying that those who have recently arrived here will be given priority to various housing queues and to jobs, while Swedish young people, who have not been given this opportunity, feel forgotten.
i-1c5b270610113148-486	Mr President, I would like to I don't think Swedes need SFI education. I am quite sure that those who were born in Sweden and grew up with Swedish parents do not need the SFI education. It is very clear that they do not need it. For example, wage subsidies are mainly aimed at people with disabilities. I think it is important that we have that effort. If Paula Bieler and the Swedish Democrats are against it, you should account for it. What you should remember is that last year 80 000 people came to Sweden. This year there have been 140 000. They're already here, Paula Bieler. If you haven't seen it, you can go outside this house, and you'll see they're here. They are located in my county's municipalities and throughout Sweden. There we have municipalities that now run preschool, childcare and school. The people who have been granted a residence permit must of course have SFI. They should attend an education, because we think it is important that people are involved in this society, that they enter the labour market, that their children have a good school. If you don't have that money in your budget, that means you don't have a school for these children, you don't have a housing building, you don't have integration the way we talk. Then the question is: what does Paula Bieler intend to do with the 80 000 who came last year, the 50 000 who came the year before and the 140 000 who come this year? Paula Bieler's gonna throw them out? She'll have to answer that. The policy that you have pursued since you started has been about putting a stop to Sweden's borders. You don't want people from other countries here. It has been a very clear policy. The Swedish Democrats are a racist party that does not stand up for democratic values. You have to be clear about that. Then account for it! You have a budget here, but the budget you have adopted is a moderate budget. That is not the budget that you have put forward in motion.
i-1c5b270610113148-492	Mr President, I would like to Whether we vote for our budget or for the Moderates' budget, I did not even mention it, because it is clear to anyone, after countless debates last year, that we support our budget in the first place but is pragmatic enough that when we have seen our budget fall and have to choose between two different options, then we choose what is least bad for Sweden. At this point, the Moderates' budget was in front of the government's proposals. I didn't even mention wage subsidies. We support this, and we have even talked about how to reform so that it can be linked to a person rather than to having to get a job first and then apply afterwards. I mentioned Sfi as something positive, something that we want to keep investments on. It is extremely interesting how difficult it seems to be for an incredible number of people to take in the fact that there are bets that we want to delete completely because they are counterproductive, have no effect, put group against group. We in Sweden have been the world's best at coming up with various integration projects, spending money on one project after another, having special subsidies that create marginal effects when you are no longer new arrivals and can no longer have your salary subsidised. It is also about the fact that we actually intend to – yes! – to reduce immigration to Sweden. And yes, we intend to prevent the people who come here from other safe countries from seeking asylum in Sweden. We cannot do that, it is not humane, it only benefits those who take on themselves that they have the right to decide which country to live in, rather than that refugees in acute need, in urgent need of assistance, get these relief efforts where they actually exist, which is in the immediate vicinity of the crises. Now we are not here to discuss refugee policy. But I stand 100% by the fact that we are the only party to have a humane refugee policy.
i-1c5b270610113148-497	Mr President, I would like to Paula Bieler did not answer the question of what to do with the people who are already here, who have been granted a residence permit. If you have been granted a residence permit in Sweden, we think it is reasonable that if you are a family with children you should not live on the street, you should not live under a tree, but it is reasonable that you get a dwelling to live in. Then it is also important that we have housing that makes it possible not to pit people against each other. It is important that we have integration efforts that make these people come out to work and can help build Sweden strong. If you take that money away – as you do in your budget – then those efforts do not remain. Then you pretend that it is kind of empty in Sweden, that there are no people here who need to have those efforts. But it's dishonest politics. Your budget is a find-out budget, and then I understand that you choose to vote for the Moderates, because at least they have kept to what Sweden and reality look like. For you as a parliamentary party in your second term of office, it should be reasonable to take responsibility for the people who are here. But you don't want to, because you don't want them to be here. It is very clear with your policy.
i-1c5b270610113148-500	Mr President, I would like to On 25 November 2015, the Parliament decided on a framework for the budget. In Moderate motion Sweden can more – Politics that breaks the new exclusion we presented our draft budget. Unfortunately, Parliament did not agree with this proposal, and in accordance with the Parliament's framework decision process, we will not be taking part in the decision on Category 15. Instead, we will express our views and proposals in a separate opinion. I thought I'd explain that a little bit now. There are many things that are changing in the world and in Sweden right now. There is much to worry about, and there is much that we need to try to counteract. In fact, however, there is also quite a lot that we need to adapt to, which we cannot resist, to which we cannot turn a blind eye and to which we cannot turn our backs. Our changes in the labour market and in the labour force are such. We who play in the labour market are changing. We young people today are not the same people as those who were young yesterday. Jobs also change. It is a great challenge, but it is also a great opportunity for Sweden. We can't and don't want to work with the same things in the same workplace all our lives. Today, however, our education system is not adapted to these changes. It is difficult to change today and to further educate yourself later in life when you get a little older and when you may have more than yourself to think about. The opportunities to do so are not very great. When the development and development of our jobs goes one way – forward – we cannot stand still in politics and yearn for something else that is no longer there. We must follow and adapt our policies and make things easier for people in the new everyday life that now exists. If we do that, the future will be an opportunity for Sweden and an opportunity for all of us who live here. If we just build out existing systems, existing benefit systems and existing education systems, and manage them – as the government does – then we will not change but dream back. Here we have a big difference in Swedish politics. It is important, as I said, that there are great and good opportunities to change careers. That is why we in the Moderates are now putting forward proposals to make it easier for adults to study. A person who needs to build on his studies to be able to either take greater responsibility, for example if you are a nurse and after a number of years want to continue training as a nurse, or to be able to change the course completely after a few years. We in the Moderates are therefore investing SEK 159 million from 2016 on a conversion package to change, improve and simplify for people to change their lives and follow into the future. This conversion package contains four major changes. Firstly, we want to increase people's ability to combine work with studies. We want the release to be increased to 200 000 SEK per year, so that those who study full time can work at the same time and above all work during the summer and when you do not study, without having to reduce their student funds. Secondly, we also want to enable older people to study more by increasing the number of study weeks with study funds for those who have turned 40 years of age from today's 40 weeks to 60 weeks a year. Thirdly, we want to raise the upper age limit for when you are entitled to study funding from today's 56 years to 60 years, so that you can study even if you are older. The labour market requires us to work longer, and many people also want to work longer and need to be able to continue training even when they are older. Fourthly, we want to increase the additional loans for those students who are over 25 and who may have more than themselves to think about. They can receive an additional loan of SEK 5,000 per month instead of today's SEK 3,800. These things change, and they face the future. They increase opportunities for parents and older people to study. They increase people's ability to change their profession and extend their professional life. If more people are to feel secure in society and feel secure with the major changes taking place in the labour market and in our environment right now, we need to make these changes. Then it needs to be possible to change jobs and perhaps even industry when you are a little older.
i-1c5b270610113148-513	Mr President, I would like to Ida Drougge speaks of the need to adapt to a changing society. But the Moderates don't want to invest in education. It's quite clear. You say no to a whole series of educational initiatives proposed by the Social Democrats and the Green Party. You are reducing student aid by 1.25 billion, and there are many training places. Among other things, you say no to universities of applied sciences, to adult education and to adult education. What, then, is the 159 million in your conversion package in relation to this? Why do the Moderates not want to invest in education when there is such a big matching problem and when employers do not find trained and competent staff?
i-1c5b270610113148-516	Mr President, I would like to We have had this debate quite a few times before, including when we were discussing adult education and the SFI on the occasion of the new bill. I will now say something like what I said then, namely that it is not just about the number of seats. When will the Social Democrats stop talking only about the number of seats? Our responsibility here in Parliament is to set frameworks and goals so that we get a good content, so that the education coordinators work towards these goals, so that we get knowledge results and so that those who go to Komvux or who go to vocational training receive the education they need to meet the labour market. You choose not to focus on it but just to expand with more places. That is not really our ultimate responsibility. It is the responsibility of the municipalities. But it is true that you spend more money on study funding because you are expanding the university more than we do. It's true. But what are your policies for a change? What policy do you have for the elderly who want and need to study and who are qualified and who come into education today? It does not help them so much that there are three extra empty chairs in terms of education for people to apply for.
i-1c5b270610113148-520	Mr President, I would like to Here goes the great dividing line between social democratic education policy and moderate education policy, Ida Drougge. We enable many more students to train for the jobs that actually exist, because there are so many employers who have heard from them and told them that they cannot find competent employees because the applicants do not have the right education or the right skills. In addition, unemployment is high, especially among young people. Why do the Moderates not want to give them meaningful employment? There are many who both want to and need to study.
i-1c5b270610113148-522	Mr President, I would like to I shall take note of a very good thing which I heard here described in words but which unfortunately cannot be seen in action in the government budget. It is important that companies contact us daily and tell us that the right skills do not exist. So we need to change our education and not expand it. We have a major matching problem in higher education. It is a question of many training themselves in areas where they can then not get a job. Then we need to change the content of the education and not expand the number of places, so that more people do not get jobs. Higher education is for me and the Moderates not Am measures, but it is the opportunity to develop and get a real job. That is why we need to continue to safeguard the quality of education.
i-1c5b270610113148-525	Mr President, I would like to I agree with the special opinion of the Swedish Democrats, but I am not calling for anything at the moment. It has been interesting to hear the debate so far. In fact, it sounds like we and the Moderates have the same policy on several points and think the same. Right now, we live in a very troubled world, but we need to raise our eyes. Not for our own sakes, that is, those of us who sit in here, but for the life that is outside and actually is functional life. If we constantly focus here and now the future results will only get worse, and that's what we've done. I agree with Member of Parliament Ida Drougge that we must invest in content. What are we training people for? The problem is that we should have done it a long time ago, because the problem that businesses have today – here and now – is not about those we trained last year. It's about the investments we've had in the past. Companies need a long-term perspective in what we plan in here. It must not be thrown back and forth by various political decisions as soon as there is a change in who is in the majority here. Indeed, as politicians, we should be able to sit down and discuss long-term decisions that apply over time, in order to provide security for companies. Companies only stay in Sweden if we offer them the things they want, and they want long-term sustainability, good energy supply and skills supply. That is what they are seeking, and that is what they are trying to tell us politicians. I'm listening, and I hope the rest of you listen, too. The mismatch has been mentioned here before, and I agree that it is a major problem we have. We let people choose exactly what they want, and I think we should do that. But we have the opportunity to direct people from the Riksdag to choose other things. It's called, very popular, having a signal policy when we run. The state can actually go in and control the means. The Swedish Democrats are investing SEK 400 million more in the field of study aid in this particular area, and I intend to return to that. The fast paths we must be able to choose, whether it is into the system or between systems, is also something incredibly important. I'm a father of three, and I started as a builder. After that, I went on to be a security guard, then I got to choose the teaching profession and now I'm a politician. All these changes have worked for me, but it was only because I had the financial opportunity to make those changes. Sometimes it was very difficult and tricky, but we made it. However, not everyone has that possibility. We have competent people out in Sweden who would certainly like to change. They would like to change their profession, but we do not give them the financial opportunity to do so. The Swedish Democrats have concrete proposals on how to do this, and I hope that you other politicians will listen to them. Where we feel the same way, we can make sure that we work together to ensure a long-term perspective. By increasing student aid, i.e. the grant component, and perhaps even by paying for the study piece, we believe that we could motivate people who are parents of young children – who have to pay the rent and make the economy go together – to change their profession without losing so much money. If we can get people high up in the system to change their profession, it also creates room for those who are entering the system. As Ida Drougge mentioned, the young unemployed have much easier access if we lower the threshold for them. Proposals that the Swedish Democrats have are to ensure that they invest in educations that lead to work. In this way, we can ensure that Sweden actually retains its place as one of the leading technology countries. That is precisely what the Swedish Democrats are investing in; we are investing in technology education. We know that it is certainly very nice to attend journalism education and that it is a fantastic education, but that is not what we need right now. There's 40% unemployment out there among the journalists. What we need are high school engineers and technicians who can quickly enter the industrial floor and make sure to take back the shares we have lost to other countries. We want to control resources through increased student support, and we want to motivate people to choose the technology professions. There we raise them; that's where we put our extra strengths and put in our extra money. We have looked at good examples that are around the country, such as Teknikcollege and the Volvo principle with the Volvo step and everything. Care is taken to ensure that people actually get into work directly after their training. We have looked at apprenticeships where you get a probationary period within 12 months, avoid the employer's contribution for the first year and can enter the first job at 75 per cent of the starting salary. We have also looked at a technology bridge and a second chance. There are certainly those who chose a line, attended the training and thought it was very interesting but then discover that there are no jobs or simply feel that they chose wrong and want to change. There must be a technology bridge so that, when you have a competence, you can easily skip to another training. We know that in 2035 there will be a shortage of 100 000 people in industry. We can get out of here, now, do a good job long-term. We also want to ensure that we continue to train rather than dismiss staff when we have economic downturns. Keep the skills! Lost skills are incredibly hard to win back. We also want to invest in training in the mining industry, which we believe is an extremely underdeveloped industry where we have a lot to gain.
i-1c5b270610113148-538	Mr President, I would like to The Center Party's vision is that Sweden will become one of the world's most successful countries economically. All people should have the opportunity to work and develop. The prerequisites for achieving this vision are that we have an industry that is at the forefront of both international competitiveness and innovation, but also that there is a broad base of small and medium-sized enterprises that are allowed to develop and grow throughout the country. The Center Party also wants Sweden to be an example in the environmental field and to demonstrate through concrete instruments that economic growth, innovation and entrepreneurship go hand in hand with reduced emissions and toxins as well as with ecological balance. Through our policy, we want to create well-being and security for everyone throughout the country, including through investments in health care, school and care. This applies both to how we contribute to creating these resources and how we use them better. Under the alliance government, more than 300 000 new jobs were created, and over 200 000 people were able to leave exclusion in different ways. At the same time, the green changeover really took off. However, more is needed, not least at a time of great concern in the world. We need a policy that gives everyone in our country the opportunity to realise their dreams and get a job. It shouldn't depend on how long you've lived here. We believe that the Swedish Government is heading in the wrong direction. There are many examples where policy does not provide opportunities for more jobs but rather creates lock-in effects. It is about tax increases on jobs and regulations by growing companies that are at risk of breaking the recovery we are in so much need of. In its party motion, the Center Party has proposed a different approach to the budget proposal voted on last week. That is why I will not be in favour of anything, but will give a specific opinion. However, I would like to point out that in our budgetary motion we are proposing important structural reforms in the labour market and in the housing market. It is a question of rescheduling taxes on labour and of seeing a better green tax shift. The aim is to free up all the forces around our country, so that new initiatives and ideas are rewarded instead of being punished. But, Mr President, in order to finance our future well-being, more people need to work. Today, of course, we are discussing funding for studies linked to education, and it is clear that this is an extremely important part of promoting development in our country. Like the government, although not to the same extent, the Center Party wants to increase the number of seats for universities of applied sciences and to invest in vocational skills. However, we choose not to increase the number of places in the university. It must be possible to change careers throughout working life. And for more people to be able to work longer, as we will have to do, you have to be able to further educate yourself. Study funds need to be available to people even later in life. In autumn 2013, the Center Party, together with the other alliance parties, made an improvement when we raised the age limit for study funds from 54 to 56 years. However, we in the Center Party, and possibly some other parties, see that there is a need to increase the age limit even further. It is to the benefit of the individual to have increased opportunities to decide and control his or her life, and society can add the skills and the long-awaited hours of work needed. Other issues that are important to discuss in connection with the means of study are the possibility of passing through and lowering the age of graduation of those who go through higher education. The Center Party is proposing a more flexible futures system. This is part of the study aid debate, but it is an important factor in creating a greater throughput. More parties are proposing this. I was in a TV studio in the summer of 2010 and felt relatively lonely and a bit mastered by senior professors when it came to this proposal. But now there are a number of parties in the Swedish parliament that actually highlight the need for a more flexible semester system in higher education. There must also be greater interaction with the labour market in different ways. In the case of CSN, student loans and the so-called free amount, they have been raised a few times during the time of the alliance government. The Center Party sees a need to raise the limit further in order to enable people to finance their studies but also to enable studies during a larger part of the working life. I do not have time to go into the degree premium during my short speaking time. But we have various proposals to promote more teachers in mathematics and the natural sciences. Regardless of the path chosen – we have proposed a different path from that chosen by the government – I really hope it will help. The Center Party also wants to maintain an increased grant level for new arrivals, which is proposed by the government to be removed. I would like to thank you for the time I had for my speech and to conclude it.
i-1c5b270610113148-553	Mr President, I would like to This is an area where I think there is a need for innovation on several levels. I intend to devote my speaking time to pointing out a few areas. Firstly, I think it is high time that we really considered abandoning the overideology that has existed for a few decades that quantity is the most important thing. We have seen for a long time how one has constantly focused on expanding the number of places. It is a local policy which has largely been about bringing down unemployment and which has led to a deterioration in the quality of many training courses. Lena Emilsson was in her previous change of line a clear advocate of the model that it is quantity that applies, regardless of what it means for quality. I think it's a mistake. Teacher training can serve as an example. It is not by having more empty seats in teacher training that the lack of teachers in school is reduced. Rather, it may contribute to the opposite, that it will be even more difficult to recruit people for teacher training as quality decreases and we have more empty places to draw on resources. It is perhaps smarter to try to get competition for teacher training places, that we get more people who have the best opportunities to go to teacher training and that we get competition so that only those who are most suitable actually come in, rather than constantly expanding the number of places. In the long term, this is perhaps what is needed to raise the status of the teaching profession and thus raise the knowledge results in Swedish schools. Moving focus from quantity to quality is not just about teacher training. We also see in other areas how quality has deteriorated. The Liberals propose in their budget a special effort in the field of Humsam, humanities and social science, because we have seen that there is a very great need to improve quality. But there are probably also other areas, because the quantitative expansion of the university has not been followed by efforts to maintain the quality of several of the courses. I think we should abolish this objective and the overideology of constantly increasing the quantity. Now is the time for us to actually invest in high quality education. If Sweden is to compete with knowledge in the outside world, it is not just about having more places, it is about ensuring that they also have good quality. Priority to quality rather than quantity is also important from the point of view of social mobility, because it is by getting a good education, not by getting a place, that one can lift oneself from the circumstances in which one finds oneself. Secondly, we need to think about how we change the driving forces. We have too many educations that do not pay off in the form of good enough living wages. The common thing for them is often that they are women-dominated professions. Few employers compete for them. There is often no possibility of choosing another employer. It is about librarians, it is about teachers, and it is about similar professions that largely have a public sector as an employer. Socionomists are another example. We have squeezed wage structures that don't make it pay to work extra and invest a little extra. We have high marginal taxes. All of this together means that the driving forces for education are too bad. Internationally, we have a relatively good study support system, and we in the Alliance further improved it when we were in power. We increased the student allowance, we increased the child allowance and we increased the allowance. But more may certainly need to be done there too. An example of a strategic effort to increase interest in certain educations is a degree bonus for certain teacher orientations such as special educators, special teachers but also teachers in natural orientation subjects. However, this kind of graduation bonus should be used with some caution. We heard yesterday how the Digitalisation Commission wants to use bonuses to attract more women to a particular profession. But if you are to have a bonus, it must be general and in strategically important professions where we now see that there is a shortage. Not least for Sweden's future competitiveness, it is extremely important that we get more people to apply for courses for math and NO teachers but also for special teachers. Thirdly, there is a need for some innovation in how we make things easier for people who come to Sweden. Some of them come in their teens and have rather poor educational experience. And we must realise that it is quite difficult for those who come in their 13 to 14 years of age to pass Swedish primary school, to pass Swedish secondary school and to get the jobs available today on the Swedish labour market. To meet this, we need to have a double approach, both more simple jobs and the opportunity to attend some form of university of applied sciences. That is why the Liberals have proposed the creation of a new school form at about upper secondary level, the vocational school, which makes it easier for people who come to Sweden to enter the labour market. We imagine that the vocational school is to a large extent similar to the university of applied sciences that we have today and which has good results. 90% get a job after completing a university of applied sciences. Let us use that model also for another group of people, those who do not have upper secondary education but need to have a fast track into the labour market. For this we set aside money in our budget. We also allocate money to skills account and to efforts that make it easier for people to make a social journey during their working life. Mr President, I would like to There is a need to rethink some areas in this area of expenditure. We are trying to do so on the part of the Liberals, and I would have liked the government to have done the same. Unfortunately, our budgetary framework fell. That is why we do not intend to take part in the decision that will then be taken.
i-1c5b270610113148-567	Mr President, I would like to The starting point of Christian Democrats is that man naturally seeks knowledge. Education and training are crucial for a good society and for people's personal development. Education and training must also meet the labour market's needs for a well-trained workforce. In Sweden, everyone should be able to realize their dreams as far as possible. We want everyone to have access to education, and in Sweden we have a unique system because it is free of charge to study. But study time is associated with the cost of living, and Sweden also has a unique system to protect and be proud of. By reducing economic barriers, all citizens should feel that they have access to education, regardless of the family situation they come from. The student support, both the grant and the loan part, are important elements of an effective education policy. All parts of the study grant, i.e. study grants during upper secondary school hours, grants for pupils with disabilities, apprenticeships and student funding with grant and loan part, will help to equalise economic conditions between individuals and between groups in society. Mr President, I would like to To safeguard a generous system, the goal must be for as many people as possible to repay their student loans. Unfortunately, in the spring budget, the government halted the reform of abolishing the cancellation of student loans, which is possible today. We Christian Democrats believe that the basic principle should be that everyone who can repay their loans. It is important for our economy, and it is important for the state to be the norm in this area. Then you can look at the particular reasons for exceptions, but the principle must be that you pay back what you owe. More and more older people are well placed for a longer working life. In order for welfare to be financed in the long term, more people also need to work longer. It is also reasonable, then, that those who start studying in the future will have to pay off their student loans higher than their age. It is also important that those living abroad who have benefited from the Swedish study funding system pay their loans more than they do today. The rate of repayment in this group is lower, and it is welcome that CSN has now been commissioned to develop an action plan to increase the repayment rate in this group. Mr President, I would like to Today, study funding is available for a maximum of six years, 240 weeks. It is possible to obtain additional study funding under certain conditions. We Christian Democrats believe that it is time to examine whether that possibility should be extended. Limiting studies to a period of six years may, in some individual cases, be counterproductive if it results in students having to cancel important advanced education programmes because they cannot finance them. It is high time to examine whether six years is enough or whether it would be useful to work to ensure that more people reached higher levels of education by extending the study-funded time, then, of course, after special examination. Mr President, I would like to I would also like to say a few words about the amount of the allowance, that is to say the amount you can earn at the same time as you get student funding. The amount of the allowance limits students' opportunities to gain the work experience that future employers are looking for, which is very unfortunate. A abolished free amount would also enable students to borrow less and thus get lower debts after graduation. The Alliance government raised the free amount, which was a step in the right direction, but we Christian Democrats think that the free amount must be removed completely. The main problem for many young people entering the labour market today is the lack of work experience. A combination of work and studies strengthens the link with the labour market. Today, the release has become a salary cap, which, together with complicated rules, forces students to count hours to see if it pays to work. Students who combine work and education risk hitting the ceiling. The Alliance's increase in the free amount was welcome, but it is time to replace the obsolete system and abolish the free amount. Mr President, I would like to There have been a lot of improvements in the student social situation. I can mention, for example, the child allowance. But there is more to be done in this area. We Christian Democrats want to enable people to raise their level of knowledge and hopefully find new opportunities in the labour market. This also applies to people with certain ill health. The social insurance inquiry suggests a lot of improvements for students, including that you should be able to study despite part-time sick leave. Improvements in this area are something that we Christian Democrats are very positive about. The Christian Democrats have submitted a specific opinion under Category 15, and of course I support this.
i-1c5b270610113148-579	Mr President, I would like to Sweden has one of the world's most comprehensive student support systems. It is part of the education policy pursued by the Social Democrats. Student support should be recruiting, i.e. everyone should have the opportunity to study regardless of background, economy and position in society. Student aid can be provided in the form of student grants, entry allowances, additional supplements for upper secondary school students, student funds consisting of grants and loans and additional supplements for students with children. Students can also receive grants for studies abroad. This is a very good system. The student support is also intended to smooth out the differences in society between individuals and groups. Student support shall contribute to social justice. Everyone should have the opportunity to study. The mission to broaden recruitment is part of the entire education system. It is about reaching those groups that do not go to higher education to the same extent as other groups. For these groups, student support is extremely important. Without the aid of financing studies, many could not afford to study. It would have been impossible for many students. But we need to work much more on this issue. There are still groups in society that are under-represented in post-secondary studies. There are many talents around our country that do not come to their own because they do not get the encouragement and stimulus they need to dare take the step towards an education after high school. This is a target group we have to make an effort to reach. The Social Democrats see studies as important for the individual to develop and learn throughout life. Going between work and studies throughout your life should be possible. People should be able to replenish with knowledge. It has a good effect not only on the individual but also on the national economy. The Social Democrats invest in knowledge and skills, so that the individual gets more ways into working life. In this way, unemployment can also be reduced. At a time of very high unemployment, especially among young people, it is important to increase the number of training places and student funding. The unemployed need meaningful employment. There are many people who both want to and need to read on at different levels. They are now given the chance. In today's society, knowledge is more in demand than before, and education is therefore becoming increasingly important. Mr President, I would like to Student support reflects the views of the Social Democrats on knowledge, education and education for all. Throughout the ages, peoples' education and knowledge have been a common thread through the education policy of the Social Democrats, because it is so important. So goes the red thread even now. With this budget, we are implementing a large increase in the number of training places in the entire adult education area. More people will have the opportunity to study and finance their studies. Quantity does not mean that it becomes a poor quality. You have to bet on both. And the seats are needed. Employers get in touch because they do not find trained and competent staff to hire. We have heard of a number of people who have not been able to get education in, for example, Komvux, Vux or University of Applied Sciences because of too few places. That's how it's been in college. More young people have wanted to study, but they have not had room. Now many more will have the opportunity. To each place of education it is linked a right to receive student funding. Now many more will have the chance to realize themselves through more education and thus also be able to contribute to society. Mr President, I would like to I therefore call for the proposal of the Committee on Education and Training to be approved in the report.
i-1c5b270610113148-590	Mr President, I would like to Unemployed people need meaningful employment, said Lena Emilsson as an argument for why you should have more places at the universities. More clearly, the placard bearers of local politics cannot express themselves. Lena Emilsson said that quantity does not have to mean lower quality. But can Lena Emilsson say with her hand on her heart that the policy you are now implementing and proposing means that the quality is increasing in Swedish colleges and at Swedish universities? The places are certainly increasing. But the efforts made on quality are well behind this. I would like to ask Lena Emilsson a question. One in six teachers drop out of the first semester. How do more places mean that there will be more students who complete their teacher training? Wouldn't it be smarter to ensure that teacher education has a really high quality and is concentrated in fewer places? This is particularly true of subject teacher training. We must have competition for the places so that the most suitable ones to become teachers also go to teacher training. What is happening now is indeed that the pressure for teacher training increases somewhat since we changed teacher education. But one in six drops out of the first semester. How can more places mean that we get fewer who drop out of the first semester?
i-1c5b270610113148-594	Mr President, I would like to The most important thing for increasing the attractiveness of teacher education is to increase the attractiveness of the profession. This is, for example, about the teacher wage initiative that the Social Democrats and the Green Party are now implementing. That's the most important thing. It is also about making the working environment better for teachers. It affects the applications. We can already see that the number of students applying for teacher training is increasing. Malmö, for example, has had more pressure this year. Of course, all higher education institutions and universities work with their quality. By having the system of funding for basic education and spending on quality-enhancing funds, universities and higher education institutions have a mission to work on quality. Then I think it comes from students dropping out during their first semesters. We don't really know why they're dropping out. This may be because they discover that it is the wrong education they have chosen.
i-1c5b270610113148-598	Mr President, I would like to The reasons why they drop out may be several. It could be that it was the wrong education they got into. Many come into teacher training as a last resort. It could be because they couldn't pass the studies. The search pressure is so low on some courses that those who come in are not in a position to pass the courses. But it may also be because they feel that the education is too bad and that it does not meet the expectations they had in a university or higher education. The latter is something we can actually do something about. By ensuring that there is better quality of teacher training and other education, the pressure and interest in such trainings can increase. It is very important that the teaching profession itself becomes attractive. But teacher training must also be attractive. Otherwise, the students don't want to attend that teacher training. Lena Emilsson said that colleges of course have a mission to strive for quality. But my question was much simpler than that. Does Lena Emilsson think that the budget she now intends to vote through means that the increases in quantity, the number of places now proposed, are matched by a quality ambition that increases the quality of Swedish university and higher education? For a long time, several decades, we have had a policy that has promoted the number of places. We have forgotten that quality must be high. Sweden will compete with knowledge. But this assumes that the knowledge that students get when they go to universities and colleges is of high quality and that the focus is not only on places.
i-1c5b270610113148-602	Mr President, I would like to All education must constantly work to improve its quality. It's not just about teacher training. It is about everything from adult education to research. It is an ongoing work that all training providers have. This budget is a step in the right direction. The government is making a quality effort and also investments that are important for the country as a whole by having more education places at many different levels of society. This helps employers to employ people with the right educational background and skills.
i-1c5b270610113148-604	Mr President, I would like to I would like to take this opportunity to ask Lena Emilsson some further questions related to what is the news in the bill. For that part of the budget, which includes a great deal of money, it says that we should have a clearer gender perspective also with regard to the study funding system. The wording makes it clear that it should be recruiting for both women and men. To achieve this goal, which further parts do the Social Democrats and Lena Emilsson see as important to contribute to increased gender equality? Is an increased number of places important in order to contribute to increased equal recruitment? We already know that much more women are moving on to higher education. But it also looks very different in different educations. Therefore, my first question to Lena Emilsson is: In what way will it have an impact that one should have a clearer gender perspective and work recruiting with the study funding system for both women and men?
i-1c5b270610113148-609	Mr President, I would like to Working for increased equality is one thing. Increasing the number of training places is quite another matter. Increasing the number of training places is about giving more people the opportunity to increase their skills and knowledge so that they can get employment from those employers who currently lack competent staff. Gender equality is something that all education providers should work with. They have the task of reviewing the broader recruitment and gender equality work. In the academic world, for example, one can look at: What about the higher positions and the number of professors? Why is it still mostly men who become professors although there are more women studying at universities? This is an issue that needs to be dealt with on a daily basis.
i-1c5b270610113148-611	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Lena Emilsson! I would like to concentrate on how the study funding system should be recruiting for both women and men. I want to ask you a question. Yesterday, the Digitalisation Commission proposed that women in certain IT courses should be able to have their student funds written off. Is this the type of measures that Lena Emilsson sees that one should be able to work with so that the study funding system would be more equal opportunities recruitment for both women and men? Now it was about an IT training. It is also conceivable that, if the Social Democrats see it as positive, this model could be something to transfer, for example, to pre-school education in order to get more men into pre-school education and so on. I'm curious how Lena Emilsson thinks about this. This is not about how the programmes should work more with their gender equality work, but how one could develop the student funding system itself in order to contribute to a more equal recruitment to the university. I come back to the simple question of how Lena Emilsson views the Digitalisation Commission's proposal to depreciate study funds for women in certain IT courses.
i-1c5b270610113148-616	Mr President, I would like to In general, I do not believe in making special rules for men and women and for different groups in society. We will build a system that already fundamentally promotes equality and equality. For example, parents with children should be able to receive an additional grant, which is also available in the study aid system. It is about enabling single parents in particular, and it has little to do with gender. I do not believe that depreciation and premiums are the right way to go, just as I do not believe in graduation premiums either. It's going to be a strange misallocation.
i-1c5b270610113148-618	Mr President, I would like to One way to increase the level of education and knowledge in a society is to have a well-thought-out and supportive study aid system – a study aid system that facilitates and stimulates further studies, whether at university level or at a lower level. We in the Green Party believe that it is important for higher education to be open and accessible to an increasing number of social groups. The aim of today's study funding system is, among other things, to contribute to the increased recruitment of students to higher education. Another goal is that it will help to give even those with a worse financial background opportunities to study at universities and colleges. Thus: The study tool will help to level out differences and contribute to social justice. These are very important goals that we should be proud of. I am pleased that the government is now extending the objectives by an additional objective, namely that student support should act as a recruitment for both women and men and thus contribute to a high level of participation in education. Mr President, I would like to In order to promote the students' conditions, the government has proposed several reforms. One is that 300 million is invested in stimulating the construction of student housing. Another is that a quarter of a billion people are invested in improving the quality of higher education. A third is that the government has invested in increasing the number of training places at Komvux and Vux, and thus on additional funds for student funding for these students of over 240 million SEK annually in the coming years. A fourth reform is that the government has invested in increasing the number of places of education in folk high schools and thus extra funding of about 50 million annually. A fifth is that the basic level of parental insurance is increased from SEK 225 to SEK 250 per day from 1 January 2016. A sixth is the increase in the grant level of more than SEK 7 000 for those who study at certain courses. An eighth reform took place at New Year's — to increase the study drug by SEK 1,000 and so on. Mr President, I would like to As we increase the allocation by 800 million for next year, it is now a race between the bourgeois parties for who lowers the most and who cuts the most. What I have in hand here is the budget of the report we are discussing today. Here are all the figures for what each party proposes. There we can see that the Liberals want to cut the most. They want to cut down by a total of SEK 2 167 million. Try it! The Christian Democrats do not want to be much worse; they want to cut by SEK 1 868 million. The Moderates, and SD who voted for the Moderates' proposal, want to cut by just 1,250 million. The Center Party wants to cut down by over SEK 1 000 million. It's the Alliance's investment in study funds. In view of this, it is fortunate that they are not in charge. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to refer to Sweden's unified student unions, SFS, who on their website write a review. We all know that this is an independent organisation. Here's how they write: Overall, the budget proposal for 2016 shows many good initiatives for the students. Thank you, SFS! I support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-1c5b270610113148-630	Mr President, I would like to I have a rather simple question for the Green Party. Let us say that the number of places at the university is being increased and that many of the places of study may already be empty. But we can ignore that. They expand the places at the university and say that they want to make it easier for older people to study in the middle of life. But you don't change the study aid system so it's just like that. The increases proposed by the Green Party and the government when it comes to study funding are at the same levels in the same system as we have today. It is linked to more places, just as Jabar here described. Today we know and see that there are many older people who would need and want to study in the middle of life in order to be able to work longer in the labour market and to be able to change jobs, but they cannot afford to make this transition. How does it get better for them? I wonder.
i-1c5b270610113148-633	Mr President, I would like to The Moderates were in government for eight years. Just when they have left the government, they come up with proposals for study funds. It is a proposal that does not hold. What they are doing here is to reduce the grant by SEK 1 250 million. What you say from a moderate point of view is not credible. What we need is exactly what the government does: to invest in giving more opportunities to form, educate, develop, get jobs and contribute to the development of society. That is what pays off, and that is what develops society. We will give more and more individuals the opportunity to study further. These are not empty places, they are places that are sought after. Listen to the university of applied sciences! What are they saying? The last time they were with us, they said they could even increase by 100% if they had the opportunity. They see that the courses that are being read pay off. Those people are evolving. These people get jobs, and those people can contribute to society and their own development. That's what we're launching here. That's what we're saying here. That's why we're spending as much as 800 million extra compared to last year.
i-1c5b270610113148-637	Mr President, I would like to I find it very remarkable that Mr Jabar does not answer my question. Instead, he starts talking about the Moderates being in government for eight years. Yes, we did. That was good, and we made big changes over the eight years. Then Jabar adds that we didn't do anything about the study funds, but then I think he'll have to look back a little and think about the story one more time. We made big changes, for example in the amount of the release, which made a difference for students who work. We also made major changes in the loan part. A lot happened during the time of the alliance government. Many of those things Jabar usually opposes. You make up your mind. Either we did a lot, and you're against it, or we didn't do anything, and then I don't know why you're against it. You are investing in quantity instead of quality. I understand that this is the case. I have also stood here in the speaker's chair and said that I know that you are expanding the university more than we do and that you are therefore expanding the study funds. But what do you do for the elderly who need to study to keep their jobs or change careers and remain in the labour market? What do you do for them so they can afford to do so? You're not doing anything, and that's why I'm not getting an answer.
i-1c5b270610113148-640	Mr President, I would like to Ida Drougge complains that I mention that the Moderates have been in government for eight years and have not done much in this area. Of course, it is relevant to point out that you were in power for eight years and did not do any of what you now claim you want to do. The fact remains. You are lowering the budget by over 1 billion, and it will affect many. Of course, there is no budget where 1 200 million are cut, but it affects students and those who are going to make use of the student funding system. I repeat: it is very important that we give more opportunities to study and further educate themselves and that they can thus contribute to their own development and that of society. Our budget is well thought out. We are investing heavily and developing this, and I am very pleased about that.
i-1c5b270610113148-643	Mr President, I would like to I have two questions about quality for Jabar Amin. One is for college. Does Jabar Amin think that you can increase the number of places in the university as much as you do not increase the resources for education without actually reducing the quality? And does that not also mean that the chances of education becoming good are getting worse? My second question concerns the quality of Jabar Amin's own argument. Is it reasonable to call it a cut when you do not write up an appropriation as much as the government proposes?
i-1c5b270610113148-645	Mr President, I would like to You can't increase training places all the way. We have not claimed that we want to increase the number of training places by a quarter of a million. So the answer to that question is no. We invest in both quality and quantity. Quantity investment allows many times more people to develop and contribute to the development of society. Your second question was whether it can really be called cutbacks if you don't bet money. Of course, it is a cut in relation to the government's budget. What you are doing is a cut compared to last year's budget. We are expanding by 800 million, and now Christer Nylander says that it is our extensions that they do not want to agree to. That's not true. Liberals want to cut by a total of 2 167 million. They want to get back to what it was like years ago. It's a substantial reduction in funding, Christer Nylander. It is not only that you do not want to agree to the increases, but you are also worsening compared to last year and the year before that. This is stated here in the figures in the report.
i-1c5b270610113148-649	Mr President, I would like to Let me remind Mr Amin that he said earlier in the speaker's chair that we are cutting back on the sums he now says we are not increasing. There's a difference between cutting down on things that exist and not expanding things as much as the government wants to expand. As far as the quality of higher education is concerned, it is clear that, as the Social Democrats often put it, it is possible to give people meaningful employment by giving them a place at the university. But employment can mean that you do not get a good education, but rather a poor education that does not meet the demands of the labour market and that does not give Sweden a chance to cope with the tough global competition that our industry faces. Is it fair to just create places because they reduce unemployment? Or should we have a university policy that actually means that the university gives people a chance to pass a good education and contribute to Sweden becoming a country that can compete with knowledge? To just increase the number of places as we have done for several decades in Sweden without a corresponding focus on quality is not only to deceive people who go to college but also to undermine Sweden's long-term ability to maintain prosperity in a tough global competition.
i-1c5b270610113148-652	Mr President, I would like to A politician has to be honest. A politician should not be fooled. Christer Nylander says: What we are doing here is not agreeing to the extensions that the Social Democrats and the Green Party want to do. That's not true. We are increasing by 800 million, but what Christer Nylander and the Liberals want to do is a deterioration even compared to their own budget from last year. In the Alliance's budget, the budget was EUR 20.3 billion. Now the Liberals want to lower even that. It is not just the actual expansion that we want to do at 800 million, but they want to worsen three times over. You have to be honest and admit that's what you want and not just oppose that it's your places of education that we don't want to agree to, because that's not true. I looked at the numbers today in the morning. In the Alliance's budget last year it was 20.3 billion – remember that! What the Liberals are now proposing is even less than what they proposed last year. Therefore, advice to the Liberals' Christer Nylander is: You have to be honest when you oppose here.
i-1c5b270610113148-654	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for reservation 1 on the objective of human rights policy. Around the world there are forces that challenge openness and defy the rules of democracy. The terrorist attack in Paris puts lightning on the fact that in Europe there are people who distance themselves from the values underlying our democratic societies, people who hate freedom, transparency and equality. The resistance to our open societies is so strong that these forces do not hesitate to murder indiscriminately to promote their extremist ideals of violence. Increased radicalisation challenges security, to say the least, and must be tackled with the full force of the law, while the manifestations of violence must be combated with preventive action. Sub-item 6:1 provides funding for several support and assignments to, among other things, national authorities related to the work to protect democracy against violent extremism. In order to develop this important work, we want to contribute SEK 15 million to the grant, which in relation to the Government's proposal means another SEK 5 million. The government proposes that human rights policy should no longer be part of the objective of democracy policy. The proposal reads: a human rights policy should aim to ensure full respect for Sweden's international commitments on human rights. ..................................................... We Moderates believe that the government is doing us a disservice by excluding the Swedish legal dimension of human rights and the tradition that preceded them, such as the provisions on freedom of expression and press in our constitutions. Sweden has a long tradition of safeguarding these fundamental rights. We therefore propose that the goal be: The goal of human rights policy is to ensure full respect for human rights in Sweden. In a civilised rule of law, it is important that citizens, businesses and organisations have equal knowledge of the rights, obligations and responsibilities in the digital environments that they have in real life. Online infringements must be followed up through careful supervision and legal sanctions. The Swedish Data Protection Authority's work on supervision, information dissemination and training to prevent privacy violations, including online hate speech, is a priority. We therefore propose that the agency be added 5 million extra, which means an increased investment of 1 million SEK in relation to the government's funding. Under the Act on National Minorities and Minority Languages, it is possible to extend the administrative areas of Meänkieli, Sami and Finnish by allowing additional municipalities to join upon application to the Government. As more and more municipalities have joined, the rights and conditions of national minorities have been strengthened. Eight municipalities are currently waiting to hear from the government. And, of course, there is great disappointment among the minorities in the municipalities concerned after the government has announced that it is not planning to grant their applications, pending a review of minority legislation. We Moderates believe that an evaluation of the legislation should not be an obstacle to the accession of more municipalities. A law does not expire just because it is evaluated. In order for the applications to be approved, we increase the grant by SEK 1 million. Mr President, I would like to The government's tax increases on jobs and entrepreneurship are at risk of slowing down Sweden's job growth and raising the thresholds to the labour market. Government policy does not create good opportunities for good integration. The moderate reform proposals, on the other hand, focus on jobs, on how to increase jobs, and on how to reduce exclusion. That is why we stand up for reasonable tax levels, stronger investment in education and infrastructure and safeguard the business environment. More people in work mean more tax revenue that gives higher quality in welfare and a stronger Sweden. A stronger Sweden requires wise political decisions. Therefore, it is serious that the government in the budget bill has removed accounts showing the impact of the government's policy on the number, for example in terms of the number of annual workers, employment, unemployment and GDP. Without an explanation of the expected effects of the proposals, the Riksdag's analysis of the Government's policy is of course made more difficult. As long as the government does not meet reasonable demands for transparency, it is important that the parliamentary investigation service receive increased resources, so that the Swedish people's main representative, the Swedish parliament, has more opportunity to evaluate the Government's proposals. We therefore propose that the investigation service be strengthened by increasing the parliamentary administrative appropriations by SEK 5 million next year. The reinforcement is financed by a corresponding reduction in the administrative appropriations of the Government Office.
i-1c5b270610113148-667	Mr President, I would like to I would like to associate myself with the very last thing that Maria Abrahamsson said about the appropriations for the Government Office. This is a reduction which is used only in small part to finance the reinforcement of appropriations in Category 1. It goes to other parts of Moderate policy. Do not the Moderates believe that the party is bound by the agreement reached in 2011? I refer to the fact that the Social Democrats at that time, the first year after the 2010 victory of the Alliance Government as the remaining government, had proposed a reduction of the Government Office's appropriations by SEK 600 million. It aroused opposition. But the Swedish Democrats joined the motion that went through. However, for the next financial year, an agreement was reached between the Social Democrats and the then government. The parties decided to inject the grant again, to restore what the government had proposed. It was financed in terms of budget technology by deducting appropriations. The parties agreed to bring money to the Government Office's funding in order to finance threatened closures of Swedish embassies in other countries and export promotion measures. Do you consider Moderates that this agreement is still valid? We Social Democrats at that time stopped putting forward proposals to reduce the appropriations for the Government Office.
i-1c5b270610113148-671	Mr President, I would like to The question is entirely reasonable at first sight. But when you think about it, you realise that we now have a situation where the government does not report figures that would describe the impact of the proposals that the government is making. Then the Parliament sits a little with the beard in the mailbox, so to speak. How should we interpret the proposals when we cannot see the effects written out in the budget bill, as could be done, for example, in the year of the alliance government? That's what's behind it. Our motive is that we recognise the need for us to investigate this for ourselves. We then have the parliamentary investigation service at our disposal. And then we'll add more resources to it.
i-1c5b270610113148-673	Mr President, I would like to That's not the question I raised. We have considered that what took place in 2011 was an agreement of a principled nature. Sweden had again received a minority government. We understood that we might also form a minority government after the next elections. Is it reasonable that the parliamentary majority, or majorities, should go in and cut the opportunities for the government that Sweden now has to work in a reasonable manner? We have interpreted the agreement that way. It had a principled and long-term character, and it was aimed at contributing to the stability and effectiveness of the government that Parliament is obliged to ensure exists. I can say that we are surprised and disappointed that the Moderates are using this method of financing their policies in general. And my question is: are there any conditions for us to continue to maintain the agreement that we considered to be in principle and in the long term? We hope and appeal to you that you will also look at the same thing in the light of the next budgetary action.
i-1c5b270610113148-678	Mr President, I would like to The problem is that Björn von Sydow refuses to see us discussing two different realities. It was a reality that was at hand when the agreement was concluded, and then the alliance government was careful to present figures in the budget bill that the Riksdag could then evaluate, take a position on and formulate its proposal from the outside. Now we have a situation in which Parliament no longer has the opportunity because we cannot see the figures showing the impact of the Government's proposals. It is clear that, in this situation, a responsible parliament, which is the main representative of the Swedish people, recognises that we need to obtain the basis that we now no longer receive. That's why we want to strengthen Parliament's investigation service. That is the reality we are living in now, and that is my answer to the question.
i-1c5b270610113148-680	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by calling for the approval of reservation 2 from the Swedish Democrats. Last year's budget procedure in Parliament became unique in its kind. The SD then assumed its democratic responsibility and condemned the minority government's budget. A reasonable assumption was that the government would then honour its promise to the electorate and resign as it promised. As you know, this was not the case, and instead of re-election, it came into force for all so familiar the December Agreement. It made it clear that those responsible in the government and the fake opposition felt that it was more important to remain with their generous salaries and salaries instead of managing the democratic mandate given to them by their constituents. The December agreement was held on paper before the inner-bourgeois opposition in the KD voted to abolish it. In its place, the agreement on migration came into force or December the 2.0 agreement, as we might call it. In this situation – with a seemingly unprecedented cost caused by the immigration policy of sick leaves – we find ourselves in the situation that the Alliance and the government are even lending nearly 11 billion to an activity that is now known to be unprofitable. Mr President, I would like to Magdalena Andersson and her friends in the Alliance are more reminiscent of an episode from the Lyxtrap series – as you may have seen on TV – than of the responsible politicians that they should be. This could have been an entertaining political satire if it were not because their SMS lending policy does not affect themselves, as in the TV series, but rather affects Swedish taxpayers. This is about the government base's sense of economy. But there is, of course, an alternative, namely the Sweden-friendly option. We know that you cannot borrow from crises. Our draft budget is therefore adapted to the reality in which we live. At a time when there are running costs for immigration in particular, it is necessary for all those who can participate to take responsibility. If you take responsibility, Mr President, you can also afford funded reforms and increases in areas where they are most useful and remedy where what is most needed. We are therefore cutting back on contributions to political parties and the Government Office's appropriations and halving the pre-financing. Political parties should provide more funding for their own activities. The government and the Government Office, as the government, should set an example and manage with less funds. As far as the halving of pre-financing is concerned, we believe, like the government, that it is clearly in need of reform. On the one hand, the EU's state aid rules will have an impact on the design of aid in the future, and on the other hand, we believe that it is doubtful that the public sector, through its current design, should keep a media sector undergoing transformation alive through artificial breathing. However, we choose to do so in the form of a tax exchange in which, in order to facilitate the reduction, we are making tax concessions, and we are therefore budgeting for the abolition of the tax on advertising for daily press and periodical publications. In combination with measures proposed by the Swedish Democrats in other areas such as the reduction of sickness pay and the reduction of employers' contributions for small businesses, this should primarily facilitate the transition of smaller editorial staff in particular. In addition, small local editorial offices are benefiting from this, which today, under the current rules, do not receive any pre-aid. We also intend to completely scrap the special effort on the national minority Roma, because it is unfortunate that an individual initiative has such a clear ethnic character. Instead, like the government, we intend to strengthen the Sami Parliament because we believe that the Sami have such a clear special position as people that it justifies an increase in funding for the Sami Parliament's work with participation and self-determination. In relation to the government, however, we go further and increase the funding for 2016 by SEK 8 million. Finally, Mr President, we are also strengthening the county administrative boards by SEK 20 million for their work on animal welfare controls.
i-FVgHKzsmej8PKAJ6H5Vi1p	Mr President, I would like to The state budget for 2016, the area that we have prepared in the Constitutional Committee, the Kingdom Board, comprises SEK 12 717,000,000. It is the framework for the Kingdom Board of Directors budget area that was decided last week by the Parliament in the vote. That is 518 million more than the 2015 budget that we decided a year ago. The Center Party believes that the large list proposed by the government for its own office, the Government Office, should be reduced by 175 million. We do not want to increase taxes in the way the government proposes in its budget. Mr President, I would like to An important part of the Constitutional Committee's 2015 budget report was an announcement to the government, from all parties except the Swedish Democrats. The announcement was based partly on a motion that I submitted on the forwarding of changes to the pre-support, and partly on the Alliance parties' budget motion for a merger of, among other things, the Presiding Board and the Swedish Radio and Television Agency. We had agreed in the announcement that parts of the proposal submitted by the Presiding Committee more than a year earlier should be implemented already in 2016 instead of 2017 as proposed by the Presiding Committee. In the government's 2016 draft budget, we see that the government has taken the announcement and the problems of the daily press that it describes seriously. This announcement last year meant something rare in parliamentary exercise treatment, namely that a general exercise was approved already two months after it was submitted. Of course, I was happy about that, but more importantly, of course, the announcement gave hope to many of the country's newspapers that they could survive the crisis that exists in the newspaper business. They will be better able to cope with adjustments to new technologies and lower costs necessary for survival. This is done by allocating development aid within the framework of the 2016 pre-aid grant, which can be applied for by all newspapers. Savings will also be possible when the advertising tax starts to be phased out in 2017 and attempts to co-distribute newspapers and mail start to be implemented, as promised by the government. A small detail of the Constitutional Committee's announcement, based on the pre-aid bill, remains and is mentioned on p. 60 in the Committee's budget report. The 2016 budget does not include any list of pre-financing for one-day newspapers. However, I have received assurances from representatives of the government parties that this part of the announcement will be taken into account when the 2017 budget is presented. Mr President, I would like to I would also like to raise a number of issues relating to the differences between the economic policy of the Centre Party and that of the Government. In the budget motion, the Center Party has proposed an alternative to the government's budget bill. In our motion, we propose important structural reforms for the labour market and the housing market, rescheduling of taxes on labour and business conditions, and a strong green tax shift. We want reduced tax on labour to be financed by the polluter paying for emissions. The Center Party's proposed budget for 2016 is based on our vision that Sweden will be one of the world's most successful countries economically with opportunities for everyone to work and develop. The conditions for this are an industry at the forefront of international competitiveness and innovation, as well as a broad base of small businesses that are allowed to develop and grow throughout the country. I and the Center Party want Sweden to be an example in the environmental field, and we want to show through concrete instruments that economic growth, innovation and entrepreneurship go hand in hand with reduced emissions and toxins as well as ecological balance. Through this policy, the Center Party wants to create jobs, welfare and security. Mr President, I would like to In the first stage of the budget process, Parliament has endorsed the Government's budget proposal and the proposed spending framework and estimates of revenue. Since Parliament has given budgetary policy a different direction from that which I and the Center Party want, I will refrain from taking part in the decision on the distribution of appropriations. In a separate opinion, we in the Center Party express the distribution of appropriations under Category 1 that we advocate.
i-1c5b270610113148-705	Mr President, I would like to I would like to raise the same issue that I raised in a previous speech by the Socialist side. I have told the House the story of the agreement reached in 2011, how it meant that a previous motion which had won the approval of the House during the previous Parliamentary Session was now added to the file, and instead what the government had withdrawn was financed to comply with Parliament's decisions. I would like to ask Per-Ingvar Johnsson how he, as the representative of the Center Party, views this agreement, which we have received with surprise and disappointment, because we believe that, at the moment we are, it is the government, regardless of its parliamentary status, that has a duty to do what the form of government requires, namely to be responsible for the government's having a government. How does the Center Party view the agreement that has been reached? Does the Center Party really think it applies? Does the Center Party think it would be good if it could apply? Does the Center Party perhaps have a different attitude to the next budget debate on this issue than what is being presented today, since the Center Party is the alliance party whose proposal for cuts on the Government Office is the largest?
i-1c5b270610113148-708	Mr President, I would like to It is true that we have proposed a substantial reduction compared to the appropriation proposed by the Government for the Government Office. Overall, however, it is an increase of 518 million in the budget laid down by the government. Of the lists, therefore, there is a considerable amount left, 300 million, if we look at this budget area. I am therefore not so concerned about it.
i-1c5b270610113148-709	Mr President, I would like to We are discussing the question of principle, the question of the validity of the agreement. I am grateful for another comment on that by Per-Per-Ingvar Johnsson. Of course, different circumstances can be taken into account, efficiency requirements and so on. It turns out that the Government Office in the previous year has not increased in terms of personnel, the number of employees. On the contrary, the number remains. Nor have there been any growth in politically motivated employment. It looks quite unchanged. Perhaps it can be said that the Government Office is currently under tremendous pressure, namely through the parallel crises that Sweden and Swedish society are facing. In this situation, as a commentary on Category 1, we are surprised, surprised and disappointed by the fact that the Government Office is being cut back. I hope that Per-Per-Ingvar Johnsson will find it possible today to have a wording to this House which shows that it understands that a minority government needs to be sure that Sweden can be ruled.
i-1c5b270610113148-713	Mr President, I would like to We in the Center Party believe that there is no concern that the country can be ruled. There is a saving of funds in the Government Office, which means that there is quite a lot of money for the government to dispose of in its office. I don't see that concern. In addition, it is a strong total, an increase in the order of 41⁄2 percent of the appropriation for the government of the kingdom. This is much more than in other areas of funding.
i-1c5b270610113148-715	Mr President, I would like to If you compare the budgets in this area of expenditure, you can see that the Liberals' budget is very offensive. We have many investments in several different areas. I was going to go through them. It's no wonder it looks like that. Many of the areas under Category 1 are close to the heart of liberals. One of them is the Parliamentary Ombudsmen or the Parliamentary Ombudsman, the Parliamentary Ombudsman, as the Swedish people know them best. JO is one of Parliament's watchdogs; they guard citizens' interests. There is much evidence that the JO is a popular institution among the Swedish people, for there are many complaints against authorities, courts and so on that they want the JO to examine. This means that the workload at the agency is high. From the Liberals' side, we want to send SEK 5 million to the JO. It is a 6 percent increase and therefore a big bet. Another of these watchdogs is the Swedish Data Protection Authority. They themselves write about their mission that you, the citizen, have the right to a protected zone. They work a lot with personal privacy, ensuring that personal data collected is handled properly. From the Liberals' side, we want to transform the agency into a privacy inspection with an expanded mission, but until this happens, we want to give the Swedish Data Protection Authority more resources to enable them to be more active in their area. We're shooting at $10 million, a good 20 percent count. As far as minorities are concerned, we have administrative areas in Sweden. It can be municipalities and county councils where you have the right to information in your language – meänkieli, Finnish, Sami. They've been very popular. Many municipalities and county councils have joined, and more want to join. In this situation, the government freezes the budget for that area and stops it so that more municipalities will not be able to join. This is done because of some review. There is nothing wrong with a review, but to prevent this, which is popular with the citizens who live in these municipalities and who many municipalities think are good, and freezing the subsidies there is very wrong. Liberals are in fact the only party that adds money to cope with an expansion. It would cost about SEK 5 million to allow the new municipalities to join, and we are the only ones who have that money. We also have another SEK 5 million that can go, among other things, to list the support for those municipalities that are already administrative areas for, among other things, Finnish. Another area where we from the Liberals have worked a lot for a long time, including in the alliance government, where Erik Ullenhag was responsible for this area, is the Roma. The Roma have been around for a very long time in Sweden, for 500 years, and they have been subjected to various forms of oppression and discrimination throughout that time. The situation has, of course, become better than the racial ideology we had at the beginning of the 20th century, but there is still a lot of discrimination against Roma, and freedom is limited in Sweden for those born as Roma. The Alliance government had a very ambitious agenda, and it continued even after the end of the Alliance's term of government, when we jointly voted for an announcement to the government on the basis of a motion by Erik Ullenhag. In this area, the government is reducing the funding for the Roma by 2 million. If we are to maintain a high level of ambition, speed up and improve our work, we cannot, of course, cut back in this area, as the government does. Instead, from the Liberals, we would like to add SEK 5 million, which is a great deal of money in this area. That's a 35 percent count.
i-1c5b270610113148-724	Mr President, I would like to With a somewhat reduced voice, I would like to address Mr Sundin in connection with the question that I have been able to deal with recently with colleagues in the Alliance. We have noted that the Liberals have a significantly lower proposal for savings at the Government Office. In fact, I would like to ask the same question as before, the question of principle: do the Liberals think that the agreement reached in 2011, which meant that the Social Democrats are not, from then on, exercising about cuts in the Government Office when we are in opposition, still applies? At least one can say that it seems to apply very much to the Liberals because the saving proposal is only SEK 26 million. Perhaps I could use another minute to argue, but I will settle for this and put the question to the Liberals.
i-1c5b270610113148-726	Mr President, I would like to I thought Björn von Sydow would ask that question. I will say two things in response to the question itself. After all, the agreement concerned the last parliamentary term. It ran out a little over a year ago. In addition, it concerned ex-post changes to the budget – that one should not go into afterwards and close down an embassy, as suggested by S-håll at that time. That is how we look at that question. I can push the question back. How long does Björn von Sydow think the agreement should last? Is this an eternal agreement in Björn von Sydow's world?
i-1c5b270610113148-729	Mr President, I would like to I regret the position expressed by Mathias Sundin, namely that the agreement has expired with the last parliamentary term. We thought it was tried once by our party during the opposition period. That's not good. I did not consult and negotiate at that time, but I have the impression that it was thought that this was an agreement aimed at ensuring that minority governments would not be subject to more or less vigorous reductions in what involves exercising the leadership of the administration in Sweden, including our foreign service, and which is also needed for the parliamentary work to work. After all, Parliament is heavily dependent on the Government Office as machinery. My position and ours is that the agreement was of a principled nature. It should apply. We want that direction, and it would be very useful if we could follow up on this discussion of the chambers with discussions on this within the framework of our parties' cooperation opportunities.
i-1c5b270610113148-731	Mr President, I would like to We must be able to present different budgets, which is what we have done. We have not tried to break out any part afterwards and change, but we have simply put forward another budget. From our side, we have set different priorities in the budget than you do. For example, we are spending money on expanding the administrative areas, and we are spending money on Roma inclusion, which you are cutting back on. We have different distributions, and that must be the case. You'll get through your efforts on the government, too. We have not prioritised the Government Office as high as, for example, investments in information in Finnish in the administrative areas. We have different priorities, and that is why we have a political debate.
i-1c5b270610113148-734	Mr President, I would like to The government is presenting a coherent draft budget and opposition parties are presenting their alternative draft budgets. This takes place in two stages, on the one hand, on the framework of the budget as a whole – and this decision was taken a few weeks ago – on the other hand in each area of expenditure, and that is what we are debating here on behalf of the KU. What, then, is the Christian Democrats' objective of the budget if one looks at the whole? When we put our budget together with all its elements – the KU area is a smaller part – what did we want then? Well, for increased community and belief in the future, we want a policy that creates the conditions for people to build good relationships and feel secure and that makes it easier for people to move from exclusion to work. We want to create the conditions for good growth and a business environment that stands well in global competition. For us, it is important to strengthen the self-determination of families, and the position of civil society creates a basis for working inter-human relations. Through a well-functioning economic policy, we can also invest resources in welfare, which increases security. With thought-out reforms on the labour market and in fiscal policy, we can improve people's ability to leave unemployment and exclusion. New jobs, we mean, are not created by political top-down solutions. They are created in growing and profitable companies. The Red-Green Government believes that Europe's lowest unemployment can be achieved – that is the objective – and that the integration challenge can be met with massive tax increases on labour and entrepreneurship. The direction of the Christian Democrats is the opposite. We want to lower the thresholds into the labour market and improve the conditions for entrepreneurship. It is essential that economic policy is designed in such a way that resources are used effectively to provide security for those in vulnerable situations. Growth must benefit everyone. Welfare must be developed through continued freedom of choice, clear quality work and efficient use of resources. Now we know that Parliament has supported the Government's proposals for spending frameworks, the calculation of central government revenue and the focus on budgetary policy. And in accordance with the parliamentary framework decision process, the government's draft budget and the various opposition parties' draft budgets are now being set against each other as a whole and decided in two stages. The Christian Democrats' draft budget is a coherent whole. As Parliament has supported in stage one, what is known as the framework decision, the Government's proposal for a financial framework for the state budget and the focus on budgetary policy, I cannot support that proposal for a second time, so to speak. Instead, in accordance with a separate opinion, I make comments on the Government's proposal and report on the distribution of appropriations proposed by the Christian Democrats in motion 2015/ 16:2712, motion 1. What do we want there? Well, first of all – that's what Björn von Sydow has brought up to date – we Christian Democrats want to reduce the grant 4:1, the Government Office, etc., by SEK 109.5 million for 2016, compared to the Government's proposal in the bill. Then one might ask: Is this a violation of the agreement that was made? It was done during the last parliamentary term. We had had a situation in which the Social Democrats, the Green Party, the Left and the Swedish Democrats, who at that time constituted opposition, together broke out 300 million out of that grant. It had far-reaching consequences. That is why an agreement was reached last parliamentary term. The Social Democrats chose not to do this again, and in the next budget the SEK 300 million was put back. Have the alliance parties in different degrees broken an agreement? First of all, we can see something. On the two occasions – the spring and autumn budgets – when the alliance parties and the government have made their proposals for the budget that will now apply, the government has added SEK 175 million in relation to what was previously in force. None of the alliance parties have gone beyond that addition. I can look at p. 106, car. 3, in the report. The appropriation for the Government Office and more would, according to the Government's proposal, be more than SEK 7 billion. The Moderates have reduced it by 104 million, the Centre Party by 174.5 million, the People's Party by 26 million and the Christian Democrats by 109.5 million. All alliance parties are far below the increase of SEK 175 million proposed by the government. The only ones that stand out are the Swedish Democrats, who managed to land precisely on the magic figure of 300 million, which once the Social Democrats agreed with them to reduce with. They're still there. But the rest of us aren't so drastic-- the other way around. It is within this increase that all our cutting proposals lie. They will, in brackets, not go through in the Chamber. We know that, because we've already found out. What do we want to do with our whole? In addition to this reduction, we Christian Democrats want the World Bank, which has been commissioned to carry out a further study on the business environment in Sweden, to carry out that study. We want to increase the allocation 6:1, General elections and democracy, by 5 million more than the government. We want to reduce the funding to the county boards by SEK 25 million. It is an increase that has to do with their environmental responsibilities, which we believe they can manage anyway. I would also like to point out the importance of safeguarding democracy against violent extremism. All alliance parties have lifted this more than the government, or as much in any case. By redeployment, perhaps there is more. The Christian Democrats want to increase that grant by SEK 15 million. We believe that violent extremism is one of the worst threats to our democracy. We must protect our democracy from the ultimate attack. Unfortunately, it has become even more relevant since we wrote the exercise. The terrible deeds in Paris have taken place since then. In addition, the Christian Democrats propose that the grant 6:3, Datainspektionen, should be 2 million higher than the government's proposal for next year. The agency's efforts to prevent and counteract privacy violations, including online hate speech, need to be reinforced. It costs money, and we want to add that. Finally, this appropriation concerns 7:1 measures for national minorities. We believe that more municipalities should be allowed to become part of the administrative areas of Meänkieli, Sami and Finnish that already exist, which should be financed by redeployment within the framework of the grant.
i-247r7q24ujZAwotS1idmbU	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Tuve Skånberg, for raising the question in your main speech and increasing the transparency of what happened at the 2011 deliberation! Nevertheless, I think it is worth considering and taking a position on this: is it only the case that a government should be protected against the breaking out of its budget of certain items of appropriations in one area of expenditure and that they are subject to a different approach, either in the budgetary process itself or at a later date? Is this what this is about? Yeah, it's about that, to some extent. But it is also about the government's position in government. Of course, the amounts involved are small, but as the situation is now parliamentary, we see from the motions that the government does not actually have an absolute majority in this House for this appropriation, as well as other appropriations. Here we are talking about something that is still deeply important. In reality, Parliament cannot work for a full machine without government and government machinery. And the achievement of the aspirations of the state powers can only be achieved by means of class funding. A minority government here is constantly at risk in terms of the possibility of ruling the kingdom in the constitutional sense. My question to Tuve Skånberg is: would it not be good to end this debate with a statement – every minority government understands that it is easier for the opposition to come up with proposals like this, but that is something we should stay away from?
i-1c5b270610113148-753	Mr President, I would like to Yes, that could be a final observation. Let me start by noting something. None of the alliance parties has broken out anything and reached an agreement, thereby throwing this over the top, which actually happened with the 300 million we are discussing here. All alliance parties are well placed within the growth that the government has now actually achieved after the Framework Decision has been adopted. We have not acted to break it out or to lie down on the same numbers. There is a difference between the alliance parties. Thus, even theoretically, we could not have done so. Yes, it's a minority government. A minority government must also feel confident that it can rule. At least it's tolerated. It is not impossible that this, like other issues, can be discussed. But we don't have a deal behind us that we've broken. Without a mandate for me to start negotiations here and now we can still open the door because this is one of the issues that can be discussed in the future. I would just like to remind you that the government did not anchor changes in foreign representation, as it committed itself. The government has announced the consul in New York and embassies in Manila, Lima and Tunis without anchoring it. So when it comes to agreements, the government has its lesson.
i-1c5b270610113148-757	Mr President, I would like to Of course, I am responding positively from our point of view to the attitude which Mr Skånberg personally states here in the speaker's chair, namely that it would be possible to reason on this appropriation and its position close to the constitutional state. I welcome this, as have several of the comments made by the previous speakers during the debate. I would like to say that we look forward to such contacts.
i-1c5b270610113148-759	Mr President, I would like to With that I give Björn von Sydow the last word.
i-1c5b270610113148-760	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by saying that we from the Social Democrats and the Green Party, supported by the Left Party, see that there are major differences between the parties of the Alliance in their overall management of Category 1. We see this about the discussion that we have had here in the form of the lines. We believe, of course, that it is positive that the Liberals have presented a budget that seems balanced and reasonable. Other parties in the Alliance have a different orientation. I would like to mention that as a result of the discussion we have had about the appropriation for the Government Office. Mr President, I would like to I would like to make a few more points. One concerns the issue of funding for the county administrative boards. Here we have a broad question which has to do with how many county boards and counties we should have and how the regional community organisation should be constructed. We have an ambitious ambition from the government to still be able to bring about a change to the positive in the form of regions with accompanying democratic organisation that is better sent to deal with social issues. We hope that there will be an interest in all parties in Parliament in order to make a change during this parliamentary term in the very tough question of a regional level that really means regions, something more than the reasonable position that several counties have acquired as regions. Nevertheless, I would like to ask a question here about the savings and cuts that the Alliance is aiming at our county boards. Today, our county boards are anemic, as one of the colleagues in the committee or perhaps more people say. There have been reductions. What has also happened is that the county boards have very temporary grants. When we visited Västra Götaland in Gothenburg, I had the feeling that almost half of the grants that a county administrative board had were of a temporary nature. It is, of course, very difficult for a county administrative board to be able to manage its staffing and responsibility for its tasks in such a situation. I would like to take this opportunity to ask the alliance parties what their view is on the situation of the county boards. Here I am addressing the Center Party in particular. The Center Party is the party that actually comes up to 30 million. The others may be close enough but are below this amount. In the explanatory statement, I can read that the deviation is due to the fact that the reserveer does not support the government's efforts in the environmental field and in developing services and payment services. I wonder if that argument could perhaps be developed a little from the speaker's seat. Mr President, I would like to Two important issues have been raised. This applies to our national minorities, and it is to Roma inclusion. Our position is that it is urgent to review the law on the rights of national minorities and that this should be able to work better in the administrative areas. We are in favour of this. We have also noted that the Government will also review the need for further clarification on this point, linked to our Convention commitments both within and outside the administrative areas. We believe that the system is well founded and that we show that Sweden takes the issue of minority languages seriously. However, the Ministry and our Minister for Culture have noted that there have been signals that these funds are not being used in a way that is fully effective and follow-up – therefore this review. The government has assured both here and in other ways that the strategy is not to weaken the institute with administrative areas for minority languages – quite the opposite. That's improving the system. That's the background. Let me also say that, on the issue of Roma inclusion, it is a temporary initiative that is now ending, and it is intended to provide money, SEK 13 million from 2016, to continue work on the Roma inclusion strategy. This is a priority work for the government and, I know, for the Parliament's Constitutional Committee.
i-1c5b270610113148-770	Mr President, I would like to Björn von Sydow has now spent a lot of time talking about a few percentage points of support to the Government Office and about the county boards. One recognizes the old state-hugging Social Democracy in Björn von Sydow. Instead, let us devote a few minutes to the hundreds of thousands of people affected by this very thing with the Finnish administration and also the Sami administration, for example. Björn von Sydow moved from the speaker's chair that this should be reviewed, but the absolutely strongest signal that has come in from these municipalities is that it works very well and is very requested to be able to get this service from the municipalities. Now you're freezing this whole thing. A review can be carried out in parallel with the continuation of a fundamentally good system. Of course, you should always look at whether the money is used completely efficiently or if there is improvement to be made, but stopping this for an unknown time forward feels like the wrong way to go. Why do the government and the Left Party give priority to doing so?
i-1c5b270610113148-774	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mathias Sundin, for the kindness of calling me a state hugger! I can take it in a humorous way, but I can also say that, now that we are living you in these serious times, in many democratic countries it has become a greater understanding of a state power or an effective public power. In fact, if I remember correctly, it was noticed from the attack of 11 September 2001. The research carried out by Rothstein, for example, shows how tremendously crucial it is that public power is not corrupt. After all, he believes that the first requirement, almost, is a corruption-free society, before the demand for human rights and popular participation in democracy in a broad sense. As a former gamma in state hugging, I can say that in difficult times an effective state administration is very important and also effective democratic participation. There, the opportunities and rights of minority languages for the people who have them play a very important role. So I do not see any direct contradiction in this. We know that it is appreciated, but we have received some indications to the government that there may be problems that have to do with whether the money comes to the right use. Is it reasonable to use them as you do? The review has that purpose, and in this light we have considered it acceptable this time.
i-1c5b270610113148-779	Mr President, I would like to It will probably be one more political scientist to intensify research so much that a little more government officials would be what people are asking for in crisis situations. That is not what I have heard from my constituents, but we have different voters. Of course, there should be an effective state administration, but it is hardly determined by 2 or 3 percentage points more to the Government Office or just how much the county boards have. People will react if successful projects and activities are frozen, as these administrative areas are. In Norrköping, from which I come, there are many Finnish speakers. I know that they appreciate very much, not least in the autumn of their age, to get information from the municipality in Finnish. Norrköping has already become an administrative area, so there is not the big problem. But there are a lot of people who want to get into the system. On the Liberal side, we have spent money on this and even to be able to increase aid, but it is of course important to see that the money is spent more efficiently. I know that there is a call for more dialogue with representatives of Finnish groups, such as Sami groups. But that does not stop you from doing this at the same time as you continue. If Björn von Sydow were to stop all the projects he is going to evaluate all the time, the government that he is waging for would really have problems.
i-1c5b270610113148-784	Mr President, I would like to We have a great understanding of what an important element it is in a democracy with minority rights, not least language skills and the possibility of being fully involved in its own native language, its mother tongue. We have a full understanding of that. The system shall be developed, not decommissioned. We believe that, even within the defined framework, there are opportunities for authorities and governments to give new minorities access to administrative status, but there are not the same financial opportunities for action in the coming financial year. We hope that the review will be carried out quickly and that the government can come to Parliament with an established proposal in the future.
i-1c5b270610113148-786	Mr President, I would like to The last year has been, as many have said, especially. Autumn has been very special in politics. After all, this spring the government got through a spring change budget and was able to conduct its own policy. But last autumn the December agreement and also the Alliance's joint budgetary cooperation fell. Now the government can get its policies through, but now the other parties can also develop their policies. This strengthens both the Riksdag and the Government. It is needed because there are revolutionary changes in these times. Today, we are debating the report to the KU1, the Kingdom Board, which includes the Government Office, the County Administrative Boards, the Parliamentary Administration, minority policy and pre-support. There are 23 motion requests, of which five are alternative draft budgets. Four legislative proposals from the Government and a legislative proposal from the Riksdag Board will enter into force in January. I naturally support the committee's proposal for a decision. As far as pre-aid is concerned, we in the Constitutional Committee have worked during the year to adjust the various aids so that the pre-aid funds can be better used. In particular, I would like to thank the representatives of the alliance parties who have been constructive and have contributed to the creation of the new development aid for digitisation, which has been very much awaited in the industry. The government intends to come back with a major review of pre-financing, but in the meantime this is an improvement for a hard-hit industry. I welcome several of the motions that have been raised and which we have debated today. They are largely about work going on in the Government Office. They relate, for example, to the review of minority policy. Björn von Sydow spoke of this. They are also about all the investigations currently under way to strengthen privacy, and several of the motions address the issue of a privacy council or similar or to strengthen the Swedish Data Protection Authority. The government is also committed to preventing violent extremism, as some have talked about. I therefore call for the committee's proposal to be approved.
i-1c5b270610113148-793	Mr President, I would like to One area that was important for the alliance government, and where we felt much support from the Green Party, is the work with the Roma group in Sweden. I described earlier in my speech how the group has been subjected to oppression and discrimination in Sweden for many centuries. This spring the House approved a motion from the Liberals and Erik Ullenhag on continued work against anti-Ziganism and for Roma inclusion. It was an announcement to the government. Despite the previously ambitious work of the Alliance and the amount of proposals that went to the government that obliges, the government is cutting down by SEK 2 million in this area. How does Agneta Börjesson defend this, and how does she intend to increase the level of ambition if the money is cut back at the same time?
i-NfMWRCXSXtJEAnYUGi9zj5	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mathias Sundin, for the question! The area is extremely important to work with in many different ways. I would like to thank the Liberals for the work that has been done. A large and extensive temporary project has been going on, but it will continue. I can only say it right now. I do not know exactly what it looks like on the budget side, but the project will continue.
i-1c5b270610113148-797	Mr President, I would like to That is positive news, but it is not backed up by what is actually in the budget that you are going to draw through. There it is reduced by 2 million. It may be a temporary project, but it does provide the opportunity to transfer money to another. Of course, in order to carry out what is stated in the Liberals' motion that was clubbed a few months ago in Parliament, money is also needed. To reduce resources to the area is not a good thing to say that they will be implemented. I hope, of course, that the money will come in next year's budget, but this budget for the coming years, which is now decided, unfortunately, does not have any money at all. I hope that I do not have to come back to the issue or raise the issue with Agneta Börjesson in the next budget debate, but that there is a lot of money. From the Liberals' side, we're shooting at $5 million to the area.
i-1c5b270610113148-800	Mr President, I would like to There are, as I said, a number of different projects going on. I heard yesterday that a new agreement is being concluded with Bulgaria similar to what has been concluded with Romania to work on the ground, and there will be a series of other measures with which the government intends to come back.
i-1c5b270610113148-801	Mr President, I would like to During the debate, I have been thinking about what kind of demonstration Björn von Sydow has put us through. What did he want to demonstrate? Is that power? When you are in a position of government and represent the government in the Riksdag, is you entitled to demand that the opposition should not ask or wonder what is behind decisions that we are expected to vote on and at best know and be able to stand behind before the Swedish people? I started by articulating that the government of Löfven, the MP-S government, has introduced a regime that means that the budget proposals do not account for the effects of the political proposals they have. These are important issues such as the number of annual workers, employment, unemployment and GDP. When we get those proposals here to Parliament, we need to be able to count on, think about, review and analyse them. Those numbers are gone now. We have to answer – not first and foremost to ourselves here, but when we come out in constituencies we will be able to explain what decisions we make. When we do not get the knowledge of this, we think from moderate quarters that then the Riksdag itself will have to get it by transferring some money from the Government Office to the administrative side of the Riksdag, to the investigation service, so that it will have a stronger capacity to help us get the answers we need in order to make wise decisions. My question to Björn von Sydow is therefore: are the Social Democrats and the Green Party prepared to return to the order in force under the alliance government, which reported these figures in the budget? I would like an answer to that.
i-1c5b270610113148-806	Mr President, I would like to What lies behind the government's way of presenting the budget bill I cannot answer. I can, of course, find out the answer to that question, but I do not have it now. I can say, however, that we are interested in impact assessments of various kinds. There is no fundamental aversion in us to having them. The proposal made by the Moderates to expand the parliamentary investigation service will not go through now with the order of decision we have. But we have not argued about the question of how to use the budgetary space that you think you are releasing by cutting back on the Government Office. It is used mainly for other expenditure or to finance other areas of expenditure. In reality, in society, we have a fairly comprehensive measurement of effectiveness. The most important is the national auditors. There is well general agreement that it is a very important instrument because the Swedish National Audit Office's work takes place without any, so to speak, strategic intentions. It is a good instrument that we often use. We fully agree that it is an effective form of impact measurement in addition to traditional audital analysis. The step from criticising how the government reports the measure of effectiveness in the budget bill to having a proposal to reduce the grant to the Government Office is difficult for me to understand in this context. We still see that it is very urgent for us to have discussions which will make it possible for the parties and constellations that are still to carry up the government power that we are obliged to have to know that this does not mean that we need to risk cuts that we do not find ourselves possible or appropriate or that we find unfit for the exercise of government power.
i-1c5b270610113148-812	Mr President, I would like to Yes, of course, the governors are there. I also note that Björn von Sydow has no aversion to impact assessment and such. Well, that sounds excellent. On the other hand, the Government's Löfven seem to have a certain reluctance to evaluate the impact, in any case as regards the parliament's ability to evaluate the Government's proposals. That's the serious thing, and what I'm looking for here is to get confirmation that that's what it looks like. In that situation, should we, as the highest political representative and legislator of the Swedish people, accept that the government does not think we should know this? Should we decide on the basis of what we can sit in our Chamber and think of ourselves? Parliament has an opportunity to help us through the investigation service, but it would need to be strengthened to compensate for the information we no longer receive so that we can make those good decisions that voters expect of us. I do not have much more to add, but that is what I have to say. As I said, I take note of Björn von Sydow's reply.
i-1c5b270610113148-817	Mr President, I would like to I thank you for the understanding that Maria Abrahamsson has shown in her reply. There are other instruments, of course, which are also formally under the government, but which are of importance to us. It is, for example, the Council of Finance Policy. It is an organisation which, in a way, also measures effects and proposes both criticism and success prospects, not only in general fiscal policy but also in many areas. We are free to use this. We also have the opportunity, within the committees, to hold hearings and so on and to press for information, for example on something that any committee believes has not been given sufficient clarity by the government. There is therefore no reluctance in us to have good opportunities for the Riksdag to investigate the effects of government proposals. We're totally open to that. I would just like to say that, as a mark of interest, the Moderates' proposal to increase Parliament's administrative appropriations, for which Maria Abrahamsson has argued, is SEK 5 million. The reduction of the Government Office is SEK 104 million.
i-1c5b270610113148-822	Mr President, I would like to I understand that the next time I meet my constituents, who wonder what we were basing the budgetary decisions in this House on, I will say: if you have questions, we have a financial policy advice you can ask; perhaps you can call there. We have the governors, who you can also call. Then we in the committees can push out those figures that we do not get in the budget. This can be done, but everything would be much easier if the government said: It was not so good that we covered up these figures because they are so relevant to Parliament's positions. Maybe we should bring them back anyway. That's what I was after. I'll think about how I interpret Björn von Sydow's answer here today. I'll have to read the Minutes and come back to the matter.
i-1c5b270610113148-825	Mr President, I would like to I would like to give the final floor to Maria Abrahamsson. I was given that opportunity by Tuve Skånberg, and I would like to take advantage of it and thank you for the debate today.
i-1c5b270610113148-826	Mr President, I would like to I owe Björn von Sydow an answer about the grant to the county boards, and I will try to do so. But first of all, I would like to thank Agneta Börjesson for his recognition of the efforts made by the alliance parties for the survival of the newspapers in terms of frontloading, improvement and development aid. I am, of course, grateful that the government has included this in the 2016 budget. With regard to the sum of 30 million to the county boards mentioned by Björn von Sydow, there is an increase in the appropriations that the Center Party does not support in its draft budget. They're not cutbacks. These increases include the acquisition of forests to protect them. We think that you have very high ambitions when it comes to protecting forests. There have been quite a lot of reactions from the forestry industry to the far-reaching proposals for protective measures that exist. It is important that we discuss the direction of the measures to be taken by the county boards. On the whole, our experience of the county administrative boards' management of environmental grants is not very positive. It is therefore important that we have a dialogue on this direction. As far as payment services are concerned, we have poor experience of previous systems that have been put in place for payment services. Swedish cash services became a fiasco. I think that it would be more effective to enter into cooperation with ICA and Coop and thus try to resolve some of these issues instead of thinking that we are resolving the issue of payment systems with appropriations for new forms of cash services. Here we also need to have a discussion on what methods to use.
i-1c5b270610113148-832	Mr President, I would like to We're going to debate the government's bill on plant clearance for biofuels. I shall begin by calling for our reservation, No 1. The Government's proposal means that the continued deduction of energy and CO2 tax on biofuels is conditional on the existence of a so-called plant statement. In the future, it is necessary to demonstrate that a system is in place to ensure that the biofuels on which the deduction is based are not food-based or, if so, have been produced in installations put into operation before 31 December 2013. The plant must also not be completely depreciated. The European Commission has extended the Swedish reduction in the energy and CO2 tax on biofuels until 31 December 2015 and the Government has applied for an extension. However, the referral period was as short as a week, and that is certainly not recommended. Mr President, I would like to We are opposed to parts of the content of the proposal to introduce plant clearance. However, the reduction in the tax burden on biofuels is crucial and also to be able to maintain it in the future, which is deemed possible by this proposal. We therefore support the proposal but make several comments and suggestions in our reservation. The Government considers that it is necessary to adapt to the Commission Communication on guidelines for aid for environmental protection and energy for 2014 – 2020 that food-based biofuels may only be granted for installations put into operation before 31 December 2013. However, this assessment is not shared by all three Justice Councils of the Law Council, as can be seen from the opinion of the Law Council. It is also clear from the committee's report that unlike the Commission regulation adopted in 2014, the ILUC directive, adopted in September 2015, does not contain a direct definition of the term food-based biofuels. It is very important that we have long-term instruments and instruments that do not exclude specific raw materials, whether imported or domestic. I am thinking, for example, of various catch crops and intermediate crops, which may not be ready but which may be raw material and which, during the growing season, binds both phosphorus and nitrogen to the soil. I am thinking of harvests that have been wiped out or drowned by floods, that is to say, failures. Are these food-based or not? Yes, from the beginning, of course, they were. But what is the alternative? Well, many times to plow it all down again. Mr President, I would like to A definition of what food-based biofuels are really needed. For example, there is no impact assessment on the impact of biofuels imports. How can a statement be made whether or not an establishment in Brazil is completely depreciated? In view of the short consultation period, it is difficult to be surprised by a lack of impact assessment, but it is easy to be disappointed about that. One effect may be that there will be a barrier to trade in the import of raw materials. This could mean that the share of biofuels on the Swedish market does not increase but decreases, which could lead to an increase in emissions from the transport sector. It is good that we have an extension, but the government must work to get long-term instruments that steer in the right direction. We need long-term and technology-neutral instruments that reward biofuels with high climate benefits. The government should therefore act against the Commission and work towards a revision of the EU guidelines on deductions for energy support, in order to amend, inter alia, the definition of food-based biofuels and to comply with the definition in the ILUC Directive. This definition is more in line with our view that legislation should not hamper the use of agricultural raw materials. We need long-term technology-neutral instruments that reward biofuels with high climate benefits. Support should be given to these, and it should not be decisive when an installation was put into operation or whether it is fully depreciated or not. We have a goal of increasing the share of renewable energy in the transport sector, and we all agree that biofuels are and will continue to be a good tool in achieving our ambitious environmental objectives. But then we need long-term and technology-neutral instruments. I assume that the government will take this seriously and work for a revision of the guidelines for support and that the government will return to Parliament with concrete proposals that are cost- and climate-efficient and can reduce emissions from the transport sector.
i-1c5b270610113148-846	Mr President, I would like to Today, we are debating the Government's proposal on plant clearance for biofuels. The aim is to extend the subsidies available for biofuels for a further period of time. This bill, as we Swedish democrats, sees it as a major flaw. The starting point when tax subsidies were introduced was that they were needed during a transitional period. In view of the market situation and the development of research and the extension of subsidies, one might wonder whether it is not a question of permanent subsidies. In fact, it looks like it will be. Tax on ordinary petrol and diesel brings in 40 – 50 billion annually, but with this policy the tax base is eroded. We in the Swedish Democrats prefer welfare – jobs and health care – to state-subsidised biofuels projects that do not cost-effectively reduce emissions. It is important to emphasise that the investment in biofuels costs a lot of money – several billion each year. Since the introduction of the reform, it is certainly a question of tens of billions. We wonder whether this is an effective way of reducing CO2 emissions. For this reason, in our accompanying motion, we have proposed a cost-benefit analysis. Politicians, perhaps bourgeois ones in particular, tend to point out that one should be careful to try to steer technological development, but in terms of energy policy and the field of fuels this does not seem to apply. In the energy sector, we can see that some types of energy are subsidised by over 100%. In the case of biofuels, the risk of having contributed to bringing Sweden onto an expensive and inefficient stick track that will never bear fruit. Technology neutrality does not seem to be particularly important in this area. Sweden currently has very low CO2 emissions per capita, and the measures now proposed are really completely insignificant in a larger perspective. Moreover, if the biofuels sector is to be dramatically expanded, as some would like, the result may actually be an increase in CO2 emissions. This has been highlighted by the environmental movement in Europe, which is why their support for biofuels is very weak today. Mr President, I would like to The foundation of Sweden's democrats' energy policy is to maintain and develop hydropower and nuclear power, which contributes to our low imports of fossil fuels. We do not believe in ploughing billions into extremely marginal reductions in carbon dioxide through, for example, ethanol production. As far as bioethanol is concerned, we in the Swedish Democrats have already put our foot down. As we have made clear in our last two budgetary motions, we urgently want to phase out the subsidies for ethanol. We are sceptical about biofuels in general, but when it comes to ethanol, we can already say that the initiative has been a major, capital failure. It has cost taxpayers big money to little benefit, but it has also cost car owners big money as a result of wrecked engines. It has gone so far that car owners with ethanol cars rarely dare to refuel their cars with ethanol, and a plethora of service workshops across the country today advise against refuelling this fuel. Although the requirements for ethanol have been raised in recent years – that it should be produced sustainably and so on – both the Royal Swedish Academy of Ethnics and the United Nations have still made it clear that it is not reasonable to grant arable land for this purpose. Not least the cultivation of new land, which is the consequence of increased use of these fuels, changes land use in a way that generates a carbon debt that it will take many decades to compensate for. In plain language, CO2 emissions are thus increasing for decades to come. At the same time, invaluable untouched nature risks disappearing, which affects the world's biodiversity. Furthermore, all the problems associated with agriculture, such as eutrophication, water use and the use of pesticides, are increasing. The Swedish National Audit Office writes in its report Klimat for the money that the government – the previous government, but this probably also applies to the current one – has not coordinated infrastructure planning with the climate targets, but hopes that large, now unknown, technological leaps will be able to contribute to emission reductions. It is an irresponsible policy, especially since the government has not clearly coordinated climate research with climate objectives to focus research on achieving the technological leaps that would be needed. At the same time, the latest IPCC report has highlighted clear conflicts between first generation biofuels and global food security. In many parts of the world, it has been seen how the poorest are affected. In view of this, the government must carry out a broader analysis of the benefits of biofuels. The land is needed to produce food, but this production leads to more people being forced to go hungry around the world. I would like to conclude by calling for approval of the Swedish Democrats' reservation 2.
i-1c5b270610113148-861	Mr President, I would like to The honourable Member talks about ethanol but not so much about domestic biofuels. We have forest waste, catch crops and slaughterhouse waste. If we can use it for energy, we will increase our domestic production of energy and be able to drive our cars and hopefully trucks on environmentally friendly fuel in the future. That this is something to benefit from in the future, I think most parties except the Swedish Democrats agree on. To become more independent of imports of oil and fossil gas, for example, I see only as an advantage. The methods are getting better. I was at a lecture at the Ministry of Industry the other day, and there was a lot of talk about biofuels. The Minister for Energy was the rapporteur. It is an advantage if in the future we can both be environmentally friendly and make ourselves more independent of our environment. We have hydropower – we should be very grateful for that. I want to keep nuclear power. But we cannot expand the hydroelectric power in any way; it is also an intervention in the environment if we start doing so. The Swedish Democrats believe that we should save ourselves with nuclear power, and we should certainly not have ethanol. My question is: are the Swedish Democrats against biofuels?
i-1c5b270610113148-865	Mr President, I would like to I agree with much of what Gunilla Nordgren points out. If we can enable domestic production of the next generation of biofuels that is cost-effective and viable, that is a positive thing. It is precisely for this reason that we do not reject the bill as a whole. What we want is a cost-benefit analysis of the investments. Will they behave over time? Is there the potential that has been talked about for so long and that all lobbyists devote a lot of energy to milking money out of the treasury so that they can continue? Today we see that various research facilities are closing down because they do not believe in this. I do not want to completely dismiss the next generation of biofuels, but we want an overview of the business so that we see if these are really the right things to spend the money on.
i-1c5b270610113148-869	Mr President, I would like to Then I might have misunderstood, but I don't think I was the only one. It sounded very negative to everything. When it comes to technology neutral, that is exactly what we write in our reservation. We also want an impact assessment. This is important, and that is why we are criticising the fact that you only have one week's time for referral. We also say yes, because we want to keep the deduction, but we demand that the government in the future produce an impact assessment and instruments that are cost-effective, benefit the environment and are technologically neutral. There we are quite in agreement, but when I read your reservation, Martin Kinnunen, it seems that you want to remove everything and that we are apparently going to live on hydropower and nuclear power. I think biofuels are the melody of the future. When I was at the Ministry of Industry on Monday, there were very positive notes about biofuels. There are many different techniques, and there is much research. The haulage companies that were there, Volvo Cars and all sorts of things, were very positive about continuing the development of biofuels. There are several different methods, and there are seven different fuels that I shall not mention here. We say biofuels, but it's divided – it's hydrogen and everything. It's the future. Therefore, we will continue to work and research more on biofuels and ensure that we benefit them in all possible ways so that we can achieve our future environmental goals. They're tough, but this is one way to reach them.
i-1c5b270610113148-874	Mr President, I would like to When I read the bourgeois reservation, I perceive it as wanting to invest more in this and think the government is far too passive. At least I can see that we want to spend even more tax money on this. There is talk of many companies and many researchers taking a positive view of this. That's funny. But the reason why there is a lot of lobbying in this area is that entrepreneurs want to have a share of taxpayers' money. Maybe they should have that to some extent. But then we must also be able to make it clear that that tax money goes to something that is useful. It is true that in our accompanying motion we are sceptical. This is precisely because we want to know whether this money will be useful and whether we will reduce emissions in relation to the invested krona in a cost-effective way. There has been no proper analysis of the activity, as we see it.
i-1c5b270610113148-877	Mr President, I would like to Imagine a Sweden where the vehicles on our roads run on RME from Swedish rapeseed, HVO from Swedish pine, ethanol from Swedish wheat, electricity from Swedish wind turbines and biogas from both crops and waste, a Sweden where it is the green carbon atom from field and forest that together with renewable electricity is driving our growth, our economy and our vehicles forward! The vision is possible, and it is a vision that the Riksdag has endorsed by deciding on a fossil-independent vehicle fleet by 2030. During the time of the alliance government in power, the share of renewable energy in the transport sector tripled, and in 2012 Sweden reached the EU-wide target of 10% renewable in the transport sector by 2020. Today, renewable energy accounts for just over 18% of the energy demand in the Swedish transport sector. That's good, but it's far from enough if we're serious about this vision. According to us in the Center Party, the way goes through instruments such as bonuses – malus, where environmentally poor vehicles are taxed higher and environmentally friendly are taxed lower, expansion of charging infrastructure and investment in super-environmental truck premium. We want to chase the emissions – not the cars. But an equally important piece of the puzzle to reach the goal is the Swedish view of the green carbon atom's part in the carbon dioxide cycle. Ever since 1991, the Swedish model of carbon tax exemption for renewable fuels has driven the development of more biofuels in the idea. In Sweden we know that the green carbon atom, unlike the black carbon atom, is part of a cycle. But it is this successful model that the EU now wants to put a stop to. Sweden is relatively alone in having a market for highly blended biofuels. That is something we should be proud of and that should be developed, not slowed down. If Sweden's tax exemption disappears, renewable fuels will find it difficult to compete with fossil energy. Should the European Commission land in a no, it means a major setback, partly for Sweden's climate work as a whole, and partly for those industries and companies whose activities are based on the production and use of biofuels. It is also a setback for the CO2 tax as such, with which the EU should rather be proud of other players in the global climate negotiations that are now under way. It is therefore extremely important for the government to fight for the Swedish model, not just for 2016. For 2020, the EU will review a number of directives and regulations affecting Swedish biofuel production and the use of biofuels. Sweden must create alliances in Europe, we must lie on and press in Brussels and we must ensure that we fight for the Swedish model in all contexts. Taxation must be based on climate performance, not on the taxation of fossil fuels. The fossil norm in the EU must be broken. The proposal put on the table by the Government leaves a number of other things to be desired, as has also been expressed by several consultation bodies. Not least, it is about the view and definition of food-based crops, which will undoubtedly give rise to a number of problems for Swedish biofuel producers. There are also a lot of criticisms to be made about the handling of the referral process, where the referral bodies were given only one week to respond. This has also been criticised by the Council of Ministers. But since the time is now very short, we do not want to risk the possibility of continued tax reductions after 1 January 2016, and therefore we support the current exercise. In addition to fighting for the Swedish model, we urge the government to return to the Riksdag with proposals for long-term instruments. The industry is currently crying out for long-term rules for the investments needed. Such instruments must be ambitious, market-driven and technology-neutral and reward the most climate-efficient biofuels. In order to reach the 2030 target, the Center Party wants to introduce a technology-neutral and ambitious obligation for renewable fuels, requiring fuel companies to step up the share of renewables. This obligation should be based on fuel climate performance and should increase annually according to a step model, in order to drive development and provide long-term conditions. From the government, it is still silent as to how to think about these long-term rules of the game. But as you know, 2030 is approaching by leaps and bounds. The government must shift up the work with a fossil-independent vehicle fleet. It is time to gather together to take steps forward. It is therefore very regrettable that the Energy Commission set up by the Government does not involve transport in the current talks. I and the Center Party fear that the government's lack of leadership in this matter will result in further progress being halted. The government has announced that new instruments will only come in 2018. This means further lost years in the transition to fossil-free. On Monday, the climate summit in Paris began. One of Sweden's most important contributions to this work is our successful work with the transport sector. We cannot allow this opportunity for the EU and Sweden to set an example for the rest of the world to slip out of our hands. It is time that we, who share the vision of a fossil-independent vehicle fleet, gathered together. It's time we took the fossil fight. I commend the Alliance's reservation 1.
i-1c5b270610113148-892	Mr President, I would like to I come up as a third person in the Alliance who is behind the same reservation, so there is perhaps a risk that you repeat yourself a little. I can start with the fact that the decision on the use of biofuels is essentially about long-term economic instruments, which we may all see before us is a good one. From the Liberals' side, much of the tax policy that we are trying to change to, with green tax shifting, is in line with this, when we want to reduce taxes on labour and entrepreneurship and increase taxes on, among other things, environmentally harmful and climate-damaging phenomena. But, Mr President, today, as I said, it is a matter of plant clearance for biofuels. I would like to begin by calling for the joint reservation of the Liberals with the Moderates, the Centre Party and the Christian Democrats and for the rejection of the majority of the committee's proposals on this particular point, n r 2. Otherwise, I support the committee's proposal and the legislative proposal. From the Liberals' side, we support the bill with the very same motives as a large number of referrals express when they have looked at it. They say very clearly that no one really thinks this is a particularly good solution. However, given the time pressure it has become and that we all want the scheme to be extended, that the European Commission has the opportunity to take decisions, we should extend the Swedish scheme on the reduction of energy and CO2 tax on biofuels. The referral bodies – and we on the Liberal side agree with this – express that it is most unfortunate that additional rules and short-term instruments are being imposed. This is not the first time that this industry has been hit by it, and it is, of course, hampering the willingness to invest in this area. From this point of view, we must look to the future. It is therefore crucial for the government to come back with concrete, long-term instruments to reduce emissions from the transport sector in a cost-effective and climate-efficient way, without preventing imports from third countries – as we write in the reservation. That is exactly what the Liberals, together with the other alliance parties, formulate in reservation 1, which I call for. To achieve the objective of a fossil-independent vehicle fleet, clear and long-term instruments are needed to increase the use of climate-efficient biofuels. I can once again say that it is a very unfortunate situation that we cannot take these decisions in the right order, so to speak, but rather get stuck in the European acquis. Another point raised by the consultation bodies, which has been raised here by Kristina Yngwe and Gunilla Nordgren, among others, is the problem of the definition of food-based biofuels and how to interpret this with crops. There are crops that are grown and that can be used both for one and the other. The important thing is really what the purpose is from the beginning when you grow it. There will be great uncertainty about it. In line with this, we point out in a reservation that we do not think that the regulations should exclude certain types of raw materials for biofuel production. As I have mentioned here before, this is very much about the European acquis. One task that the government must therefore immediately take on is to act within the EU and, together with other countries that have revealed the same thing, to try to bring about a revision of the EU guidelines on support for the environment and energy, so that they do not undermine the positive experience we have in Sweden with biofuels. Mr President, I would like to Furthermore, I can see that the issue is complex and that there is a great deal of uncertainty about this. When you read the bill you can see that there is a detailed control of when an installation should be considered to have been put into service and when it should be considered to have been depreciated. The government does not write exactly what applies, but it is an assumption that the words are used and that it should be considered to be. With the short-term instruments involved, and with this uncertainty, it is quite clear that the willingness to invest in this sector is at risk. I don't think any of us think that's particularly good. Although the government is now more or less obliged to present the bill in this condition in order for the aid schemes to be extended from the turn of the year, the call in the reservation to the government is to immediately take on the long-term and to make concrete proposals. It says in the bill that you should do this by 2017. But it feels like you're delaying this for a very long time. I believe that this can be done much faster. It is therefore this call that we in the alliance parties bring to the government in reservation 1.
i-1c5b270610113148-906	Mr President, I would like to The subject of today's debate concerns perhaps the most important political issue we are facing right now, namely climate policy. We can see that what has been done so far and what is planned to be done to prevent global warming is not enough. An even more ambitious climate policy is needed worldwide in order for humanity to have a chance to limit the increase in global warming to less than two degrees. In the run-up to the Paris climate summit, the world's countries have submitted data on their planned CO2 emission reductions. But it is not enough. It does not break the increase in greenhouse gas emissions either by 2025 or by 2030. In addition to ambitious decisions at UN level, active work at national, regional and local level is required. California is an often mentioned example of how the regional level has been able to switch to more climate-neutral energy and made demands on the car industry. There are also further examples. Örebro Municipality, where I happen to live, is an example that I would like to highlight. It has succeeded in local climate work and set intermediate targets for oil consumption, transport, electricity consumption, district heating, etc. A knowledge centre for the restoration of wetlands and an increased ambition in the climate programme are some of Örebro's ongoing projects. Nevertheless, it is probably the environmental work on the financial side that impresses the most, writes Environmentally topical because Örebro has been appointed the best environmental municipality in 2015. Responsible municipal councillor, Christian Democrat Lennart Bondeson, says that procurement is a powerful tool that every municipality must use. He also says that an investment policy is not very difficult to formulate. All municipalities should do so. So they have worked quite a lot with the financial side, which I think has contributed to the fact that they have become the 2015 environmental municipality. The goal of reducing the municipal organisation's own climate load by 40% by 2020 will be achieved by far. The new proposal is now for the municipality group to become completely climate neutral by 2030, and for the geographical area a 70% reduction is to be made. Even in those countries that are now rapidly industrialised, a large part of the work needs to be done at local level. Here the rich countries must help with technical know-how and funding. Each country and private operator must take their share of the responsibility here. Our country, Sweden, has very good conditions for sustainable and climate-neutral production of energy and fuel. Our environmentally conscious agriculture and forestry contribute to this. Renewable fuels contribute to a climate-neutral transport system. It is therefore important that climate-neutral fuels are not burdened with a carbon tax as if they were fossil fuels. Unfortunately, the European Commission is finding it difficult to see this difference. Mr President, I would like to According to the regulatory framework that we are now discussing, it is considered within the EU, as the report also shows, as state aid when we do not want climate-neutral biofuels to be charged with carbon tax – even after 31 December this year. This leads to error. I welcome, of course, the fact that the government has sent its letter to the Commission calling for constructive cooperation in order to bring about a more reasonable regime for the taxation of fossil and renewable fuels respectively. Mr President, I would like to I would now like the Parliament to follow this up by agreeing to the Alliance's request that the Government should work towards a revision of the EU guidelines on aid for environmental protection and energy. It is completely unreasonable that the Swedish model should be prevented by the European Commission. It is important that Sweden, together with countries with similar experiences and conditions, acts towards the Commission in order to immediately change the regulatory framework for environmental and energy aid. Mr President, I would like to With these words, I am in favour of the Alliance's reservation 1 in the report and otherwise in favour of the committee's proposal.
i-GLjNXMP8emFnB3MMbsiCA3	Mr President, I would like to The Committee on Agriculture and the Environment's report 5, Plant notice for biofuels, has its background in the state aid approval for tax exemptions for biofuels if Sweden has until 31 December this year. The development of general policy instruments for fuels in the transport sector in a way that is sustainable in the long term, based on the EU's state aid framework, is currently in full swing. But until such a system is in place, Sweden needs to be able to continue with the existing system even after 2015. For that to be possible, we need to adjust the system so that we comply with the Commission's state aid rules. This means that plants producing biofuels from crops can only be supported if they have been put into operation before 31 December 2013 and are not fully depreciated. The amendments to the Energy Tax Act and the Act on Sustainability Criteria for Biofuels and Liquid Biofuels aim to ensure just that. Mr President, I would like to The government has a clear and forward-looking climate and energy agenda. The ambition is 100 percent renewable energy in the long term. The use of fossil fuels will decrease and investments in climate change will increase. The achievement of this in the transport sector is a challenge. The transport sector is responsible for one third of Sweden's climate emissions, and they must be reduced. Biofuels, among other things, have an important role to play here. The process of developing long-term instruments is surrounded by a number of restrictions where the EU acquis may be the most important. The previous government's proposal on quota obligations and on the related tax changes for biofuels ran into problems and had to be withdrawn. It is important not least for the sake of industry that future proposals do not suffer the same fate. Mr President, I would like to I am convinced that biofuels have an important role to play, and in this role there is also potential in terms of jobs and growth locally as well as export purposes. The concern is that it is not simple. If it had been easy, the previous government would probably have done it already. This is complicated, and we must do it properly – preferably in agreement. Basically, there is really no difference of opinion between us on what we should achieve, but on how it should be done. It's proved more complicated than you thought. Having said that, I support the proposal in the report and reject all reservations.
i-1c5b270610113148-926	Mr President, I would like to I really just have a few questions for Maria Strömkvist. Do the Social Democrats believe that it is important to develop long-term technology-neutral instruments? This is what we write in our reservation that the government should work out these instruments, influence the European Commission and return to Parliament with rules in this direction. It is just as Maria Strömkvist said, namely that we, as so often in politics, have a great consensus but that it concerns the question of how. We have common goals, but on the question of how to get there we differ a little. So it is just a short question. Are the Social Democrats willing to let the government work for the conclusions we write in our reservation?
i-1c5b270610113148-929	Mr President, I would like to On the first question you had, I would answer yes, Gunilla Nordgren. Then you wrap it up in your proposal, and then the answer is no. It can be that way sometimes. But of course we have a consensus. We think it should be long-term and that the rules of the game must apply over time. Unfortunately, we are not there, and it has been going on for a few years – in fact, since before the current government.
i-1c5b270610113148-930	Mr President, I would like to My question was if you want to work for the government to work out long-term rules. We are not there today, and we agree that we are not there today. But are you prepared to work for the government to work this out and influence Europe so that we can get back to Parliament and get a number of effective, long-term rules of the game and instruments? That's my question.
i-1c5b270610113148-931	Mr President, I would like to To that question, the answer is that this work is going on here and now.
i-1c5b270610113148-932	Mr President, I would like to During the morning, a parliamentary seminar was held on the road to a fossil-independent vehicle fleet. There we were able to note that, just as you mentioned in your speech, Maria Strömkvist, there are indeed very big requests from the industry to find the long-term rules of the game. There is a great deal of uncertainty. This work experiences many in the industry has stopped. It was difficult during our time, and these are definitely complicated issues. What is being experienced now, and as we are experiencing, however, is that there is no real leadership on the issue. No one is really holding on to the question of how we can come forward together. Then I and the Center Party find it very regrettable that the government has set up an Energy Commission to take a concerted approach to energy issues but not to include transport issues. My question is therefore: how do the Social Democrats think about the aspect that transport issues have been removed from the Energy Commission when we actually need to have a comprehensive approach?
i-1c5b270610113148-935	Mr President, I would like to My still wonder is why we're arguing about something we really agree on, but it might be like this in this house. The government is working on as soon as possible. However, it should not just be quick, but it must be right too. Several departments are affected by this issue right now, and they are working together to resolve it. Although Sweden is a leader, it is not enough, and we can become leaders and bring Europe with us on this. So that work is in full swing. However, it is European regulations that apply, and we must try to find a solution to that. As far as the Energy Commission is concerned, there is an FFF investigation on the basis of which the previous government produced a basis. That is why that question is not being investigated again. In the conclusions, all energy use will then have to be included, and we also agree on that.
i-1c5b270610113148-938	Mr President, I would like to I also experience and hear from the industry that there is still quite a lot that one might not fully agree on and that one would need to have a collection around. Quota obligations have been a matter on which agreement has been reached, but from what I see from the government side, there is now some uncertainty as to how we actually approach this. Perhaps it would have been good to have a common platform on how to work forward on these issues. We are absolutely on the same side when it comes to moving forward to a fossil-independent vehicle fleet, but there must also be leadership on this issue. As I said, it's missing. The Center Party has decided that we want a long-term, climate-neutral and ambitious quota obligation, and my question is how the Social Democrats view this issue.
i-1c5b270610113148-940	Mr President, I would like to It is and has been complicated. The previous government, to which the Member's party belonged, has tried. First they tried in a bill that they tried to adjust twice, and then there finally came a fourth bill that they had to withdraw. It was precisely because it was not possible to do this on the basis of EU rules. Then it is a matter of obligation. So you have produced four proposals, all to promote biofuels, but that has not succeeded. I think that was a good aim, and the government has a good purpose in bringing out what will last over time and in the long run. Precisely because you have not been able to find a system that is technically valid, it is more important now that it actually works than that it is urgent and should be done within six months.
i-1c5b270610113148-942	Mr President, I would like to We are here today to debate the report on the authorisation of installations for biofuels, and I would like to begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved and for all reservations to be rejected. Right now, one of the most important meetings of our time, COP 21, is going on down in Paris. The climate challenge is our destiny. We need to switch our society and move from fossil fuels and fuels to renewables. I do not think it has escaped anyone that this government is serious about it. We want to get there quickly and in a good way, and we have said that we will become one of the world's first fossil-free welfare countries. To get there, it must be easy to do the right thing. As part of this, the government is working to ensure that there is a price difference. It should be cheaper and easier to refuel renewable and run on electricity, and it should be more expensive to refuel fossil petrol and diesel because it is bad for the climate. This is the guiding effect of environmental taxes, and that is what we are trying to work for. Unfortunately, there are a lot of obstacles to implementing this, and that is why we are standing here today. The EU's state aid rules make a mess of it when it comes to biofuels. It was experienced by the former bourgeois government, and this government has now inherited and is threshing its way through. The government has tried to make long-term rules of the game and is working very hard for this. As early as February this year, the government applied for an extension of the state aid approval of the tax exemption for biofuels. As a result of the delay in receiving the information, the Government has continuously tried to conduct discussions and speed up the process. To really show that we are serious about this and other state aid rules relating to biofuels and energy taxes on renewables, a letter was sent to the Commission in October, signed by three ministers. They write: Please, you have to see to the situation of Sv erige and how it is! So the work is going on. Then it goes a little slow, unfortunately, but I think it depends on the recipient. I hope that we really get along with this and get the long-term rules that I think we all want in here. However, while the government is negotiating with the EU to bring about the long-term rules, we must ensure that it works for the companies already on the market. Today's report and the proposal are part of this. It is not the final solution, but it is part of the effort to achieve long-term solutions. I hope we succeed. Until then, we have to fix the situation, and then this is part of it.
i-1c5b270610113148-950	Mr President, I would like to As several have mentioned, the COP 21 climate summit in Paris is in full swing. I think we in here understand the importance of making good decisions down there. Preventing global warming from crossing a border where it becomes uncontrolled and directly dangerous is an issue that should overshadow everything else. Even if it sounds tedious, the climate issue is the destiny of our time. If we are to get somewhere, we can not only rely on good meetings or decisions at summits like that in Paris, but ultimately it is what we do here at home that determines. Today we are debating the emissions of the transport sector and how we can ensure that we reduce emissions with biofuels. Overall, we must reduce our transport by cars, lorries and so on. However, biofuels are crucial for reducing emissions from the transport sector. Ethanol reduces emissions by half, RME as well. Swedish biogas reduces emissions by as much as 75 percent, and we drive our vehicles on electricity that is produced in a renewable way, the emissions will be zero. The Government's proposal is to ensure that biofuels do not compete with food production. I think it is reasonable for us to make demands on biofuels. This is something that we stimulate through political decisions such as tax exemption decisions. Then we also have the right to make demands. However, the demands that the EU is making now are completely disproportionate. The EU claims that we should no longer be allowed to subsidise biofuels through tax exemptions. The EU claims that it is to be regarded as state aid, and according to the bureaucrats of the European Commission, state aid is apparently one of the worst things there is. The fact that the EU itself is subsidising meat, milk, fisheries, fossil energy sources and a lot of other things is clearly in order, at least according to the Brussels bureaucrats. In this report, if I understand correctly, the bourgeois parties want Sweden to promote changes at European level so that we can continue to support biofuels. I couldn't agree more. But I have not really understood the great difference between the reservation of the bourgeois parties and that which the government is already running. There is also another thing that we should be discussing, and that is that we should fundamentally re-establish the EU's state aid rules. We should have clear criteria so that the Member States can always take precedence over the environment – yes, also in other important policy areas for that matter, because that is really needed. One day, Europe is saying that we should combat climate change, that we should reduce emissions and promote renewable energy. What happens when Member States try to do just that? The next day, the European Commission will decide on another environmental restriction. There is a word for this. It spells market fundamentalism. Market fundamentalism can be defined as giving priority to free competition and business investment. Unfortunately, it is this dogma of market fundamentalism that is running Europe at the moment. That we in Sweden should not be able to stimulate biofuels in the way we wish is just one of many examples of how the market is superior to everything else at European level. Let me give you a few examples: Europe is preventing us from introducing a system of net charging for small-scale renewable energy. This is clearly contrary to the EU's energy tax directive. We must not reward solar and wind energy by removing the tax on it. No, it is to treat energy producers differently, says the EU. When schools want to buy locally produced food, they almost always run into patrols because of EU regulations. Lower the VAT on organic food. No, forget it. This is clearly contrary to the EU's VAT directive. Or like in this case that we are talking about right now, where the EU has set up a long list of incomprehensible and contradictory criteria for biofuels without regard to local circumstances. I think this is completely unreasonable and disproportionate. We should fight to ensure that the Member States can always take precedence over the environment. At present, the EU is destroying more than it is helping in the environmental field. The market is superior to everything else. As I said, I would like us to be able to combat this in broad agreement. Then we can start by ensuring that we in Sweden can stimulate biofuels in the way we want. After all, the survival of the planet is a little more important than having exactly the same conditions of competition in the 28 Member States of the European Union.
i-UMy72npfosAA9mKyfyytmi	Mr President, I would like to This report deals with government bill 2015/ 16:14, limited tax exemption for dividends and new provisions against tax evasion in relation to coupon tax, as well as a follow-up motion by the Swedish Democrats. I would ask you to endorse the Swedish Democrats' reservation in the report. The Government's proposal includes laws on amendments to the Tax Exemption Act, the Tax Real Estate Act and the Income Tax Act. The Swedish Democrats are in favour of the Government's ambition. What we question is the government's proposal for the tax exemption for dividends on shares – that tax exemption should not be granted for dividends on shares if it is given by a foreign company to the extent that the dividends may be deducted as interest or similar in the company making the dividends. The main reason for our questioning is simply the comments received from the consultation bodies. The Swedish Tax Agency believes that it is impossible to know in advance how all countries classify interest and what is other than interest but can still be deducted. This objection is also shared by the Faculty of Law at Stockholm University and the Association of Finance Companies, which believes that the Riksdag should specify what is meant. Even more clearly, the Swedish Trade and Industry Tax Delegation, the NSD, as well as the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and the Swedish Insurance Associations, all of which believe that the proposal is so flawed that it cannot form the basis for legislation. In addition, work is already under way in this area in the BEPS project, base erosion and profit shifting, which is an attempt to ensure that companies do not exploit loopholes arising from different countries' tax laws and thus erode their tax bases, and to ensure that national legislation to address the problems does not lead to over-taxation. Within this cooperation, investigations are also underway that aim to achieve the same purpose that the government wants to achieve with this bill, which means that we can be forced to change legislation again in the fairly near future. Both the Swedish Venture Capital Association and the Swedish Enterprise Tax Delegation believe that frequent changes to Swedish tax legislation should be avoided, as industry demands stable legislation and predictable rules and the willingness to invest in Sweden can thus be adversely affected. The whole bill was originally rather stingingly criticized by the referral bodies. Most of the criticism has been taken on board, but not just on this point. D is out of my motion, Mr President.
i-1c5b270610113148-975	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal in the report to be approved and for the motion to be rejected. This case concerns the so-called coupon tax, the tax that residents abroad must pay on profits and dividends from Sweden. It is a tax equivalent to that which you would have had to pay on the corresponding property income if you were living in Sweden. This tax gives the Swedish State approximately SEK 4 billion in income. This may seem a bit considering that the total tax revenue in Sweden is estimated at 952 billion. But it can also be perceived as a lot, given that the universities where I live receive barely 1 billion in grants. Coupon tax revenues also correspond to approximately 3.8 billion people's education. The coupon tax shows little how important it is to have uniform taxation on broad tax bases in order to cope with future investments and welfare. Mr President, I would like to The proposal aims to reduce the possibility of tax evasion. The Government proposes that a distribution of profits from a foreign company should be subject to taxation to the extent that dividends may be deducted in the company that makes the distribution. Furthermore, it is proposed to explicitly regulate that the tax avoidance rule of the Coupon Tax Act, the so-called ‘bulvan rule', can also be applied where, under certain conditions, the recipient of dividends is exempt from tax. A front is thus a person who is hired to appear to be the principal, owner and taxpayer. The proposal has its background in new EU directives from 2011. In 2013, a special investigator investigated how to also give advance rulings on the coupon tax. This is also proposed in the bill. There is broad agreement in committee on the proposal with one exception, the Swedish Democrats. The Swedish Democrats, as we all know, are the party for disorder in parliament. It is a party that is running away from its own promises to the electorate and is instead throwing itself around the neck of other parties' proposals. It just does it to make a mess. One such proposal is the pensioner's tax. Now, apparently, the mission is instead to exercise everything to appear to be the great opposition party, even if the objections are both pushing and artificial. As a matter of fact, SD has nothing to do with this matter. The SD wishes to reject one of three claims in the bill, which is about amending the Income Tax Act, because they feel that the concept of interest has not been properly defined. One might wonder how difficult this can be done. If you are like the Swedish Democrats and quite unwilling to fight tax evasion, it is a difficult issue. In conclusion, the starting point of this proposal is a revised EU directive. In addition, work has been going on in the EU for a long time to coordinate rules on the taxation of cross-border transactions. The matter has been prepared by both the former bourgeois government and the present co-operation government. Most of the views of the consultation bodies have been taken into account in the preparation. The Tax Committee is largely unanimous, except for those who want to play playhouse in the Riksdag. Mr President, I would like to Once again, I support the committee's proposal.
i-9Yo5MyLoismurm1J5TCk2e	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the committee's proposal for a decision in paragraph 1 and for our reservation in paragraph 2 of the committee's report SkU9 A global standard for automatic exchange of financial account information. Mr President, I would like to In the rapid process of globalisation, various players are looking for the most favourable conditions for their financial investments. Assets are being spread around the world and moved between countries at an accelerated pace to where they produce the best returns or generate the lowest taxes. It has implications for employment, economics and technological development. It also has an impact on the way in which taxes are charged. This has gradually led to visible effects on the tax base in different countries, which in turn has made tax-driven investment strategies increasingly interesting to their tax authorities. In recent decades, we have seen increased international activity between countries with the establishment of tax treaties, information exchange agreements and other activities, including with a view to tackling these problems. The United States has been one of the most pro-active players there. Among other things, it has resulted in demands from the United States against other countries' financial operators to provide information on US citizens' financial assets abroad. It resulted in the so-called Fatca agreement, with subsequent legislation regulating how such information is to be delivered to the US Tax Administration. The agreement was designed so that no country that wants their financial operators to be able to operate in the US could avoid signing the agreement and implementing it as a law in their respective countries. This also applies to Sweden, which adopted the law in February 2015. The OECD has, partly in parallel with the US development of Fatca, worked on a general standard for global financial account information exchange called CRS – Common Reporting Standard. It is this and some other relevant standards as well as an EU Treaty that Member States should implement it as the basis for the legislative proposal we now have to consider. Mr President, I would like to The aim of an international automatic exchange of information on financial accounts is basically a very good thing. We will do what we can to create fair taxation so that all Swedish citizens have the same conditions as possible. It is therefore also important that we provide similar information to other countries about their citizens with financial accounts in Sweden. On the other hand, we must also ensure that the information systems needed are designed in such a way that there is a reasonable administrative burden on the financial institutions involved and so that the exchange becomes relevant from a factual point of view. If we do not succeed in doing so, we run the risk of trying to circumvent the legislation, and at least the aim is not met. This type of automatic exchange of information involves a large amount of bureaucracy that places great demands on both the financial institutions that are to provide information and the Tax Agency that are to collect data and transport it to their bilateral counterparts. For the largest financial institutions, the new legislation is unlikely to involve such a great deal of interference as it has already adapted to US Fatca legislation. For small financial institutions, on the other hand, the situation may be much more problematic, as has also been shown in a number of referrals. Mr President, I would like to Like many consultation bodies who are concerned about the impact of this legislative proposal, we can see risks from the increased administrative burden the proposal imposes primarily on small financial institutions. It is also not entirely clear what impact the proposals will have, as has also been pointed out by the consultation bodies. There is therefore a need for an enhanced needs analysis that can contribute to significant improvements in the quality of information in the exchange system. This is in itself an important factor in ensuring that the work carried out by information providers and recipients on the exchange will provide optimal benefits for work done and costs incurred. Several consultation bodies that have responded to the proposal express concern that so much information will circulate between different states and Sweden that the Swedish Tax Agency will find it difficult to handle and evaluate the information that comes in. To put it simply, you can describe it in such a way that you fear that there will be large amounts of information that will never be used for the intended purpose and that it will not be relevant to send it. To sum up, it is important that a balanced exchange of information on financial assets on internationally placed accounts is carried out with the good aim of ensuring that the correct collection of taxes can take place in the right country. At the same time, we must ensure that financial institutions are not burdened with more administrative requirements than are relevant. It is therefore necessary to monitor and evaluate the benefits of the legislation that is now being introduced in relation to the impact on smaller institutions as well as the Swedish Tax Agency and external recipients of the information. That is why, Mr President, through our reservation, we are asking the government to follow up the law on the basis of this description of problems and, if necessary, to take the relevant measures to correct any shortcomings. I am honestly surprised that all the other parties are so uninterested in ensuring that the laws we pass here in the Swedish Parliament are just relevant and proportionate. I am particularly surprised that the alliance parties do not support our proposals in this spirit, that is to say, to create the maximum benefit for the resources deployed.
i-1c5b270610113148-1000	Mr President, I would like to The proposal on the table here is the approval of a multilateral agreement on automatic exchange of information on the basis of the global standard drawn up by the OECD, which is partly a further development of the Fatca agreement that we approved in this House almost a year ago. It also contains some proposals for legislative changes in order for it to be implemented. I shall begin by supporting the committee's proposals in the report. Mr President, I would like to I think it is important to put the questions in context. This is part of the work that has been done within the OECD in recent years to address the problems of international tax evasion and tax evasion – BEPS, base erosion and profit shifting. The BEPS report, which was completed in September, contains various parts. Combating tax evasion and aggressive tax planning is complex. But an important part is precisely the exchange of information between tax authorities in the different countries. For several years now, various bilateral information exchange agreements have been concluded with so-called tax havens, and we have seen that it has had an effect. But now a global standard has been developed for automatic exchange of information. It is an important step, which together with other elements of the BEPS Action Plan, which will be implemented in the coming time, will make a difference. It is important for our interest to safeguard tax bases, to finance welfare, for developing countries' opportunities for tax collection and for competitiveness neutrality and fair conditions for companies operating across borders. Mr President, I would like to There is broad agreement in Parliament on these issues. But it is worth noting that there is a party that differs a little – the Swedish Democrats. They have very few objections in substance, as we have just heard. But these are still small markings, and not just here today. We have also seen it in the past, particularly in matters relating to tax evasion. Nevertheless, it is interesting to know how much energy this party spends on blacking out and demonising refugees as threats to our society and to our welfare. But it is only when it comes to people who are perceived as different and who seek protection here from war and oppression. It's never, never when it's about tax evasion. I am not surprised, Mr President, but I find it repugnant.
i-1c5b270610113148-1006	Mr President, I would like to I thought the debate was about the exchange of information on financial accounts. I can only say that the protests of the Social Democrats on other issues in this context are rather pathetic. I would like to take three examples of comments on the bill that have come into the context of precisely the exchange of information on financial accounts. For example, the Association of Finance Companies, the Swedish Bankers' Association, Svensk Försäkring and the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, has a number of views from different perspectives that the legislation places a disproportionate burden on smaller financial institutions and that it will create requirements to deliver data that is not useful and relevant. Then I wonder: What do the Social Democrats think about this? Is that good? Is it good that our financial institutions should be affected by administrative measures that are disproportionate and partially irrelevant? I do not think so, but apparently the Social Democrats think so. Some other consultation bodies, the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority, the Swedish Tax Agency and several business organisations, such as those I mentioned, also feel that there are significant ambiguities in the definitions underlying the legislative proposals. In this respect, we have not sufficiently penetrated the conditions for creating the correct information, and that is the very reason why we are risking the things I mentioned in the first point. Obviously, the Social Democrats have not understood this. Have you read this at all?
i-1c5b270610113148-1010	Mr President, I would like to A natural part of legislative processes is, on the one hand, to have dialogue with stakeholders and, on the other hand, to evaluate and monitor the impact of legislation on the ground. It's a matter of course, I think. With regard to what we have both mentioned, namely the Fatca agreement, which we approved in this House almost a year ago, and we have had a continuous dialogue with the parties concerned. We will of course monitor the effects of the legislation and implementation of the agreement, especially in the light of the fact that what is to be implemented is not only this but many other elements that are also included in the BEPS Action Plan. It is quite a lot of work that we in the Committee on Taxation and in this House will devote quite a lot of time and energy to the coming years. It is perfectly natural then to follow up the legislation that has been decided on also in dialogue with the parties concerned. I think that is a natural thing for us as legislators to do.
i-1c5b270610113148-1013	Mr President, I would like to Then it becomes even weirder that you say no to tell the government that you should do a proper update. There are so many and competent demands for it to be done, and there are competent investigations of what the problems are. I don't understand how you start to get carried away with a lot of other things when we talk about stuff like this. We will make it clear to the government how to deal with the after-work of legislation that will have as extensive an impact as it will have. You have to see the problems that exist, but that is not enough; you have to react as well. But the Social Democrats are still in the boat. You can see the problems, but you don't care about them. It's really boring, I think. You have to react and set guidelines on how to solve the problems you see. BEPS is a principle for a variety of activities with the explanation that Sara Karlsson had from the beginning. It is not a BEPS agreement that we are going to legislate on now, but the effects of BEPS are the basis for this. Why do the Social Democrats not formally want to do what you now say afterwards that you want to do instead of criticising us for a lot of other things?
i-1c5b270610113148-1018	Mr President, I would like to It's a little hard to decipher what Olle Felten wanted answers to. As I said, it is a natural part of the legislative work to monitor the impact of various legislative changes. This is an effect of BEPS work, which is a work that we will put a great deal of effort and time and energy into in the Committee on Taxation and the House in the near future. Then we will also be able to monitor and evaluate this. It is an obvious part of the political work and nothing that needs to be pointed out in a motion from the Swedish Democrats. That is why we have not chosen to support it. We are following up legislation that we are deciding on here. It's no stranger than that. Therefore, it is also a strange mark from the Swedish Democrats that makes you think about what priorities you are making. So that's what Olle Felten said I was delirious about here. Precisely when it comes to issues of tax evasion, we have seen a trend in Sweden's democrats making small marks. We do not really want to be involved in the fight against tax evasion, unlike the great power and energy that this party is putting into fighting people who are fleeing.
i-1c5b270610113148-1023	Mr President, I would like to This debate deals with Category 19 under the heading "Regional growth". We Moderates have in this area no proposal for a distribution of funds other than the government. On the other hand, we have a specific opinion and will refrain from taking part in the decision on the money. The content of the area of regional growth policy differs from that of the government. Regional growth policies cover more areas than those financed under this expenditure area such as labour market, infrastructure and industrial policy. This, in turn, makes it more complex to look at how different measures have an effect individually or in combination, and measures can be both cyclical and structural. There are a number of indications that are heading for better follow-up, and these are now taking on a broad range of parties to follow up. I would now like to say something about the moderate motion for regional growth and our alternative for Sweden. We take our starting point in the green industries as a growth engine and a continued constructive work within the rural development programme that makes it easier for people to live and work in rural areas while maintaining and developing local services. Tourism, the previous investment in Matlandet Sweden and Attractive Sweden are all parts that contribute to a more vibrant and vital countryside. All of Sweden will live. A prerequisite for this is that people can live and work both in cities and in urban and rural areas. We want to give people and businesses all over the country opportunities to grow and develop. I'm sure we all remember the sandwich death that symbolized a countryside that felt evasive and forgotten. That's not good enough. The focus of regional policy must therefore be to ensure that the level of service can be maintained in rural areas through, inter alia, investment in infrastructure, IT and broadband deployment. It shall be possible to operate companies and businesses throughout the country. Our goal is an entrepreneurial climate that is dynamic and innovative throughout the country, in big cities as well as in rural areas and everything in between. Innovations, entrepreneurship and innovation should be encouraged and not suppressed. Sweden is a fantastic innovation country, but it requires that ideas are taken into account, that small businesses have the opportunity to grow and develop, that good business ideas gain ground and not least that the potential of women starting and running growing companies is taken advantage of, just as we want to increase entrepreneurship in total. Our starting point is also that in the future people will need and want to buy far more services and that this is increasing as society changes. There is great potential for large cities to grow more and for cities, urban areas and rural areas to follow, not at the expense of someone else but side by side. Sweden needs everyone. The government's proposal to increase taxes on jobs, entrepreneurship and transport is a worrying blow right in the heart of Swedish rural areas and regional growth. Increased taxation on petrol and diesel leads to a deterioration in the conditions for those living in the country and depend on the car to get to work and school. Public transport is rarely a realistic option for people living and working in rural areas, but is often referred to as a car, which means that improved conditions and well-functioning infrastructure are needed instead of new taxes and charges. Ultimately, infrastructure is about people having a working day and companies being able to deliver or get goods transported to them. The ability of regions to attract new businesses depends on the existence of efficient transport and communications. For individual companies, good infrastructure can lead to lower costs and thus increase productivity and profitability. This will strengthen the company's competitiveness and make it possible to reach new markets and new customers. We are concerned about the future of aviation. Bromma airport is threatened by this government. At the same time, the Swedish Green Party continues to push for a new aviation tax that hits both Swedish passengers and Swedish flights directly and has an impact on regional growth. The Swedish Parliament's investigation service has shown in a calculation that a flight tax risks leading to a reduction in the number of domestic travellers of up to 1.2 million people. Air tax variations have previously been introduced in Denmark, the Netherlands and Ireland, but all these countries have since abolished it because of its extremely negative impact on the economy. It is not only passengers who are affected by a flight tax, but it also risks leading to fewer jobs. The International Air Transport Association has estimated that the introduction of air tax in Sweden threatens at least 10 000 jobs in the aviation industry, airports and in the hotel and restaurant industry. Why insist on pursuing this harmful proposal? It harms growth, reduces employment and belongs in the trash. Mr President, I would like to Sweden needs a continued aggressive growth policy that extends across the country and takes advantage of individuals' creative power and innovations. Growth can only be created through the work, knowledge, innovation and entrepreneurship of individuals. Enterprise development, labour supply, education, access to public and commercial services and investment in information technology and infrastructure are all essential elements of a modern regional growth policy. The role of politics is therefore to continue to create the best conditions and contribute the tools to this. We want to see a strong, dynamic and innovative Sweden where politics is for the individual people, entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs.
i-1c5b270610113148-1038	Mr President, I would like to All of Sweden will live. The Swedish democrats are positive about rural opportunities while we are aware of the serious challenges in terms of population and urbanisation. 1.4 million Swedes live and work in rural areas today. These allow for a strong trade balance in, for example, the forest, mining and metal industry. Growing tourism has positive effects on employment and migration. In 2014, tourism's total turnover increased by SEK 13.2 billion, which corresponds to 5.2 per cent. Consumption of foreign visitors increased most by SEK 10.7 billion or as much as 12.5 per cent. The Swedish Democrats believe that the state should have an active role regarding the conditions for regional growth. The Swedish Democrats believe that the creation of sustainable, sustainable and environmentally friendly growth requires technological advances. Different instruments such as regulation, taxes and subsidies can alleviate some short-term problems but are not sustainable long-term solutions. A well-developed and functioning infrastructure is the basis for creating conditions for growth throughout the country. The Swedish Democrats see an increased need for both maintenance and development of the state's transport infrastructure. We want to introduce a market pool that can be used quickly to remove emerging bottlenecks that stand in the way of significant investment in business. The proposal is in line with what the Enterprise Transport Council has highlighted. Mr President, I would like to The cornerstone of our regional policy is the partial relocation of state jobs from major cities to rural areas, the creation of new authorities and rural works, and the continued relocation of state jobs from rural to urban areas. With current technological developments, there are good opportunities to place state jobs outside big cities, and there are no acceptable infrastructure reasons to refer to to centralising government jobs to big cities. However, this relocation is a long-term objective. If it happens at too fast a pace, it poses economic, social, logistical and organisational problems. So relocations should be done with caution, as a complement to the start-ups that are mainly to take place in rural areas. A prerequisite for living rural areas is good access to public services. For a long time, a vicious spiral has led to the withdrawal of public services from rural areas as a result of a reduced population base. The Swedish Democrats are concerned about this development and want to strengthen public services through collaboration, to maintain and develop public services. The need for broadband is becoming increasingly important today, both for the business community and for the individual citizen. The ambition that exists today that 90 per cent of Sweden's households should have access to high-speed broadband by 2020 is not sufficient. It is noted that rural areas are likely to be significantly over-represented among the remaining 10%. In some cases, fibre-drawing cannot be defended economically, but leaving out as much as 10 per cent of Sweden's households is too low a target. The Swedish Democrats want to raise the level of ambition and therefore see a need for a new broadband strategy. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish National Audit Office's 2014 review of the state's venture capital supply to private companies showed that it has not been sufficiently focused on increasing the supply of early stage venture capital. The review shows that more than 40% is invested in stages where private operators are already active and in companies that have been more advanced in development. The Swedish National Audit makes the assessment that it is difficult to stimulate early stage investments by co-investing with private actors. They also point out that capital is often targeted at certain sectors. We want a review of the way in which state venture capital funds are used, and we see that they are better used for regional growth policies. The Swedish Democrats want to stimulate and contribute to the growth of the mining industry in several ways. Sweden has abundant presences of minerals. We regard this as basically the assets of the Swedish people. We also see it as reasonable that the value of the assets should benefit the citizens. For this reason, we want to reform and increase mineralisation. The state's share should subsequently be earmarked in a fund, the aim of which is to stimulate development and employment in rural areas. We also see that the need for matching and investments in training related to the mining industry is great. This applies both to longer engineering courses and KY-trainings to, for example, machine operators. We also look over time at the need for more resources to be allocated to targeted geoscientific basic research.
i-1c5b270610113148-1050	Mr President, I would like to The Center Party wants to create the world's most modern countryside and the world's greenest cities. For us, there is no conflict between urban and rural areas. Everyone should be able to live and realize their dreams, no matter where they live in the country. The basis is to have equal opportunities to settle, work and run businesses. Equal opportunities also mean access to good mobile telephony and broadband, but also access to fuels, food, public services, communications, infrastructure and culture. Equivalent opportunities throughout the country do not automatically imply uniformity. The same challenge can be solved in different ways in different parts of the country. We are simply talking about a local policy, in which decisions are made as close to people as possible. It stimulates such a development. I and the Center Party want Sweden to be an example in the environmental field, that through concrete instruments we will show that economic growth, innovation and entrepreneurship go hand in hand with reduced emissions and toxins – a society in ecological balance. Over the years of the alliance government, the foundations of stable state finances were laid. Over 340 000 new jobs were created, while the green transition accelerated. With more people in work, tax revenues for the public sector increase, where municipalities themselves can give priority to school, health care and long-term care. Important steps were taken to give people more money in their wallet, their own money that they themselves worked together and can decide how to use it. When the now seven-year international financial crisis is finally over, Sweden must take the next step to continue to create maximum jobs, not least due to the current refugee situation but also to stimulate global recovery. Unfortunately, the Swedish Government is heading in the opposite direction. Large tax increases on jobs and transport risk breaking the recovery and will hit tens of thousands of jobs, not least in Small-town Sweden. Urbanisation in Sweden splits the country. Since the 1960s, it has been moving faster and faster. People are worried about their jobs, about their companies, about their children's growing up environment and about the safety of their age. If it is to be possible to live, work and live in our country, we need a policy that sees Sweden's full potential. It is therefore important that we pay attention to the rapid change that is taking place in our country right now. Also in smaller towns near major cities and in the outlying areas of large cities, there are neighbourhoods with needs that are in many ways similar to those found in rural areas. There is a need for more jobs, better service and more security. Centralisation in Sweden continues at an accelerated pace. Let me give you some recent examples: The Employment Service announces that they want to close 100 local offices. This represents about one third of their 320 existing offices.
i-1c5b270610113148-1061	The Swedish Transport Administration plans to reduce from eight management centres to four and therefore closes down in Boden, Ånge, Hallsberg and Norrköping. Stockholm, Gothenburg, Malmö and the far north of Gävle remain. When the Swedish National Agency for Higher Education awarded courses starting in autumn 2015, 50 per cent went to the metropolitan areas of Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö, of which 30 per cent went to Stockholm.
i-1c5b270610113148-1063	In many places it is not even possible to get the daily newspaper distributed on Saturdays anymore, due to the change in the distribution of the mail. The government wants to introduce free entry into the state museums. Of 20 state museums, only Gothenburg, Malmö and Karlskrona have state museums that are relevant for free admission. This autumn, the Swedish Tax Agency has closed its offices, and nine more offices are on the way to closure. The activities of the police are centralised to a limited number of locations. Police stations are closing. The presence of Försäkringskassan has long been limited to larger cities.
i-1c5b270610113148-1067	Researcher n and cultural geographer John Östh at Uppsala University states in a comparative study that government jobs are centralised at a much faster rate than both private jobs and people's migration flows. It is not, therefore, an adjustment, as it is sometimes argued, but the state is one of the driving forces behind the long-term depopulation. The state authorities are not in step with the ambitions of politics. Government and parliament have clearly stated that they want the agencies' activities to be decentralised, but this is ignored. Then we can ask ourselves whether we have released the Directors-General too far when the state's departure from Swedish countryside, from Småorssverige, is accelerating. Finally, in the Center Party's motion 2015/ 16:2369, we present a large number of proposals to the Riksdag in several different policy areas, all of which aim to achieve the goal of developing the whole country. These proposals will be prepared during the current Parliamentary Session, and I and the other Centre Party members in the Riksdag will then have the opportunity to return in more detail to the Centre Party's various proposals in order to create increased regional growth throughout the country.
i-1c5b270610113148-1070	Mr President, I would like to Sweden stands strong after eight years of alliance rule. Public finances are in order, employment is growing and we are facing a coming boom. At the same time, the world is characterised by major crises. The security situation in our neighborhood is getting worse every month. We see that wars in Syria and Ukraine create insecurity for both people and future economic development. The costs of sick leave are increasing. Now, even more so than when the budget bill was submitted to the Riksdag, the costs resulting from migration flows are also escalating to Sweden. I and the Liberals stand by to show solidarity in the greatest refugee disaster since the Second World War, which underlines the need to look after public finances. Our budget motion is therefore tight and proposes a lower spending ceiling and higher financial savings than the government's proposal. In most areas of expenditure, costs are lower than those proposed by the government in that we particularly reject large increases in expenditure in the labour market and housing policy. At the same time as environmental taxes are raised, the Liberals create room for a budget that prioritises jobs, knowledge in schools and the defence of Sweden. On 25 November, the Riksdag decided on a framework for the spending areas of the state budget according to the Government's proposal. Sweden is taking a different path from that which the Liberals want to see. Sweden will lose jobs, knowledge and defence skills. The Liberals' draft budget is to be seen as a whole. The majority of spending areas are not in line with the proposed framework advocated by the Liberals. We see a value in holding the budget process together and therefore avoid individual break-outs. I therefore choose not to take part in the decision on the allocation of appropriations under Category 19, but the Liberals have a separate opinion. Mr President, I would like to Globalisation leads to changes that have different impacts in different parts of Sweden. Society changes. Urbanisation is fundamentally based on people's free choice, which I and the Liberals defend. At the same time, there are challenges in differences between cities with a strongly growing private service sector and areas with high vulnerability. There are also local challenges in the form of a few industrial employers. In municipalities where day-to-day notice and depopulation are day-to-day, the consequence is an ageing population and a reduced tax base. I myself grew up in a municipality in Härjedalen that faces such challenges. The starting point for me as a liberal is the protection of people's power over their own situation and the possibility of creating their own future. A liberal rural policy seeks to create the conditions for those who want to live and work in rural areas or in smaller urban areas. The unique conditions that individuals' development power and the competitiveness of companies in different parts of the country must be taken into account. In order to enable rural services, flexible solutions, cooperation between different actors and, in some cases, state aid are needed. Mr President, I would like to Working communications are an important issue for jobs and sustainable growth throughout the country. This calls for continued investment in rail, road and other infrastructure. Liberals make the travel allowance more generous where public transport is less well-developed, and we want to tighten the grant where the possibilities for using public transport are greater. Sweden will have a world-class broadband connection. Rural areas need to be given better IT capacity. The main task of the state should be to create the conditions to remove the obstacles that exist, but also to support where profitability for expansion is poor. In conclusion, Mr President, it is not by increasing taxes on labour and entrepreneurship that Sweden will have stronger regional growth. Instead, our response is based on green tax shifting, combining increased environmental awareness with lower taxes on labour. This is how we help the whole of Sweden to live.
i-1c5b270610113148-1082	Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats' view of regional growth is that regional development policy should aim to contribute to the development of viable regions throughout the country. They are built when people with power and will interact locally in a bottom-up perspective. Fire souls who are passionate about an idea can mean so much to a district's development. The Christian Democrats want to give these people and enthusiasts the tools so that these ideas can be realized. The Christian Democrats' regional policy aims to ensure that people, regardless of where they have chosen to live in the country, can take part in society's fundamental social rights and are given reasonable opportunities to support themselves and develop their environment. The general efforts at national level for jobs, training, infrastructure and improved business environment therefore need to be combined with regional growth efforts. Mr President, I would like to As we all know very well, business is the basis of prosperity. The business community must be given extra opportunities to operate in smaller towns. It cannot be the case that family businesses and small and medium-sized enterprises should not be at the heart of enterprise policy. On the contrary, it is necessary to support these very companies because they are often the backbone of local businesses, especially in smaller towns. It is also where new jobs can be created. I was happy when I saw the news the other day. Then a good news was presented – perhaps it came by mistake. It showed a story from a locality somewhere in Norrland where refugees who have arrived there have started the local rung with the small town's convenience store – as we in the big city had called it. The country trade is called most of it outside the big towns. No matter what we call it, we shall see the people who today come to Sweden as an asset, not least for regional growth. If it can speed up the shop in the district, you can eventually get the gas station back. In this way you get several service points started. That would be fantastic. We are currently in a unique position with the conditions for Sweden to boost regional growth, even in the small regions. To ensure that current entrepreneurship does not only survive, vital elements need to work if companies are to be developed. It concerns communications, security, service, leisure time and everything else that creates a living area. In this respect, one might wonder how the government parties think. We know that an important part of boosting entrepreneurship is women's initiative. Many women who come to Sweden have experience of operating in their home country, perhaps on a small scale, and have managed to support themselves and their family. What conditions do we give them when the government announced a reduction in the opportunities offered by Winnet? Winnet is a national but also regional non-profit effort and has done much to spread gender equality in regional growth. The Sweco evaluation states that it should be seen as part of a larger whole where several initiatives at different levels of society complement each other in order to contribute to equal and regional growth. It has made contributions to national innovation strategy, and it collaborates with the Swedish Inventors' Association, among other things. Now the government pulls its feet away from them by removing funds. Women are an important key to regional growth, and I think I have a good foothold when I say that. We must see that equality is an important part of growth. I do not think that any self-respecting region has it inscribed in its plans and policies, but it always says that equality should be promoted in different ways. But the question is how. What do we provide the regions with the means to achieve this? If we do not do so at national level, I do not think that it will continue to be included in its plans at regional level, and that will not happen either. It is an important issue, and I and the Christian Democrats believe that equality should be seen as a fundamental principle in all policy areas. One way to strengthen competitiveness in Sweden is to resume and drive regionalisation. Today we have two large regions, Skåne and Västra Götaland, and we have many very small ones. That in itself creates inequality. I believe that we can have a better interaction with other regions, not least in Europe, in terms of exports and imports of goods and services, if we get a slightly better size of the smaller regions – if they can be merged. SKL cooperates with the EU Regional Committee and thus has this contact. They have at least previously strived for it to be more equal. The Christian Democrats have a policy of regional growth that I am proud and happy about. Here we stress the importance of communications and good infrastructure. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to mention the need for regional airports. It is more or less scandalous that regional airports are not being put in order so that they not only survive but also have peace and quiet and can grow and develop. We need state grants that ensure this in the same way as in the other Nordic countries.
i-1c5b270610113148-1095	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating regional growth, category 19. This is an important area. The Government's objective for regional growth policy is development power in all parts of the country and with enhanced local and regional competitiveness. The report states that regional growth policy will also contribute to the three priorities of the government: to achieve the overall goal set by the government, that is, to have the lowest unemployment rate in the EU by 2020, to achieve the national environmental objectives and to close the gender equality gap. The Government also presents the objectives for equal regional growth, and the Riksdag has decided on a generational objective and 16 environmental quality targets for sustainable development. The Government's objective for equal regional development is that women and men should have the same conditions to gain influence in regional growth efforts and access to growth resources. In addition, the report sets out the objectives and priorities of the EU for a coherent industrial policy. Cohesion policy is the EU's policy for regional growth and employment with the aim of contributing to economic, social and territorial cohesion within the EU. In the 2014-2020 programming period, the Europe 2020 strategy provides guidance in this area. The strategy is based on three priorities designed to reinforce each other. It is about smart growth, developing an economy based on knowledge and innovation. D is about sustainable growth, promoting a more resource-efficient, greener and more competitive economy. It is about inclusive growth, inclusive growth, stimulating a high-employment economy and social cohesion. Mr President, I would like to In March 2015, an investigation was submitted, Service in rural areas. It was a final report. The report states, among other things, that many shops with low profitability find it difficult to survive in the long term on the market. In order to create the conditions for people and businesses in the areas concerned to continue to have access to a basic level of commercial services, the investigator believes that long-term support should be provided for retail outlets for everyday goods in particularly vulnerable and vulnerable areas in sparsely populated areas. In accordance with the investigation, the Government is investing 35 million, just as the investigation has suggested – the matter is on the table today – which is of course positive. It is also positive that support for the initiative is broad in the Swedish parliament. Mr President, I would like to All of Sweden will live! Many speakers have said this before. We talk about it a lot. Therefore, the government is now working on a new food strategy and making investments in tourism. That is why the Rural Committee has started this autumn and will be presenting an interim report at the beginning of next year. In addition, new industrialisation, which is important for the whole country, and for that matter, the Innovation Council, which is actively trying to make it easier for existing companies and for more companies to start up and become even more viable compared to what it looks like today. More housing is being invested. This is the biggest investment in housing since the start of the million-dollar programme. We are making historically large investments in the infrastructure. It is also important to ensure that we have capital supply. One part of the effort is to reach the EU's lowest unemployment rate by 2020. Mr President, I would like to The right conditions for wanting to develop the local community are that there is faith in the future so that the necessary investments and investments are made. It is important to develop better high-speed connections, which we often talk about, in the form of broadband or fibre. Politics has a responsibility to get these elements in place. The government takes responsibility for the whole of Sweden. I am a little surprised to hear some of the previous speeches, although we are largely in agreement. Something that is important, that the government stands up for and that the government Persson actually launched, is a system of order and order in the state finances. A year ago, when the current government took over, we had a deficit of 75 billion that had to be dealt with, so certainly order is important. It stands for the government. I can guarantee you that. I support the committee's proposal in the report and reject the motions.
i-1c5b270610113148-1106	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mattias Jonsson, for a good speech! Maybe Mattias Jonsson can guess which question to ask now. It is therefore about 2 000 million, which I think it is important to be able to be contentious about, because it is not just any money. I had an interpellation debate with Minister for Enterprise Mikael Damberg on 22 October, where he said that the state venture capital company Inlandsinnovation will cease, as will Fouriertransform, which I believe Mattias Jonsson knows well because he is from the Västra Götaland region. Then he knows how important Fouriertransform is for the car industry and for that matter also for the engineering industry. M an will thus take 2 000 million from Inland Innovation to create a national company. I think that the aim is good, to look at state venture capital. I think it is good to do so, because one must always look at how effectively it can be used. What I have problems with, however, and what the Center Party thinks is deeply unfair, is that you should take money from the most vulnerable parts of Sweden and lay it out over the rest of the country. This part of the country also contributes to a large part of forest, ore, energy and tourism. We export a lot of this, and we know that Sweden is an export-dependent country. To withdraw all this money from these parts of the country does not feel okay. Therefore, my question is: In what way will the removal of Inland innovation and the 2 000 million to promote regional development in Dalarna, Värmland, Gävleborg, Jämtland, Västernorrland, Västerbotten and Norrbotten?
i-1c5b270610113148-1111	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Helena Lindahl, for the question! I thought that this question would certainly come, because I have noticed that there have been some articles from the author of the question in the media about this. I can begin by saying that it is not the case that we are taking decisions today, as the articles say. I am surprised at the level of the debate in the articles. The government parties, the Left Party and the alliance parties, apart from the Center Party, seem to have been sensitive to the criticism that the previous systems, Inland Innovation and Fouriertransform, have received from the National Audit Office. It's been taken seriously. I do not hear such criticism from any other party in this House. It has been said that we should look at a national company. That is absolutely correct. The government will return. Mikael Damberg has said that it should be presented before March, if I do not remember completely wrong. Neither Helena Lindahl nor I can tell you exactly what it will look like today. But from the government there is no ambition that businesses and development in the northern part of the country will be disadvantaged. There is no such entry into this at all. But we must be sensitive to criticism. If we look at how it has worked, we can see that 27% of aid has gone to start-ups and 0.2% to seed farmers. The security of access to new businesses and the development of firms in need has not been particularly favourable. You'd be happy to answer how you see it, Helena.
i-UyqyjoXX9Bdw72ksPArH4d	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mattias Jonsson, for your answer! As far as state venture capital is concerned, the state's own authority – as I have pointed out earlier in this House – says that 80% of all venture capital is spent in the larger cities, including Gothenburg, from which Mattias Jonsson came, Stockholm and Malmö. 50% end up in Stockholm. There was a reason why the money in Inland Innovation came into being at one time. It was because the areas in northern Sweden, Dalarna and Värmland are particularly vulnerable. Then I cannot understand why one has to compare one with the other. We need both seed capital and another type of capital for the next step. For example, if you need 30 million for a company, it is not always easy to go to the bank. So we need a combination of both. The problem remains: why do you take 2 000 million from these vulnerable parts of the country to slip across the rest of Sweden? That is not acceptable! Like Mikael Damberg, Mattias Jonsson stands here and says that it is his opinion that this will go well. That's exactly what the Minister for Economic Affairs said. But I've said it before: believe can be done in the church. Here in Parliament we make decisions. It is just as if we northerners, warmers and people from Dalarna should be very happy for you taking the whole gingerbread jar, and then you buy a gingerbread back. Although I think you might need the gingerbread jar like this at Christmastime, because you need to be a little nicer when it comes to regional development.
i-1c5b270610113148-1120	Mr President, I would like to Proposals will be made by the Minister for Economic Affairs on the form to be taken by the national company. Helena Lindahl speaks of faith, but she speaks as if she knows. In fact, however, we do not yet know what the proposal will look like. We will have to wait and take the debate then. If we are talking about regional development, I must say that I am somewhat surprised at this kind of debate when I myself am concerned about the Centre Party's budget. Unless I have the wrong figure, some 30 billion less is allocated to investment than the government. It's about the school, where the Center says no to increased teachers' salaries. You say no to older people's efforts. People say no to housing investments. They say no to better conditions for pensioners and so on. When it comes to investments and what is important in order to gain growth, security and confidence in the future, we probably have a slightly different view.
i-1c5b270610113148-1123	Mr President, I would like to Mattias Jonsson's speech started so well, with equality between women and men – this is exactly what I also mentioned as a very important thing in the whole of regional growth – but then it went down pretty quickly. The conditions must be laid for such equality, and I question where the Social Democrats put those efforts somewhere. How is it envisaged to promote female entrepreneurship or other issues relating to opportunities for women to contribute to regional growth? I pointed this out with the decision on Winnet, which is not going to get any money all of a sudden. But my question to Mattias Jonsson is: Are there more non-profit organisations that will not receive support in the future in this government's budget, and how do you do it to meet the gap that becomes of the efforts that have been made in the past? How do you fill that hatch with content like this in Advent times, when we open hatches every day? I wonder, then, whether there are any more pitfalls in this matter, quite simply, in terms of gender equality. It doesn't matter what other efforts we make if we can't see that both women and men need a level playing field from the start to be involved in development and entrepreneurship, contribute to innovation and be inventors. There we need support and help, and I wonder how Mattias Jonsson and the Social Democrats have planned it in the future.
i-QeescNhHWSPhGdLhbLZ1gG	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Penilla Gunther, for the question! First you mention Winnet and the withdrawals. We have not reduced anything on this. It is under the Swedish Agency for Growth and Vinnova how the money is distributed. You'll have to watch that. But it is not the government that has cut back on this. You're welcome to elaborate on this, so maybe I can answer the question better. I agree with a lot of you in your speech. It is extremely important that we have more women in the labour market and more women who dare to start businesses. That is why we now have the world's first feminist government. The government has, among other things, got in place a strengthening of parental insurance for a more even withdrawal, which Penilla Gunther and the Christian Democrats do not stand for. Instead, they defend the custody allowance, which we remove. The care allowance has not, I dare say, favoured the possibility for women to enter the labour market or to start a business. You'll have to develop this very much, Penilla Gunther, so that I understand how it goes together.
i-1c5b270610113148-1128	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much, Mattias Jonsson, for the question of the custody allowance! I'd be happy to develop that. We Christian Democrats see a great value in allowing people to choose for themselves what they want to do with their parental leave and how they want to set it up. We don't want to control the parents: Now Dad should be home, now Mom should be home or whatever family constellation is. Because it can look very different. If they choose to stay home for a few months extra with their child and use a custody allowance, I don't see any problem with that. Then they have agreed and actually chosen that model. But what Mattias Jonsson is doing here is trying to get me away from the basic issue and this about gender equality in regional growth. If a government party itself does not have contact with its departments and knows what is happening on the matter, it is I, who is from an opposition party, who knows more, it is interesting to get information. It is known that funds will be drawn from the very non-profit organisation Winnet. My question then remains: are there any other organisations where it will be withdrawn? What effect will it have in the future? We have a number of EWCs that are located under the Swedish Agency for Growth, as Jonsson says. I don't have any further information at the moment, but it's worth checking out. Otherwise, we will further reduce the opportunities for both women and men to start and continue to develop their businesses. The questions remain, Mr President.
i-1c5b270610113148-1131	Mr President, I would like to If you look at our budget, Penilla Gunther, you do not see cuts in the way you claim here: that it comes from the departments or from the government. In this case, it is during changes and redeployment of funds in relation to the Swedish Agency for Growth. We'll have to look at that. But if you look at our budget, you don't see that kind of downsizing. That is what we are debating. When it comes to how the works do, then we should go in and look at the distribution. Of course, we should pursue a policy that strengthens the role of women in the labour market. I do not want to get away from the question, but I think it is very central how we conduct politics and what systems we have. Do we stimulate and create systems so that there is a more even withdrawal in parental insurance, or do we have a system where there are lock-in effects? I am thinking precisely of the proposal on custody allowance that you received during the last parliamentary term. Just look at the statistics and what effect it gave. That is precisely why we are making that change. It is a step in the way of getting more women into the labour market. It is a question of giving them the opportunity to start more businesses. I think that is exactly in line with what you are actually saying in your speech. That policy is for us and makes a reality of it.
i-1c5b270610113148-1134	Mr President, I would like to Mattias said there are many similarities. That's it. However, I will stick to one of the differences, at least as I understand it so far. The whole country will live. Some of this is about airports, regional airports. It is a hub in Bromma that allows you to get between towns, to and from the countryside and into Stockholm. It is about entrepreneurship and a growing Stockholm with potential conditions. And companies in the country are connected to this. I am also thinking of sustainability. We have a government that claims to be involved in innovation. For me, part of innovation is technology development. Then I would like to ask Mattias a question. For me, it's not about stopping a development, it's about doing something smart with it. We heard here about smart regional growth. I'd like to know what the idea is. The Parliament has said, however, that it does not want to see that an investigation is being carried out. Then a person is appointed to investigate the closure of Bromma. At the same time, there are proposals on airline tax, which also make it difficult for those who are going to travel. It is about entrepreneurship, jobs, etcetera, which affects the goals that the government has.
i-1c5b270610113148-1138	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson, for the question! I'm not exactly sure what the question was. But if I got it right, it was about how innovation and Bromma are connected. Of course, we from the Social Democrats think it is important that we have good communications. It goes without saying that the government is working on it. We need to reinforce communications with both trains and roads. According to reports, the forest industry loses 1 billion a year because the roads are in decline. There are examples of this. At the same time, we need to build more housing in the city we are in right now, Stockholm. We have an airport that is quite central. The government has appointed a negotiator to look at what opportunities there are. At the same time, it is said that it must not mean less communication between parts of the country and Stockholm. I think that mission is quite clear. But you're welcome to clarify your question. Then maybe I can answer a little more in detail.
i-1c5b270610113148-1141	Mr President, I would like to Yes, my questions are concrete. Now Mattias says that we should not have worse communications, but Bromma is affected by different interests. That's where it is. Does the government intend to close Bromma? That is one question. The second question concerns the air tax. Do you want air tax, or can you think that aviation is also part of the infrastructure in Sweden, where we look at technical solutions? It is about finding better fuels and reducing emissions. Smart solutions will be found for aviation. Is aviation part of government policy in the future from now on?
i-1c5b270610113148-1142	Mr President, I would like to My opinion, my picture, about aviation is that aviation is part of the government's efforts forward. There is no doubt about that. It is part of the communication, and it will remain. The government's entry into this, which has been debated in this House on several occasions, is that if there are changes in relation to Bromma, there must be no fewer opportunities for communication. That is the basis for a possible change. I think your former party leader at some debate or hearing on the future of Bromma answered: It is not a question for the government, it is a local question to deal with for Stockholm. But it has now become an issue in this House. Of course, it is important out in the country that you can get to Stockholm and from Stockholm and out into the country efficiently and easily. That entry into the discussions is no different. Communications should work well, preferably better.
i-1c5b270610113148-1145	Mr President, I would like to The area of Regional Growth, which we are debating today, covers many different activities that more or less affect everyone who lives in Sweden, both in sparsely populated areas and in urban areas. The Government's goal is development power in all parts of the country with enhanced local and regional competitiveness. Then it is important that we take advantage of and see opportunities to increase cooperation between municipalities, regions and states towards long-term development work. It looks different in the country. Of course, needs are also different. Taking responsibility for rural and rural life is a priority, while there is a need to support and develop the more peri-urban areas, which also have great development potential. It is also important to promote different types of innovation, including in SMEs, but also to develop and strengthen regional research and innovation environments. Here, universities and higher education institutions have an important role to play in development by strengthening cooperation between universities, companies and the surrounding society. Krinova Incubator and Science Park in Kristianstad are an excellent example of this. Here, more than 90 companies have their home with food, environment and health as their starting point. Here the university can be inspired and inspired, business ideas tested and networks built. The proximity to Almi makes a difference to those in the starting pits. It is important that small universities remain in place to strengthen regional self-images, increase opportunities for education and further training in rural areas and catch up with those who can and want to read further but who have limited opportunities to move. Rural regions must not be drained on innovative, creative people. They should be given opportunities for higher education in higher education institutions close to them, something that we give room for in the government's budget. It is also important, from a long-term perspective, to form a strategic work to harness the knowledge and entrepreneurial potential of foreign born people. Within this group there are also great opportunities to develop support for the internationalisation of companies. Having knowledge of another country's corporate culture and mastering the language brings many advantages in relation to other companies that lack that competence. The government is investing heavily in further training and validation opportunities. Investment in infrastructure and information technology means a lot to what opportunities a region has to develop. Everyone depends on a good infrastructure that allows us to move in an environmentally efficient way within the country. This is why the government is investing in strengthening public transport, but it is also investing in an information technology infrastructure that allows us to reach each other wherever we are. Globalisation makes it not always so important where we are, but having a quick connection can be the deciding factor if we can stay and work in sparsely populated areas. In our budget, we have therefore made a major investment in broadband expansion, internet and internet connectivity. Broadband money in the rural development programme will be allocated to expansion in areas where it is not profitable for the market to expand – SEK 1.93 billion in national funds and SEK 1.32 billion in EU funds. The whole of society depends on a functioning internet, especially in sparsely populated areas where it is far from everything. Today we handle banking, we shop, we skate with our friends, and even easier doctor visits can be made online. The libraries have service with e-books that make it easy to borrow a good book remotely. Another initiative of the Rural Development Programme covering the period 2014–2020 is the development of local services. The money will be used to support local services in the form of grocery stores and for projects that develop local services in rural and rural areas. This is an important initiative, because if the local service disappears from a community, there is a great risk that the area will be depopulated. One of the fastest growing sectors in Sweden is the tourism industry, which helps create jobs and new businesses throughout the country. There is a lot to offer here, everything from salty baths to cave walks. Our fantastic nature can offer unique experiences through nature and ecotourism and to try out our food traditions, which differ so from south to north, with accommodation in small hotels out in natural surroundings or in the middle of the city. Implementing restoration of damaged ecosystems and developing ecosystem services will create business opportunities for businesses across the country. Having said that, I support the budget proposal.
i-PtZse9qPs5mFZpasmUsQys	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr Knutsson, for your speech! We can now see how Arbetsförmedlingen is implementing its plan to close 100 local offices. As they currently have a total of 320 offices, this is about a third. One third of the offices are closed while we see a large flow of refugees coming out to the municipalities, where the Public Employment Service has a major role to play. The interesting thing is that, for example, the Public Employment Service announces the closure of offices despite the fact that Ardalan Shekarabi has appointed an investigation and commissioned Statskontoret to report the effects of centralising its operations to fewer and fewer locations. Yet this is happening at the same time. I do not understand how the government can allow the continued closure of state activities while the investigation is in progress to look at the effects of the state leaving the country at an ever-increasing rate. How can the government allow this, Elisabet Knutsson?
i-1c5b270610113148-1160	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking, Helena Lindahl! It's always a problem when things don't turn out exactly as you've imagined right when it's the most important thing. This is a question that we must, of course, look at. The Arbetsförmedlingen has a GD who is head of Arbetsförmedlingen. They have well made their priorities, and the government may have a dialogue with Arbetsförmedlingen through him. It's always easy to look at what others do when you're not in that situation yourself. The center was in the government for eight years, and then they talked a lot about wanting the state to locate a lot of work. But what happened? Even when you were in government, workplaces disappeared from sparsely populated areas. You didn't stop it. We are working intensively to ensure that the people who come to this country have a good arrival. It will of course also be extended at Arbetsförmedlingen over time, as I see it. But right now it's not like that.
i-1c5b270610113148-1164	Mr President, I would like to Elisabet Knutsson is right that this campaign of centralisation has been going on for a long time – ever since the 1960s when the Social Democrats handed out resettlement grants to people who would move from the country into the cities. But it's moving faster and faster, I'd say. I think Elisabet Knutsson took note of my long list in the speaker's chair, and I also believe that Elisabet Knutsson, just as I am concerned and aware that centralisation is now moving at such a fast pace that it is the state that is moving the fastest from the country into the cities, that is, before private companies and before the migration flows of individuals. Since there was massive criticism because more and more government companies were centralizing their operations, you set up an investigation. The problem I wonder about is then: how is it that the government allows it to announce closure during the investigation? If you want, you can work every day to add to regulatory letters. The government therefore does not have to wait until the end of the year before sending a regulatory letter to an authority, but tomorrow the government will be able to choose to make an addition to the regulatory letter and say to the Director-General of the Employment Service, and also to the Director-General of the Swedish Tax Agency for that matter, that this can be stopped in order instead to await the investigation that has been set up and that Statskontoret is now carrying out. I want answers to my questions once again. What will the government do? Will you continue to allow the closure of state activities, even though an investigation is under way?
i-1c5b270610113148-1169	Mr President, I would like to The problem is that what we are discussing today is regional growth policy. What Helena Lindahl is talking about right now is the work area of the Labour Market Committee. I have no detailed knowledge of the matter.
i-1c5b270610113148-1170	Mr President, I would like to I have the same question that I previously asked Mattias Jonsson about Bromma airport. The Green Party has been pushing to close the airport. I would like to know whether Elisabet Knutsson believes that Bromma airport should be closed down.
i-1c5b270610113148-1171	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking. I guess it wasn't unexpected. Bromma airport is a sad child. Having two airports in the same city is not the ultimate. Of course, I understand everyone who is concerned that Bromma airport may not be around. I think about when I lived in Helsingborg with a Central Station and a Ferry Station and the long time it took to investigate whether the ferry station should exist or not. The trains were taxied between the two stations. Anders Sundström has been tasked with reviewing Bromma airport. I think we should give him the time to investigate the matter before we pronounce ourselves categorically whether it should be this or that. At the same time, I would like to say that we need land to build housing on in Stockholm. At least we can agree on that.
i-1c5b270610113148-1174	Mr President, I would like to Elisabet Knutsson referred to Arlanda, the other airport, which we know is not enough for what is needed for there to be a functioning infrastructure for aviation. I would like to know what effects Elisabet Knutsson sees if she now believes that the investigator will come to the conclusion that housing will be built on Bromma and how she intends to take on that solution. I have a few more questions for Elisabet Knutsson – the same as before. Does Elisabet Knutsson see as an environmental party technological innovations and changes as a solution? Is aviation part of the future of the Green Party?
i-1c5b270610113148-1176	Mr President, I would like to Let's look at Arlanda first. Since Arlanda is part of the investigation, I do not think we should anticipate the outcome of the investigation. We let the investigation work on to see if it will find a good way to use Arlanda more efficiently. There are different views on whether Arlanda is enough or not. I don't know anything about that. I really am not an expert on such issues. Let us then look at the question of innovation and whether aircraft will remain. Yes, I'm sure they will, but not for domestic flights. I very much hope for high-speed trains and an expanded infrastructure in the field of public transport. Of course we don't ride a bike to the United States. We need to find new innovative fuels and ways to move forward there. Of course, the flight will still be there. We're not gonna sit at the kitchen table in Solna.
i-1c5b270610113148-1179	Mr President, I would like to Elisabet Knutsson gives some vague answers about the importance of aviation for the infrastructure in Sweden. We can surely say that Sweden is an elongated country with long distances. I do not know if Elisabet Knutsson has been in northernmost Sweden, but by train it takes as long as if we were going down to the edge of Switzerland towards Italy, which I have done many years ago. It was a nice trip, and it got warmer and warmer the further down we came. Here in Sweden it is the opposite. It is of course a concern that there is such uncertainty for regional airports in Sweden. The Green Party cannot escape the fact that Bromma should not be a hub for regional airports. How will traffic be solved at Arlanda Airport? It is an incredibly important point at the moment that regional airports have highlighted as a result of the difficulties in the payment of the operating grant, which I am sure Knutsson has heard of. The Finnish Transport Administration is not doing its part. Regional airports are in an incredibly difficult situation right now. Elisabet Knutsson and I have a common interest, namely the tourism industry. But how will the tourism industry's problems be solved? We can spend millions on destination development if people still don't get there – and from there, perhaps many wish after a while. How are we going to solve the communications when we don't have functioning airports even in the country? I would like an answer to that.
i-1c5b270610113148-1182	Mr President, I would like to The tourism industry has great potential to develop in our country. I'm the first one to think that's fantastically good. The flight is important to those who come far from it, but within the country we may not have to fly. I also think that large aircraft cannot land at our regional airports, but they must surely land at our major airports. From there you can then use other public transport.
i-1c5b270610113148-1183	Mr President, I would like to I am sorry to inform Elisabet Knutsson that regional airports are different in terms of the type of aircraft that can be landed and taken off. It simply depends on the size of the runways. What we can see is that the Green Party, represented here by Elisabet Knutsson, does not really understand the problem for business if regional airports do not work. I live in Trollhättan. It takes 45 – 50 minutes by plane to Bromma. If I'm going on a train, it'll take at least three and a half hours. Many people ride trains, and of course I am happy about that. If you are in an extra hurry, you can see that, for the business community, it is extremely important that you can also fly that route. I don't even want to think about how it will be possible to have a foreign owned company up in northern Sweden unless the manager can travel from Brussels or any other big city in the world to visit his own company. They are then closed down because they are considered to be completely off-limits and because it is considered completely impossible to reach them. How do we solve the problem of infrastructure? We cannot invest money in the tourism industry unless the tourism industry is given sufficient incentives to actually develop locally and regionally. Then the infrastructure – aviation, trains, buses, public transport in each region, broadband and of course also ordinary roads for cars – is incredibly important. The total infrastructure must also work in order for the tourism industry to develop. If the hub is not there, as Bromma is for the regional airports, how do we do it?
i-1c5b270610113148-1188	Mr President, I would like to You in the opposition hang up your entire discussion on Bromma and see it as the only solution. It is possible that this is the case, but we need to investigate it. Air travel needs to take its environmental responsibility – it dirtens a lot in our environment. We also need to think about whether we should use aviation to the extent that we do today. Of course, there is nothing that you and I can sort out in these seats today, Penilla Gunther, but we will get back to you.
i-1c5b270610113148-1190	Mr President, I would like to During the year, a parliamentary rural committee was set up to represent all parties. I myself have been privileged to sit on the Rural Committee, and I believe that its work will lead to a coherent rural policy. The proposal to set up a committee came from us in the Left Party, and I would like to say, after four meetings with the Committee, that in any case my expectations are being met. I also think that the debate we have today points in the direction that all parties in the Swedish Parliament point out that they want the whole of Sweden to live. The Rural Committee will present an important interim report in March next year, to final report in January 2017. I believe that what is most important for rural areas is that we leave behind the thinking of the market and instead of seeing everyone as customers see us as citizens with rights. We also see that the city has become the norm in the debate. It is therefore important for the Rural Committee to raise many stones and thus raise rural issues higher on the political agenda. Something that has shown that the market does not solve everything in rural areas has been and is the tough situation that many rural traders find themselves in. During the year, I myself have had time to visit two country shops. One is run by a multi-artist who, in addition to the country store and petrol, has also bought one of SJ's old train cars, a sleeping car that used to go to Berlin. Today, in these old compartments, a hostel is run despite having to look quite a few miles away for the nearest railway. The second grocery store I have had time to visit during the year is located in northern Värmland and is run by a football club. It has been found out that in order for the football team to live, the district must live. By hiring football players to both play good football and work in the country store, the club has got better spin on the business – both the football and the country store. That is why I am particularly pleased that we are now deciding on the possibility for farmers to receive operating aid. In the budget that we decide on, SEK 35 million is allocated to operating aid for farmers. It will go to the country merchants who offer commercial service in particularly vulnerable sparsely populated areas. Many farmers in sparsely populated and rural areas are particularly important as they also provide a range of other services. Thanks to this support, many strategically important rural traders in particularly vulnerable rural areas, who would otherwise be in danger of having to shut down their activities, will be able to maintain good and important services for citizens. I hope that we will have a good outcome of this money and that it will lead to the adoption of a strategy that will support you and complement where the logic of the market does not work. But commercial service is not just a grocery store. Access to pharmacies and cash is also important in rural areas. When I and my party colleague Karin Rågsjö wrote on Aftonbladet in May this year Debate that the government had to do something to stop previously initiated plans for the privatisation of the pharmacy ombudsmen, Minister Gabriel Wikström was quickly out promising an investigation that would review the bourgeois pharmacy reform. But we haven't seen any investigation. The government's mills are obviously too slow on this issue. The disappearance of cash from rural areas is another important and hot issue. Today I read in the newspaper that Visingsö is without cash even though it has a large and lively tourism and tourism industry. During the year, the Kontant uprising has been heard loudly in the debate. There are a number of organisations with the former governor and chief police officer Björn Eriksson at the head who want us in the parliament and government to take increased responsibility for the big banks being difficult by removing and abolishing cash from society at a terrible rate. Unfortunately, the government doesn't do much. Above all, Minister of Financial Markets Per Bolund is not yet doing anything in this area. It hides behind an investigation with the longest name in the world: the Payment Services Account Directive. I think it is time for the government to stop hiding behind long names and instead take responsibility for the cash in society. This budget also proposes some changes in the way state venture capital is organised. The Industry Committee held an interesting hearing with the state actors this spring. One conclusion you can draw is that these are very many. It is therefore proposed in the budget proposal to merge and reduce the number of actors. I think that's the way to go. On the other hand, the Committee on Economic Affairs needs to continue to monitor the regional perspective so that state risk capital contributes to regional growth throughout Sweden. In the bowl of positive decisions, we can also add the two ongoing investigations into government jobs – and Statskontoret's mission in April to report how government agencies have been collecting changes for a long time, and the mission that becomes a reality with the decision of this budget: that the State Service Centre should propose government functions that could be moved from metropolitan regions to other parts of Sweden. These are important steps, I think, to make the role of the state visible and to highlight the role of the local labour market. With this, Mr President, I support the proposal in the report, which approves the budget negotiated by the Left Party with the Government.
