i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-12	Madam President, I would like Jens Holm has asked me what the government intends to do in the light of the fact that the previously presented climate plans, the INDCs, are not enough to prevent uncontrolled and directly dangerous climate change. I share the view that all the climate plans, the INDC, which have now been submitted by different countries and presented globally, are not enough to achieve the temperature target that we should achieve in order to avoid climate change that has a major negative impact. The strength of the climate plans is largely the turnout. The fact that as many as 170 countries have now left their climate plans for the Paris meeting is a very positive signal and clear proof that the world's countries are taking this issue more seriously and want to contribute to the fight against climate change. In this context, it is important that we see climate plans as a floor and not as a roof. It is therefore crucial that greater support is created for the Swedish line to make the Paris Agreement dynamic with a review every five years where the ambition of the climate plans can be increased in the light of the latest research. All in all, the climate plans over time need to be able to keep the heating as far below two degrees as possible. For this to succeed, far more ambitious commitments are needed. But the government is not waiting, but is raising the ambition in the climate work in Sweden now and communicating this clearly also internationally. The government's view is that we should lead by example and take our responsibility. Sweden will become one of the world's first fossil-free welfare countries. Emissions will decrease at the pace needed for global sustainable development. Sweden will have a fossil-free vehicle fleet, and the ambition is to reach an energy system with 100 percent renewable energy in the long term. The Government has launched the Fossil free Sweden initiative, where Swedish actors are given the opportunity to make visible how they contribute to the transition to a country without the use of fossil energy. Fossil-free Sweden is also part of strengthening Lima – Paris Action Agenda, LPAA, which is part of the international climate negotiations right now and which will become the international platform for non-state actors' climate work ahead of the climate summit in Paris. With companies, municipalities and organisations, we in Sweden challenge other countries and actors to become fossil-free and raise ambition in the near future by, among other things, taking steps towards a circular and bio-based economy. Jens Holm has also asked me how I intend to respond to the appeal of developing countries for increased support in climate action. Developing countries are the hardest hit by the negative impact of climate change and need support for both climate adaptation and the transition to low-carbon development. That is why we believe that the Paris Agreement should include support for the climate work of the poorest and most vulnerable countries and adaptation to a changing climate through financing, technology dissemination and capacity development. Sweden is one of the world's most ambitious countries in terms of providing climate finance in developing countries. We are the largest donor per capita in both the Green Climate Fund and the Global Environmental Fund. We are also one of the largest donors in absolute terms in the Adaptation Fund and the LDC. In addition to multilateral efforts, extensive work is also being done bilaterally through Sida. This has been clearly communicated in the context of international negotiations and has been very well received. During the World Bank's annual meeting in Lima in October, the Minister of Finance announced that Sweden intends to nearly double its multilateral climate assistance in 2016 compared to 2015 levels. Our commitment will continue at a very high level. We call on all high-income countries to do more to scale up climate finance and also want to see several countries contribute to international climate finance.
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-22	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for Climate and Environment for the answer to my interpellation. With a week left before the climate summit in Paris, we now need a great deal more effort from the world's countries to get a good climate agreement in place, and I certainly agree with that. In the climate negotiations, it is the industrialised countries, the rich countries, that have the historic responsibility for greenhouse gas emissions. It is we who have released the most, and that is why we also have a responsibility to go ahead and reduce our emissions further. We also have a responsibility to help developing countries transfer new technologies and money so that they do not have to make the same mistakes we have made. In the run-up to the climate summit, it is a pity that Sweden as a country does not have its own climate position. We have no own climate contribution to make, but we are leaning on the EU's climate contribution. It consists of a rather short text on about four A4 pages, which promises one thing, to reduce emissions by 40%. The EU does not say anything about how to transfer new technologies to developing countries, how to mobilise money and how to help developing countries deal with the damage and losses they suffer. That is why we need countries that take the lead in the field of climate change. I was pleased to hear the Minister for Climate and the Environment promise that Sweden will do so. But there is still a lot to be done to make it concrete. A few days ago I met a researcher from Bangladesh who advises the government in Bangladesh. He told me that his country lacks the latest technology. He also said that much of the technology needed to reduce its emissions and to deal with climate change already exists, but that technology is very expensive because it is locked in patents that large companies in Europe, Japan and North America control. That technology is not being released into a country like Bangladesh. The researcher said: What if at the climate summit we could identify the most important environmental technologies and say which ones can be released to developing countries so that they won't have to pay expensive licenses and royalties just to make use of that technology? Since Åsa Romson addresses the issue of technology dissemination, I wonder: Could it be a proposal that Sweden might consider assisting in Paris? Madam President, I would like A few weeks ago a letter came to Prime Minister Stefan Löfven. The letter is from Kiribati's president, Anote Anote. In the letter, Anote Anote calls on Stefan Löfven and world leaders to back up the proposal from Kiribati that they should not use more coal, not to start new coal mines. I wonder how the Swedish Government will respond to the President of the island kingdom of Kiribati. Does the Swedish Government and the Minister for Climate and Environment think it is a good proposal to introduce a moratorium on mining new coal deposits? We in Sweden are a big player through Vattenfall, who uses a lot of coal. If Sweden, as the first industrialised country, could say that we support Kiribati's proposal not to use new coal mines, I think it would have a great deal to do with the Paris Summit. What does the Minister for Climate and Environment say?
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-30	Madam President, I would like I thank you for a committed debate around a climate summit that I know Mr Holm is deeply committed to. It is very good that several members of the Swedish Parliament will attend the meeting in Paris on these important issues. I think that is a strength for Sweden. We have a lot of knowledge, awareness, commitment and ideas that need to be disseminated. As the honourable Member mentioned, it is important that Sweden is a clear voice internationally, not least on those issues where we have a strong position that is not fully bound within the EU. That is what is involved in financing and intergovernmental and bilateral cooperation. Not least, Sweden's historic and current very strong aid work is a key to ensuring that climate issues are essentially a global issue of solidarity. I have met several representatives of Bangladesh, which is one of the most vulnerable countries in the world and is already presenting the terrible face of climate change today. They have saltwater penetration at tremendous levels. This is driving away from rural areas. The situation is impossible and is partly exacerbated by the climate change that is already taking place. The climate issue is essentially a global issue of solidarity, and Sweden has a clear role in the negotiations. It is about climate finance and capacity development, and just as Jens Holm says, it is extremely important how we can spread existing technology faster, on a larger scale and to more countries. We welcome the fact that work is under way on capacity-enhancing measures, also focusing on how new technologies can be spread more widely in the framework of UN negotiations. It is also something that the Swedish Government supports. Jens Holm asked a single question about a letter. I can say that this is being prepared within the framework of the work of the Government Office. I also know that questions have been raised about this. We will have to come back to that in Parliament. Of course, I take note of the general question. If all the collages of the world were to be broken, it would be very difficult to cope with climate change at all. In the world today there has been a much stronger debate that this is not a possible scenario. Not least, it can be said that it is also not a possible scenario in relation to the large emissions of pollution caused by coal. Not least, this has led China to rethink some of those lines. This is also the challenge we see in Europe, which is why, among other things, a Swedish state-owned company like Vattenfall is starting to turn its back on coal and instead invests in renewable energy technologies. I would like to broaden Sweden's role during the climate negotiations to really be a role for the whole of Swedish society, including members of the Swedish Parliament, who have some differences of opinion in Swedish politics but who I think have a fairly united position in terms of the climate challenge being a really serious challenge that we owe to our children to overcome and which is possible for the world to take on if we take on the collar and create a sustainable society.
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-36	Madam President, I would like The Minister for Climate and Environment addresses climate finance in the answer to me and tells me that Sweden is a leader in this regard. I think that's good. I just want to be quite sure that the climate finance, that is, the money for developing countries that is promised, is also solid. A few weeks ago, we heard the Minister of Finance talking about the aid budget being halved and the situation for Sweden's finances being very strained. I would just like to remind you that Sweden is still a rich country. We still have a lot of money. Our four major Swedish banks made profits of nearly SEK 100 billion last year. We subsidise environmentally harmful activities with approximately SEK 50 billion. So there's money to take from. But it would be good to make it very clear that the promises we made are solid and that no money is threatened. The initiative for a fossil-free Sweden, which the Minister addresses in the answer to me, is very interesting. It is a great idea that you are challenging other countries to become fossil-free. But for this initiative to be really good, it must be concrete in such a way that we know when Sweden will be fossil-free. My specific questions to the Minister for Climate and Environment are: What is the date for Sweden becoming fossil-free? What is the concrete way forward for how Sweden will become fossil-free? What concrete proposals for action is the government putting forward shortly to ensure that this is indeed the case? On the issue of technology transfer, too, I think it is important to be concrete. I mentioned Bangladesh, but I can also mention the Philippines. At a previous climate summit, one of the Philippines delegates told me how to use advanced data modulation programs to predict extreme weather events. The Philippines, for example, have been severely affected by typhoons in recent years. There are such advanced programs, but they are protected by copyright. If you want to use the programs, it costs a lot of money – money that the Philippines do not have. Here I think there is a very important role for Sweden to play in pushing for this technology to be spread freely. No poor country should have to suffer such weather events if it is possible to avoid them. I wonder whether the Minister is prepared to highlight these issues more specifically at the Paris climate summit. Then there is the letter from Kiribati. Now the Minister for Climate and Environment sees the letter from President Anote Anote, but I'd like to know if she'd seen it before. Has the Minister for Climate and Environment raised this letter, which is addressed to Prime Minister Stefan Löfven? I am now told that the letter is being prepared. However, President Tong would rather have an answer before the Paris climate summit, and that is when we can really get a lift on this issue. Imagine if Sweden as the first industrialized country could go out and say: We support the people of Kiribati. We intend to do everything we can to keep people on these islands northeast of Australia. We support the proposal to stop new coal mines. It is one of Sweden's positions ahead of the climate summit in Paris. Can we hear it before the meeting in Paris, Åsa Romson?
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-42	Madam President, I would like One of the questions that Jens Holm is asking is about how we can better support the capacity of not least small island nations to cope with what is called "early warning systems" and other things that are extremely important in the climate change that we see. It is about adaptation and how to build resilient societies at a time of strong climate change impact. I can inform you that Sweden supports a number of such initiatives. Not least, we have made a strong contribution to a particular hub that will spread knowledge about this, a centre of knowledge. We also contribute through SMHI with a special knowledge platform to several of the African authorities to strengthen their knowledge and processing of how to plan and strengthen adaptation measures. It is very much about the dissemination of knowledge. I agree with Jens Holm that it is important that knowledge can flow freely between countries, when we see that the climate issue is fundamentally a matter of solidarity for the whole world. Another question was about the concrete path towards Sweden becoming fossil-free. This preparation is ongoing, and Jens Holm himself participates in this. One of the first decisions that my department in the government delivered was about securing discussions on future climate goals and above all a framework for managing how we in Sweden ensure that we have a long-term stable climate policy where we secure emission reductions and transition in society and exploit the fantastic opportunities that Sweden has to build a society that is fundamentally independent and free from fossil fuels. It is important that we move forward with this task. The step forward is that it is prepared in broad political discussion. This preparation is called the Environmental Objectives Committee, and it sits Jens Holm himself in. As soon as you submit a report, there is material for the Government Office to work with. I think no one should doubt that when Sweden's Prime Minister Stefan Löfven speaks on Monday before the UN climate summit in Paris, he will talk about these very issues and point to positive examples. Sweden has been able to show that it can reduce climate emissions. Sweden has the position of a bridge in the international negotiations. It is important to convey the essence that it is a fundamentally solidarity-based global task. Getting an ambitious but also fair global climate agreement is a very high priority for the Swedish government. The Prime Minister will express this on Monday at the climate summit.
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-48	Madam President, I would like I will begin by addressing the issue of climate finance. I would like to ask once again whether we can be absolutely sure that the money promised will be paid out and remains. Will the Minister for Climate and the Environment raise the issue with the Minister for Finance? It is worrying that the Minister for Finance is talking about halving total aid, and so on. It's sending the wrong signals. A fossil-free Sweden is a great proposal. But it's not really okay, Åsa Romson, to roll back responsibility for something that the Prime Minister has entered into the Government Declaration to the Environmental Target Committee. I read the directive to the Environmental Objectives Committee just now. It says that the Environmental Objectives Committee – which is the preparation that I am involved in, among other things – will investigate a climate policy framework and how Sweden can achieve zero emissions by 2050. A fossil-free Sweden I consider a slightly different goal. It can complement zero emissions by 2050, but it is not exactly the same. I don't think you should sit and wait for the environmental goal preparation. I want to see concrete proposals here and now that change Sweden and make Sweden fossil-free. Then there will be a lot of good proposals from the Environmental Objectives Committee. I can promise you that right now. This is a concrete contribution from me. It would be fantastic if Stefan Löfven could join the appeal of the people of the island kingdom of Kiribati on Monday in Paris. I believe that the people of Kiribati are speaking on behalf of all developing countries. It wants the industrialised countries to put an end to the new extraction of fossil energy sources and take the lead in climate policy. Kiribati's people deserve it. I hope it will be the Swedish position.
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-53	Madam President, I would like It is not only the people of Kiribati who deserve world leaders to take the climate issue seriously. Perhaps it is the last generation of politicians on earth who can take the issues seriously in such a way that we can turn our societies into something that makes our children and grandchildren have a sufficiently viable environment to build their prosperity on. There, Sweden has a very clear and important position that I have described. You should not think that you need to wait for measures to reduce emissions in Sweden, Jens Holm. The Parliament has on its table a budget that is proposed by the government with many billions of investments so that we can reduce emissions. It is about getting the fleet in order so that more cars and trucks can go on renewable fuels, and we get electric buses, charging stations for electric cars and more biogas in the vehicle fleet and in other parts. It is about continuing energy efficiency so that we can make use of the resources we have in a sensible way. The budget is full of climate investments. You don't have to wait for Sweden to take steps towards a fossil-free society.
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-56	Madam President, I would like Maria Stenergard has asked me whether I believe that the principle of the agreement should also apply between relatives. She has also asked me how I believe that a transition from the traditional principle to the principle of contract may affect the work against serious organised crime. A transition from the traditional principle to the contractual principle means that a buyer of a good should be protected against the seller's creditors already through the contract rather than when the goods have been handed over to the buyer. In its report, the Procurement Committee has proposed such a transition. The Committee has considered that this would have long-term and tangible socio-economic benefits. The report has been referred in spring 2015. An important aspect of further work is the economic benefits that may result from a transition to the contractual principle. Business organisations have long advocated a transition to the contractual principle. The Committee has considered that the introduction of the contract principle will be made easier by the manufacturing industry, and not least by the export industry. This aspect lies in one of the scales. The government has intensified its efforts to combat organised crime. Some consultation bodies have pointed out that the Committee's proposals may lead to an increased risk of more financial crimes and false transactions, such as between relatives. I take these concerns very seriously. This aspect lies in the second balance. On the basis of these aspects, for example, preparations are now underway in the Ministry of Justice. Only a few weeks ago, I have been asked by Maria Stenergard how I view a transition to the principle of contract in the light of the objection to increased risk of sham transactions. As I replied then, the answer now is that I do not want to anticipate the further preparation work.
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-62	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister of Justice. The subject of the interpellation may seem a little technical. But it is really a very practical and central issue in the field of civil law. It affects almost everyone, both businesses and individuals, perhaps every day without us thinking about it. It is a question of when a purchase is actually considered to have been made: when is the agreement reached or when the property has been handed over? Does it matter? Yes, it matters very much if any of those who enter into a purchase agreement are unable to pay their bills and are thus in debt. Imagine that a serious criminal with large debts is stopped while he or she travels on an exclusive motorcycle. A few weeks earlier, the person has transferred the motorcycle to say his brother and can present an agreement on this to the bailiff. With today's principle of tradition, it does not hold up, but one can quite easily foreclose the motorcycle. With the principle of contract, it becomes much more difficult. The demand for tradition may seem harsh to the common man, but it counteracts false transactions. This, in turn, leads to a greater need for people to do their own thing. You shouldn't be able to hide property too easily when you have debts. Contracts shall be kept, and debts shall be paid. These principles must permeate the legal system. In March this year Morgan Johansson received the inquiry Lösöreköp and register pant. The study proposes a transition from the traditional principle to the contractual principle. The investigation has been referred. In its consultation, the Swedish Enforcement Authority considers that a transition to the contractual principle will lead to an increase in the number of false transactions preferably between individuals. The Chord Centre has the same concerns: As regards purchases and exchanges between related family members, the Chord Centre considers that there is a clear risk that false transactions will increase in scale. In view of the risk of false transactions between relatives, the Tax Agency proposes that protection against creditors should only arise after registration in relation to the transfer of property between spouses. It says: In the same way as in free transfers, spouses can agree to simply try to make property inaccessible to creditors by claiming that the debtor has sold his property to the other spouse. The enforcement authority will then often face difficult evidence situations as there has been no external change. Many consultation bodies thus point to the obvious risk of false transactions. What does the investigation say about this? Well, that's a question. It is very brief that the traditional requirement is usually motivated by the interest in counteracting false transactions and other forms of evasion. However, the Committee has not been able to find any evidence that a transition to the contractual principle risks leading to more sham transactions. That's all. I find it rather remarkable when all the heavy referral bodies find such evidence. Madam President, I would like The proposal also has financial consequences that are not highlighted in the investigation. Last year, the enforcement officer raised SEK 6.1 billion of government debt. As regards financial consequences, the Authority is concerned that the number of cases in which enforcement may take place despite the opposition of third parties will decrease and that the creditor collective, including the State, will thus be deprived of payments. There can certainly be good reasons to move on to the principle of the agreement, at least in certain circumstances. But then you get to wear your feet. In the investigation, the financial consequences and the risk of false transactions are very casually affected.
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-72	Madam President, I would like It was the previous government that set up the investigation. I imagine that this was done in the light of the idea that there would be tangible benefits to be gained if we moved on to the new principle. Above all, this could make it easier for business. The truth is that although this is a principle that we have had in Sweden since ancient times – at least as long as one can imagine in modern times as regards law – this is not shared by many other countries. We are quite alone in Sweden on the principle of tradition. The agreement principle, i.e. what is the alternative, has a much stronger position, for example, in the countries that are our four largest trading partners: Germany, the United Kingdom, Norway and Finland. You can imagine that they experience this system when you put buyers of Swedish goods in a strange situation, as strange. To be fully protected, the goods must have been traded, i.e. handed over. At least I imagine that's how the old government reasoned when it set up the investigation. They wanted to weigh the arguments that existed for and against each other. Maria Stenergard points to the concerns raised by some of the consultative bodies. I would like to say that none of the referrals she refers to have rejected the proposal. On the other hand, they have highlighted these concerns. There is also another list – the list of referrals that have been in favour of the proposal. There are a number of courts, Svea Court of Appeal, the Court of Appeal for Upper Norrland, a number of district courts, the Swedish Consumer Agency and Stockholm University. There are also business organisations, such as the Swedish Federation of Small Enterprises and the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise. Here you will find the Swedish Banking Association, the Swedish Credit Association, the Swedish Bar Association and the Technology Companies. It is therefore a long series of consultation bodies that point out that this would make it easier for business and the type of business transactions that we are talking about here. Just as I said in my reply earlier to Maria Malmer Stenergard, we are in the middle of a processing process. Here it is a question of weighing the pros and cons against each other. In so far as some disadvantages are found, it may be possible to look at ways of simply compensating for them if the risks of this type of sham transactions increase. There is one thing we are currently looking at in the Government Office.
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-78	Madam President, I would like Of course, it is true that it was the previous government that set up the investigation. But now it landed on the knees of the present government, and then it is up to that government to ensure that the issue is properly prepared. It can be noted that the impact assessment in the investigation is, to say the least, limited. The chairman of the investigation himself has written in an article in the Swedish Legal Journal that, for the purposes of enforcement, the contract principle is deemed to result in a slightly reduced number of measurements, which may be regarded as a given result of a transition. It is therefore a clear consequence that fewer foreclosures are made and that fewer creditors are paid. There will be fewer people who do the right thing. I think that is a rather serious consequence, which one cannot only touch in such an investigation. On the contrary, in its impact assessment, the Committee believes that the fact that creditors may have a little less to share in themselves is not considered to be a negative effect of the proposal, i.e. that it would not be a problem for creditors not to be paid. I'm having a bit of a hard time grasping that. The fact that the consequences are not sufficiently illustrated in the investigation is also highlighted in a special opinion of lawyer Odd Swarting, as well as expert in the investigation. He writes: "The traditional principle does not create any significant economic disadvantages because the business community has established itself according to it, and the traditional principle also has many advantages. The positive effects of a transition to the contractual principle on which the Committee bases its proposal are, in my view, relatively loose assumptions. In addition, the economic disadvantages of abandoning the principle are not sufficiently taken into account. For my part, I fear that the transition to a contractual principle will lead to socio-economic disadvantages and negative effects on debtors and creditors, and I therefore believe that it is wrong to abandon the efficient, robust, predictable and long-standing well-functioning and relatively easy-to-use system of the traditional principle. Madam President, I would like In the case of serious criminals, it is not uncommon for them to be in possession of valuable property. It can be about motorcycles, as I mentioned in my initial example, cars, watches and gold. Within the framework of the work on serious organised crime, police and enforcement officers have started to cooperate precisely in order to access this type of property. The business has been very successful. Last year the bailiff's special recovery team, which focuses precisely on the serious organized crime, ran in SEK 716 million. This work would be seriously made more difficult if we were to move on to a contractual principle. The Kronofigdeföreningen, which brings together the lawyers of the agency, is clear in its consultation response to this problem. It says: It will essentially make the work of combating serious organised crime more difficult, and it will be offensive to the public opinion that the Enforcement Authority does not get access to property that can be seized today because of the strong presumption of ownership. How does the investigation view this aspect? That's what you wonder. The answer is given in one sentence: the proposals are deemed not to have a significant impact on crime or crime prevention. Point. I am very pleased that Morgan Johansson, in his response to my interpellation, states that he takes the concerns about the risks to work against serious organised crime seriously. However, it is quite serious that this aspect is not at all included in the investigation. If we are to propose an amendment to the fundamental principles of Swedish civil law, I hope that this issue will first be better highlighted. The work that has been started on serious organised crime must not be reversed. On the contrary, it must be strengthened at all levels. Accessing criminal assets is a very important piece of the puzzle in that work.
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-87	Madam President, I would like To some extent this is a bit of reverse roles. I have a strong criticism of the old government on the issues of financial crime and the government's sometimes somewhat lax view of how different compensation systems could be designed, for example in the case of the Employment Service or other compensations, in a way that actually benefited organised crime. In practice, only one crane could be opened and money poured directly from the taxpayer. In light of this, we appointed a special investigator who will now press all our systems to make it as difficult as possible to cheat with benefit systems or other compensations. I can say that we have also had to roll back some of the replacement systems introduced by the bourgeois. My whole point of entry into the debate has been that we must ensure that systems are created that make it as difficult as possible for organised criminals to exploit the systems. Therefore, when I say in my interpellation response that we take this seriously, I am serious. That's one part. On the other hand, I understand that when the previous government set up the investigation, it was probably done to meet the interests of the business community, I imagine. When you look at the referrals that have come, you can see that it is precisely business interests that say: It would make it easier for us in an international market if we had a different contractual principle. That is what we are in the middle of trying to see if we can find a solution to. As I said, I take this very seriously in the further processing process, but I am not prepared now to put my foot down on how to land. We must, of course, consider whether there are compensatory measures that can be used if we are to change the principle.
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-92	Madam President, I would like I do not know if these are changing roles, and I do not really know what open cranes the Minister is talking about, but I note that we are at least on the same side in the fight against serious organised crime. I think that is a good thing. If you are to leave a principle that has been in force for over 150 years in Swedish law, you should have quite good reasons. The main argument here is that it would facilitate Swedish exports, as many other countries apply the contractual principle. It is mainly this aspect, which the Minister of Justice mentions lies in one of the scales, which is in favour of change. But Sweden's two by far the most important exporting countries are Norway and Germany, and as a general rule they apply the traditional principle, as the investigation shows. Is that argument really going to outweigh all the other arguments put forward by the referral bodies? The risk of false transactions between mainly related persons, the risk of loss of revenue both for individuals and for the state, the risk of a deterioration in payment standards and, not least, the risk of working against serious organised crime are such arguments. I think that a lot is against it, but if you are going to change, you must at least make sure that you have a much better basis. I hope that the government will come back to this if necessary. I would like to thank you for the debate and for the Minister's time. I know it's busy days for him.
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-96	Madam President, I would like There is not much more to say about this. We see the problem picture, and the risks that the consultation bodies point to, we have to find ways to meet. We are in the middle of such a process of preparation, and that is why I am not putting my foot down on this issue today.
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-97	Madam President, I would like Jörgen Warborn has proposed legislation to combat so-called piracy and has asked me which of these proposals will be included in the round table process initiated by the Minister for Culture and Democracy. He has also asked whether I and the government see any other legislative proposals that can be taken up in the round table process and help to reduce the illegal circulation and consumption of copyrighted material. Sweden is a successful country in terms of both content production, such as music, film and computer games, and the development of new services for access to such content. Strong copyright protection, which is also respected on the Internet, is a prerequisite for Sweden to continue to be so. Creation, creativity and investment must be encouraged by paying authors and other rightholders for their work. This ultimately contributes to both rich cultural offer and economic growth. The Round Table is led by the Minister for Culture and Democracy. They aim to discuss what can be done in addition to legislation to reduce the illegal circulation of copyrighted material and the use of illegal services. The talks involve authors, producers, advertising buyers, Internet service providers and others who are affected by these issues in different ways. It is thus an excellent opportunity to discuss how to promote legal alternatives and in various ways make it more difficult for those who make money illegally to distribute films, music or books. It is not intended that neither Jörgen Warborn nor any other legislative proposals will be discussed during the Round Table. The initiative for the round table process is appreciated. With regard to Jörgen Warborn's proposal on substance, I can refer to the answer to his written questions that I submitted a few weeks ago.
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-101	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The reason I raise this issue is that I see quite a big problem with copyright in Sweden. There was a survey last spring that Mediavision was behind, and it turned out that more than 30 percent of the Swedish population consume illegal material via web sites. It's about TV and film in these cases. It has been a big problem for the music industry and it still is, but TV and film is what this affects right now. 30 percent of the Swedish people consume TV and film this way. That's about 2.3 million people. According to this survey, these people watch four to five films every month illegally. It is clear that this is a rather big problem that we must try to address in some way. I heard someone mention that this is perhaps the most common crime in Sweden right now. Perhaps the Minister will be able to comment on that. I guess the government thinks this is a problem and something that we need to find different ways to get to. As I see it, the toolbox contains various and important tools. The first is to communicate and educate people about what copyright is and why it is a problem when you violate it. The second is that the industry can make a lot of effort. I think it should be clear that the industry has a great responsibility to do so. It can be business development in different ways, and it can be joint efforts to strangle the money supply. One should know that this is organized economic crime that some individuals earn quite a lot of money from, and the industry has an opportunity to make efforts to influence it. The third tool is legislation. I interpret the Minister's and the Government's response as saying that for some reason it has not been thought of looking at that tool at all. I'll make some suggestions on things you can investigate. There are three different proposals that I think the government should look at. Now the round table discussion has started, and that is good. I think it is a good initiative, and I look forward to the further process. It will be exciting to follow it. But I think it would be natural to also use the third tool in the box and not exclude it. I would like to ask the Minister to comment on how he thinks when he has so clearly decided not to go through the legislative process. Why does the government choose to exclude that option? Waiting for something? A comment on how you have thought would be welcome.
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-105	Madam President, I would like This discussion has been going back and forth for the last ten years. I remember very well how the former Prime Minister, Fredrik Reinfeldt, said in the election movement that he did not want to ban file sharing, because he did not want to criminalize a youth generation, as it was then called. Then it didn't take long before it became quite obvious that copyright must actually be protected, and it then became the line that the previous government joined. That is exactly the line that this government also has, that is to say, to safeguard copyright. Jörgen Warborn asks what we are waiting for, i.e. whether there are any processes going on. There are actually two processes going on that I think we should consider here. This legislation is currently being examined in a case before the Stockholm District Court. It is about whether it should be possible to block pirate sites, i.e. whether it is a consequence of Swedish legislation. The first verdict in that question comes in the near future. I do not want to anticipate that process, but the possibility of blocking such pages is an effective means. Whether it is a consequence of Swedish law or not is up to the court to decide. The second process under way is at EU level. These questions are widely looked at, and the question of blocking is also included. There, too, such suggestions may come. I almost believe that if you are going to look for any further legislative initiatives, it is in this context that you should seek rather than looking at criminal law that Jörgen Warborn here is concerned with.
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-109	Madam President, I would like Blocking is one of the things I lift up, i.e. that you should have the opportunity to block these sites after a court order. I fully understand that the Minister is a little bit on the subject right now, given that it is a court process under way. We'll both have to follow it and see how the decision lands. However, it can be observed that such a court process is very time-consuming and expensive, which means that it is large players who can run such proceedings while smaller film companies may find it more difficult to do so. But let us put that question aside for so long and wait. From what I understand, there will be a verdict on Friday. The Minister also highlights the EU discussion and that there may be initiatives from the Commission, including in the near future what I understand. I am a little concerned that the government does not seem to be pursuing any specific issues with regard to the Commission. There are no government initiatives. One should know that we in Sweden are the worst in the class, at least in the Nordic countries – I do not know the statistics for all EU countries. As I mentioned earlier, over 30% consume television and film illegally in Sweden. This is not the case in Denmark, Finland or Norway, for example. Then we have to ask ourselves why. Yes, those countries have taken action. I propose some of those measures here too. The various countries have, of course, done a little differently. Some of the things I asked the minister about in the interpellation are streaming. The legal situation is a little unclear today. That should be made clear. We've made it illegal to download a movie. But it's not illegal to stream it, or it's probably not illegal – to be honest, I don't really know. The Minister replies that the legislation allows the production of temporary copies, even if the material would be laid out without the author's permission. It is therefore a calm statement from the government that this is the case. I would rather see that something is done about it. That is why I propose looking at the issue and also making streaming illegal. Then we could get to a large part of the problem. The search I referred to earlier also shows that a large proportion would stop streaming from an illegal source, given that they knew it was illegal. I would like the Minister to comment on whether there is a reason to look at it. I also put forward an idea to introduce gross copyright infringement. It should not be directed at the youth generation, but rather at the senders, those who are behind the sites and earn quite a lot of money from them. Both the police and the prosecutor have asked for that tool. A tougher scale of penalties creates opportunities for police and prosecutors to conduct investigations better. I welcome a comment from the Minister on this point too.
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-117	Madam President, I would like It is worrying when you are in the middle of a situation where you have to wait for different legal positions. As far as blocking is concerned, it is just such a situation. The question is being examined by the Stockholm District Court. As I said, we will have its decision in the near future. Pending that, I do not wish to pre-empt the discussion. The same situation also exists when it comes to streaming. The question is whether or not it is compatible with EU law. There's a legal process going on. This time it is a Dutch court that has made a request to bring such a decision to the European Court of Justice. This is therefore the case if streaming in this way can be banned and stopped. We will see what the European Court of Justice says in that case. It feels strange to start a new, big process if the goal we want to achieve is already achieved. Just when it comes to streaming, it's not very easy. It is a crime that is quite difficult to prove, even if you have a rule of law in place. Jörgen Warborn refers to Denmark where streaming is considered an infringement of copyright. There is such a law on paper. But there is not a single judgment of individual streaming in Denmark. I am open to more measures to maintain Swedish copyright. That is a very strong goal for us. However, with regard to the measures in particular, there are legal proceedings which we must await. I cannot therefore put my foot down harder today than I have already done.
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-121	Madam President, I would like I welcome the fact that the government is opening up to look at this when the legal proceedings are over. It's the first time I've heard it so clearly. That is a message that I very much welcome. I think the industry does, too. One should know that what is in the balance is that culture will be much poorer if we do not get to grips with the problem. Producing a new film is a complicated and difficult process. It is therefore necessary to protect copyright. I'm happy about the message that was given. Denmark was mentioned again. What I wanted from the outset was for us to do several different things, preferably at the same time and preferably as soon as possible. That's what I feel the government doesn't do. Our figures for illegal streaming and downloading are 32 percent. This compares with Denmark, which is down to 8%, I think. Apparently, they have succeeded in something, which is basically good. I also believe that there is an important signal value in saying what is right and what is wrong. On the issue of streaming, I very much hope that we can move forward. It is clear that if the youth generation, to which the Minister referred earlier, does not feel that it is doing anything wrong, it could harm the legal system otherwise. It is also likely that the problem will increase. There are probably new investigations all the time, and there have been attacks on some large site which may temporarily reduce the use. But I think it is a little urgent and hope that the government becomes even more active in the issues, both in Sweden and within the EU, and pushes so that we can get to grips with the problem and so that the good Swedish culture and Swedish filmmaking can continue.
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-126	Madam President, I would like As I said, I am open to looking at what we can do, especially at European level, to put an end to the formal problem of ongoing legal proceedings. We are talking not only about great economic values – it is one thing – but also about great cultural values. The round table talks launched by Alice Bah Kuhnke are a forum for discussing just that. However, as I said, I am open to moving forward with further efforts, particularly at European level, in order to overcome this.
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-128	Madam President, I would like Boriana Åberg has asked me what I intend to do to resolve the unique and, in the long term, unsustainable situation and whether I intend to tighten up border controls. Furthermore, Boriana Åberg has asked me whether I intend, at least temporarily, to stop the reception and what steps I will take to bring order to the reception of refugees. Right now, the most difficult refugee situation is taking place in modern times. More people than ever before are seeking asylum in Sweden, and the challenges facing the Swedish asylum system are huge. In order to create order in the reception, a better establishment and cushion the cost increases, the government, the Moderates, the Center Party, the People's Party Liberals and the Christian Democrats agreed on 23 October on the necessary efforts. The Government submitted an amending budget to Parliament on 12 November. The amending budget proposes to increase expenditure in the 2015 budget by SEK 11 billion. The 11 billion will facilitate the work of municipalities and civil society organisations in dealing with the large number of refugees coming to Sweden and the establishment of new arrivals. The government also decided on 12 November to temporarily reintroduce border control at the internal border. This was necessary because the situation posed urgent challenges for important functions in society. On 19 November, the Government decided to extend border control at internal borders until 11 December. The Government considers that the conditions on which the previous decision was based continue to apply. Border control provides a better overview and more information about who actually comes to Sweden, what their intentions are and how we can best meet their needs. In this way, the authorities will be better placed to maintain order and security. The municipalities will have better planning conditions to deal with the reception of refugees. However, internal border control does not affect the right of asylum. Anyone who applies to Sweden has the right to apply for asylum. The government notes that many municipalities and authorities have a power collection. It is essential that all those involved take preparatory action for a long-term management of the situation and the major challenges we face. However, no country can meet this challenge alone. That is why the government is pushing for joint responsibility by the countries of the EU. The government has decided to request the redistribution of asylum seekers to other Member States. The government is continuously following developments and does not rule out the need for further action.
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-135	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. Since I put the interpellation, temporary border controls have been introduced. It happened weeks after the Moderates demanded it. The introduction of border controls was a step in the right direction, but far from sufficient. Nor should we forget that these border controls are designed as spot checks and do not meet the intention of getting an overview of who is entering the country. It is not only my view that the situation is more strained than ever. It requires the government to act here and now! The Migration Agency has alerted the lack of space. The Swedish Civil Protection Agency notes that the capacity to receive asylum seekers is already running out in December. Municipalities admit that the situation goes beyond all other activities. Yes, even Social Democratic councillors feel that the state has abdicated. Sweden needs a government that shows strong leadership! We Moderates have proposed a series of measures that must become a reality if Sweden is to have a chance to overcome the crisis. We call for strict application of the Dublin Regulation. Asylum seekers coming directly from another EU country shall be refused entry if they have not previously been registered in the EU Common Asylum System. Those already registered shall be referred to the EU country to which they first arrived. Then we will have more opportunity to take care of the people who are already in the country. We want a faster and more effective return process. The whole legitimacy of the asylum system is based on the fact that a yes is a yes and a no is a no. Anyone who has received a expulsion order must leave the country. If you stay, you'll get a job and a place to live quickly. It would be interesting to hear what the Minister for Justice and Migration thinks of our proposals.
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-144	Madam President, I would like A little over a week ago, as I said, we reintroduced internal border controls. It was in order to gain control of the reception but also to be able to know who is going to Sweden. This was Thursday, and Friday the terrorist attack happened in Paris. If we hadn't introduced it by then, on Thursday, we'd probably have to do it on Saturday. This is because we now need all the filters in Europe, I would say, in order to be able to control safety situations such as this one. We are very well aware of the situation that exists, particularly with regard to the country's municipalities. But you should also know that it looks different. Some municipalities have and have had a very difficult situation. Malmö is such a municipality, which now takes very much responsibility. Trelleborg used to be, before we introduced border controls. Now it has eased considerably in Trelleborg as a result of the introduction of ID checks on those who board the ferries between Rostock and Trelleborg. This means that many of those who previously came to Trelleborg via Rostock– not all of them – some stay in Germany – now instead go through Malmö. Some municipalities therefore take very much responsibility. I can only say that while some municipalities do, some other municipalities do not. That was the background to the fact that in the agreement we made with the bourgeois parties, among other things, we got the point that all municipalities now actually had to take responsibility. It's not good enough just to say that you should open your heart. If so, we must also be prepared to open Täby, Lidingö, Danderyd, Staffanstorp, Lomma, Vellinge and a large number of other municipalities that have not actually taken responsibility over the years. I am pleased that there is now a large majority in the Riksdag to ensure that all municipalities take responsibility. Sweden is the country in Europe, I would say, which has taken the greatest responsibility for the international refugee situation. Our figures are almost twice as high per capita as for number two on the list of asylum seekers in Sweden. More countries must also take responsibility. That is why we managed to push through the whole proposal for an opportunity to redistribute refugees within Europe. This is the first time that the European Union has ever been able to point to a country and say: But then those countries must do the same. So far, this redistribution is too slow. Unless more countries want to help, the commitment and responsibility for those countries that want to help will be much greater. This is the situation in which Sweden has ended up. That is why we have had 7 000, 8 000, 9 000, up to 10 000 asylum seekers per week in the last few weeks. We're hitting the capacity ceiling. That is why I already said last week that we need to take more measures, not only to increase the capacity of the Swedish systems – we will do so – but also to bring down the number of asylum seekers coming to Sweden. We are the country that has done the most, but we cannot do everything. There's a limit to us, too. We hold talks with the bourgeois parties all the time within the framework of the Six Party Agreement. In the near future, we will resume proper negotiations on new such measures. In fact, the government's position on these negotiations will be announced this afternoon, in just an hour's time.
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-156	Madam President, I would like It was a very interesting and unexpected announcement that the government is presenting its positions for a future new migration agreement. I think the Minister is unfair when he points out municipalities like Danderyd, Staffanstorp, Lomma, Vellinge and so on. It is municipalities that contribute a great deal of tax revenue, and there are some calculations in the statistics that do not show the real responsibility these municipalities take. For example, Staffanstorp receives very many unaccompanied children, but these are not counted in the same way in the statistics. To return to the question, I think it is a good thing, as the Minister says in his reply, that the government has allocated an extra 11 billion to facilitate the work of local authorities in dealing with the challenges. It was also part of the agreement between the government and the Alliance. But it's not just about money. It is about organisations that are not dimensioned to be subjected to such extreme pressure as they are now subjected to. It's about staff shortages. Where to find more teachers and more social security officers? What happens when new needs crowd out regular activities? It is about premises, both for municipal activities such as preschools and schools and for housing. Last Thursday, 19 November, the Migration Agency in Malmö announced that it did not pass its mission to give people shelter over their heads. People were forced to sleep outdoors in the cold. Hadn't St John's Church opened and let people sleep on the church benches, we would still have had asylum seekers sleeping outdoors when there was snow and several degrees below zero. It is about the rule of law and proper and dignified treatment. Municipalities around Sweden have lex Sara h- registered themselves because they place children in families that they have not had time to investigate. It is deeply disturbing and runs counter to the principle of the best interests of children. It should also concern the Minister of Justice and Migration, not least in his role as Minister of Justice, when he knows how defenseless children can be and what horrors they may experience if they are placed in the wrong family home. Madam President, I would like Last night, our party leader, Anna Kinberg Batra, demanded new discussions because what has been agreed so far is not enough. It seems to me that we agree that a new migration agreement needs to be put in place quickly. Now it is up to the government to show responsibility, and I will be excited to follow the press conference this afternoon.
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-166	Madam President, I would like In a way, this interpellation debate is quite timely, but it also makes it a bit difficult for me because I do not want to go ahead. Of course, I fully share the picture that the situation for the municipalities and for the Migration Agency is very strained and has been so for a long time. Just over 14 days ago I went out and said that we have now reached the capacity ceiling, that we will now have a situation where we may no longer be able to offer people accommodation. If you then come to Sweden's border from Germany or Denmark, you are faced with the choice to either try to arrange accommodation on your own or to go back to Denmark or Germany and apply for asylum there. There is that possibility. In addition, Europe is bigger than just Sweden and Germany. There are more countries that should take a much greater responsibility than they do. Unfortunately, there is political pressure in some countries, especially from the political right, which means that they absolutely do not want to accept refugees. If the situation is such that only some countries are willing to accept refugees and make a contribution, the responsibility will also be much greater. Finally, the load becomes too large to draw for an individual country. There we are. As far as border controls are concerned, I can see that they have worked in a way; we have got the reception right. But I can also say that a country like Denmark allows people to travel through its territory even though they do not really have the right to stay there. In fact, they are going to seek asylum in Denmark, but the Danish Government has explicitly said that it does not want to introduce border controls because then the risk is greater that more people apply for asylum in Denmark. I find that approach difficult to understand. All countries must take responsibility. Denmark has a situation where they come up in about 30 000 asylum seekers this year, while Sweden has a situation where we will have up to 200 000 asylum seekers. There is only one way to resolve this overall, and that is to take joint responsibility. All countries in Europe must take responsibility, regardless of their political colour. If they do not, we are going to find ourselves in a situation where those countries that want to take responsibility are seriously concerned. In addition, all municipalities within Sweden must take responsibility. Boriana Åberg does not want to know that some municipalities have not wanted to accept refugees. But that's the way it is. The number of asylum seekers is extremely disparate, and some municipalities have previously refused to sign agreements with the Migration Agency. We are now getting a system in place that allows us to oblige the municipalities to accept asylum seekers. This is based on the conditions that the municipalities have, both based on how many people live in the municipality and based on what the economic conditions otherwise look like. I think that is a great success. Such legislation is on the way to being put in place. We have a legislative referral and will present a proposal to the Riksdag. There is only one way to resolve this in the long term, and that is that everyone shares responsibility. When this does not happen, countries like Sweden end up in a situation where we have to say that other countries have to draw a bigger load. Just in that situation, we are now. As I said, notification of our entry values for a new negotiation will be received shortly. I would like us to stick together the agreement reached by the six parties and to continue the talks in a constructive spirit.
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-176	Madam President, I would like When it comes to taking joint responsibility within the European Union, we share that view. It is everyone's conviction that it is good and fair both in terms of migration policy and other policies. With regard to Denmark's border controls, I assume that the Minister for Justice and Migration plans to have a serious conversation with his Danish colleague. As far as distribution is concerned, we know that Sweden is now a net donor in the EU. At the same time, we have taken a much greater responsibility for migration than most other EU countries. Our public finances have been affected by billion-dollar costs. Will the government follow the Moderates' proposal and push at EU level for Sweden's fee to be reduced in the coming years as a result of the great responsibility we have assumed?
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-179	Madam President, I would like When you take a battle, a conflict, with the EU, you should preferably do so in an area where you think there are opportunities to win. When it comes to reducing the levy, I can say that there is no country, not that I know of, which has succeeded in doing so. However, we can try to get resources from the rest of the EU system. There are funds where you can apply for financial compensation for receipt. We have submitted such an application. Part of the deal on 23 October was that we should apply from these funds, and we have done so. We will see what the outcome will be, but of course we will work hard for it. When we are the country that takes the greatest responsibility in the European Union, we must also be able to get the money that is in the European system. Otherwise, we need to take more action. We need to do it together, the government and the four bourgeois parties. I look forward to such conversations. They will start to be implemented in the near future. In order to cope with this situation, we must have this kind of cross-block cooperation. The last deal was good, because it forms a foundation. Now we need to move on from that deal.
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-182	Madam President, I would like Torbjörn Björlund has asked me how I intend to act to ensure that the Migration Agency complies with the law and the promises made by the work and is given resources to cope with the legal, fair and humane treatment of the asylum seekers Palestinians in Sweden. The written answer I recently gave to Björlund on the same question still applies: When examining individual cases, the Migration Board and the Migration Courts shall consider any obstacles to the enforcement of expulsion decisions. According to the preparatory work of the Aliens Act, such a decision should not be notified if it cannot be enforced. It is the Finnish Immigration Service and the courts that are conducting these trials. As a minister, I cannot interfere in the handling of individual cases, but it goes without saying that our authorities and courts must comply with the legislation in force. I have confidence that this will be done. The Aliens Act has been adopted by a united parliament. I believe that it provides a good basis for legal certainty and that it meets high standards of legal certainty. In order for our authorities and courts to be able to meet these requirements, the government ensures that the necessary resources are set aside in the budget. I have followed the developments of those people who have obtained a final decision on expulsion and who have difficulties in implementing it. The government will therefore carry out a review.
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-187	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I have previously tabled a written question on this, and the Minister's reply now takes its starting point in the answer to that question and sounds much the same. It makes me a little less satisfied with the answer to the interpellation than I had hoped to be. First of all, of course, we are all aware of the problems we face today in dealing with refugees and asylum seekers. We have a wave of refugees from Syria, above all, who are putting great strain on the work of the Migration Agency. We know about that today. However, it is a wave of refugees that has been going on for a few months or maybe six months, while the cases I refer to are those that existed before this happened. This is therefore not caused by today's high load on the Migration Agency, but it is about that there are errors somewhere, either systematically or in other ways. We must follow the developments that are taking place in order to ensure a legally secure process in relation to these things, no matter what it looks like today or in the future. I also know that this is not something for which the current government should be fully charged. You have been sitting for about a year and have not had time to change so much, but it is the work of the previous government that characterises this. But it is still the current Minister for Migration who has the question in his lap. That's why I'm putting these things on. We know today that the situation in Palestine and Gaza is rather difficult, especially in Gaza. It's been so long. They've been in a blockade since 2007, and they've been the victims of a couple of wars – or rather a couple of assaults from Israel – that have created a situation that makes many people unable or unwilling to live there but flee from there. That is one reason why people are fleeing, just like in Syria. You live in a society that simply doesn't work. Above all, it is a matter of principle that people should not be sent back to war-torn areas. Gaza is bombed. Today, many view Gaza as the largest outdoor prison in the world. This must be allowed to affect the management of the refugees who come from there. We know that tensions are increasing today, not only with regard to Israel and Palestine, but throughout the Middle East. Of course, it also affects Egypt, to which I will return here. As I show in the interpellation, we have a number of cases where you can see the similarities in how you handle things. Many are waiting one or a year and a half, and that can be acceptable. But when it goes two, three, four or perhaps up to eight years, as we have seen in one case in the Uppsala Group, you start to think about how the Migration Agency works. In his reply, the Minister for Migration refers to his reply to the written question and repeats what he said there. Resignation back to Gaza is about being sent to Egypt. Today, in this group, as elsewhere, there are a number of people who have followed all the rules and applied for visas to Egypt in order to enter Gaza, but they do not get a visa. What does that mean? What does the Aliens Act say? Well, it says exactly the same thing as the Minister for Migration answers: If you have not ensured that you can expel people, they should not be expelled. Then they should not even be notified of expulsion decisions, but it is still done. In some cases, three expulsion decisions have been issued that cannot be enforced. Somewhere here there's a system malfunction. Then one must learn from this and say that it is not possible to do so. We must do otherwise: we must grant these people a residence permit. This is really what I am looking for, and I hope in some way that we can move forward in this debate, so that we can get an answer on how to change the situation so that these people do not get in the middle of everything.
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-198	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister Morgan Johansson! I would also like to thank Mr Torbjörn for a speech in which I agree with everything. In Malmö, the city I come from, we have the situation that stateless Palestinians from Iraq and Gaza have protested since 11 August – that is over three months. What they have protested about is the treatment they have received from the Migration Agency, which allows stateless Palestinians to live in a limbo situation. This is the result of getting a expulsion decision that cannot be enforced after you have been here in Sweden for maybe six, seven or eight years. It is clear to all those who have followed this issue that rejection is impossible to enforce, and therefore stateless Palestinians from Iraq began a few months ago to obtain a residence permit in Sweden. The stateless Palestinians from Gaza in particular, but also the West Bank, have a similar situation. It is a vulnerable group without a state that can protect them, and they often get caught in the Middle East. They should be rejected into an area in which it is directly dangerous for them to reside and where fundamental human rights are not respected. The main point is that the rejection cannot be carried out because, in principle, the Rafah changeover has been completely closed for several years and there is no indication that the changeover will open. The visa to Egypt is not carried out either, and if they were to get a visa to Egypt, they would be stopped at Cairo airport. They're not allowed into the country. They're being sent back. This is something that the Migration Board itself notes in the Lifo document 35896, which is also referred to in the answer. We owe legal certainty, justice and humane treatment to all stateless Palestinians. That is not the case today. As Morgan Johansson and Mr Torbjörn have pointed out, the Migration Board and the Migration Courts must consider possible obstacles to the execution of expulsion decisions. Among the protesting Palestinians in Malmö, several have contributed to attempts at rejection. For example, Mahmoud El Hamal-Awi-Awi, who has been refused his application three times. The last time was in early 2013. He has applied for a visa to Egypt on several occasions, most recently in December 2014. He has still not even received an answer to his application a year later. Mahmoud is now 25 years old. His life should flourish. He should be allowed to choose the path in life, but it is now set on exceptions and he lives in a limbo situation without the right to stay and without the right to live in another country. Mahmoud and all the other stateless Palestinians from Gaza cannot return. As I emphasised, it is both because the Rafah changeover is closed and because Egypt does not grant transit visas. The question then becomes: How much time is going to elapse before an enforcement record actually results in the 12th chapter. Paragraph 18(2) is used, what is to say that we give the asylum seeker the opportunity to stay in Sweden? The question also goes without saying: What is required of the individual who is to be rejected in order for that person to be regarded as showing his or her participation in the rejection? You can't use more than all the means at your disposal.
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-205	Madam President, I would like I think we still agree on the basic issue. If you have a need for protection, you can stay in Sweden, but if you do not have it and have been refused your application, you must return home. Then you should also contribute to such referral. It is essentially courts that decide whether or not you have a need for protection. If the court has found that there is no need for protection, it must also decide whether it is possible to enforce it, i.e. to go back. So far, the courts and authorities have considered it possible to go back to Palestine as such and also to Gaza. The transition between Egypt and Gaza has been sporadicly open. It has not been completely closed, but it has been open on certain occasions, and then expulsions have been possible. But a prerequisite is, of course, that you get there and can be there at that time. In the rest of Palestine, expulsions are being carried out. So far this year we have had 295 asylum seekers from Palestine. Let's talk about the whole group. 260 of them have been granted a residence permit. Then there are 33 open return cases. The number of completed returns this year is seven. The statistics are not divided into Gaza and the West Bank. So let me say that it is possible to return to Palestine as a country. That is what the courts and the authorities have taken as their starting point. At the same time, I see this situation. We point out that we are going to do a review to see what the situation is like for these people. But the basic line must still be that you should contribute to going back if you have received a rejection. It also allows us to uphold that principle. Should we say anything else, that is to say that we do not have to worry about what rules apply or what the authorities have said or what the courts have said, the legitimacy of our asylum system would be completely destroyed. But, as I say in my interpellation response, we will review the situation of these people and the situation there. But with that I promise nothing, of course, when it comes to the possibilities of staying in Sweden. We will review the situation.
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-210	Madam President, I would like That is about the answer I expect from the Minister. I understand that no precise promises can be made. This is about two things, I think. It is about how to handle things in the Migration Agency and about the political level. We know about the problems. What's troubling is how many people have experienced this. This means that it is not individual cases, but is really about some kind of systematic approach. I have a list here. It's been given to the Minister for Migration, too. I know that. Today there are about 70 names. This is the group that exists in Uppsala. If you go through the list you can see that they actually have the same problem. Either they have to wait a very long time for a decision at all, or they get expulsion decisions that cannot be enforced. It is about the same system that applies to them regardless of where they come from. Now most, almost 99%, are from Gaza. The situation becomes specific when there are so many who come from the same area that are affected by the same thing. In fact, their cases are similar. They could be assessed on the basis of the same template, but they are not. That is where a system error exists in such cases. That is what we need to make a proper review of. I thank you for promising a review, because it is really about that. The parameters that exist are precisely about this. How's the Rafah transition? Maybe it's open two, three, four hours a week. It's a rather narrow time to go through in such cases. There are often queues. And it is just as difficult to get out of Gaza as it is into Gaza. Last time it was Mission review that showed how a Swedish family is stuck and does not come out. There are a number of different parameters that we must actually be able to bring into this. Then it really is in the end that we politicians must somehow guarantee the legal certainty of the treatment of the people who come to Sweden seeking asylum – we are in favour of them doing so and receiving treatment. The worst example is probably the man who has been waiting for almost eight years. I really do find it problematic when you get into the situation time and time again and again. You do everything you have to do. Last night or the day before yesterday, a person was picked up by a police officer, sent to the Egyptian Embassy, turned down a visa and then sent back. How long will he have to wait for the next message? There is one person I write about in the interpellation who has been waiting for a message from the Egyptian Embassy for nine months and who has pointed it out to the Migration Agency but still does not get an answer. Many meetings with administrators are held in February and March. There is somehow a inertia in this and some kind of system error that makes it an endless waiting for nothing. I don't think we can treat people like that, no matter when they come or where they come from. They must be treated in a legally secure manner. There is an example of a man who has submitted his UN ID – he has refugee status, according to the UN. It should have quite a strong impact on how to handle such a person. He's been waiting nine months for a message at all. He has been in Sweden for four years. I can line up examples of examples from the list of how it works. The crux of the matter is how to make the review and which errors are systematic. In individual cases, it may be a matter of making mistakes, but it becomes apparent that many people find themselves in this situation and do not get a trial that is both legal and fair. In the examples I have received in the reply, there is also a basis for what is stated in the Aliens Act, which the Minister for Migration has admitted. That is what should really apply. However, when it does not work, I question the reply from the Minister for Migration that it is a legally secure system. There must be something to be done about the shortcomings of the system itself. That's what I'm after. In the stands are a number of these people. They're desperate. They themselves say: I might as well die here as in Gaza.
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-222	Madam President, I would like Many of these Palestinians have tried to contribute to the expulsion, but they have not been able to implement it. I think it is clear that there is a problem with the Minister's response. In some way, we also need to clarify the time aspect. How long should you have to wait in this situation when rejection cannot be carried out? I understand that Morgan Johansson cannot interfere in individual matters, but, like Mr Torbjörn, I would like to point out the systematic errors that are obviously in this question. In addition to the list of seventy people that Torbjörn has, there is a list of 150 people in Malmö. The question then is: What can the government do? I welcome the review that Morgan announces. I would like to hear a little more about what it means in concrete terms. What are the directives? When will the review be carried out and when is it expected to be completed? I would also urge the government to work more proactively and actually make sure to investigate and produce reports on the situation in Gaza. For example, it is about the possibility of crossing the border at Rafah, which is sometimes open, where students and sick people can pass but also about Egypt's treatment of stateless Palestinians' requests for, for example, transit visas. Reports that the Ministry for Foreign Affairs, the Embassy, the Consulate General in Jerusalem and others should be able to produce should enable the Swedish Government to arrive at a position on the matter. I am convinced that such work will demonstrate the impossibility for the Migration Agency to continue taking decisions on the expulsion of stateless Palestinians to Gaza. We all have a need for fundamental human rights. This also applies to stateless Palestinian refugees. When can we expect the Swedish Government to take the necessary measures to correct the system error that appears to be in the handling?
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-227	Madam President, I would like I have said in my interpellation response that we will carry out such a review. I am not going to go into details now as to what it will be aiming for. However, it is clear that we need to ask for more information on the situation regarding border crossings, but also, of course, on the situation of the people we are talking about here. The fact that it takes a long time in the Migration Agency and that we have to wait for information is perhaps not surprising in the light of the fact that only around 140 000 asylum seekers have arrived so far and that we have well over 100 000 asylum seekers in our asylum systems. The people now coming in will have to wait about two years before their applications will be tested at all. This is the situation in the Migration Agency, because the situation in the outside world is as it is. But, as I said, we will look at the question itself. That is what the paragraph on this review says. The basic principle of politics must still be that if you have been rejected, you should leave the country. You will also contribute to leaving the country. If you have permission to stay, you can simply stay. That must be the basics. But, as I said, we will look at the issue itself in the context of such a review.
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-231	Madam President, I would like I understand, of course, that this is one thing that needs to be dealt with over time. Nevertheless, I note that the Minister for Migration somehow has a positive attitude towards the review. He sees the problem in this. We have to deal with it and do something about it. So we have a group that has been on hunger strike for 23 days. You don't do that as a pleasure or as a game. It's really serious. When it goes that far, it's desperation. It is also a factor that is added to this. I believe that the review and the time aspect, how quickly it is going, are extremely important, not least because the Syrian refugees who are today in Sweden should not end up in the same desperate situation where they do not know where to go. You reject people, and you do everything you can, even though you know they're going back to the hell they were running away from. It is, of course, another factor that must influence how the Migration Board will handle these things in the future. We must have a humane refugee policy. Asylum seekers must be handled in a legally secure manner, and there must be a time aspect, in such cases with sufficient resources for the Migration Agency. A lot is being added now because of the flow of refugees, but I think that perhaps we could have looked at this before, too, precisely with regard to the Palestinians. I know that there are historical examples where amnesty has actually been given in some way. At the end of the 1990s, there were a number of Palestinians – I think it was 250 people – who were all given amnesty and residence permits together in a group, because it was understood that nothing could be done about this. Of course, that is not how things should be handled, but if it gets desperate, I understand that you actually do it, because it is the most humane thing we can do to save these people from a limbo situation.
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-238	Madam President, I would like There's not much more to say. I have said that we will be doing a review to see what the situation is like for these people and whether any sort of solution can be found to the problem. Again: The basic bolt must be that you get a rejection, you should contribute to going home again. If we do not say that, we risk undermining the legitimacy of the system, and it is still quite important to keep on doing so. I do not, of course, anticipate court proceedings and how they assess this situation, but it must be up to the judiciary to do so.
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-241	Madam President, I would like Christina Örnebjär has asked me what I am doing right now and in the long term to prevent children from disappearing. She's also asked me what I'm doing to find missing children. Finally, she has asked me what I am doing to track down children. I share Christina Örnebjär's concern about unaccompanied minors who disappear. Sweden is currently in the most difficult refugee situation in modern times. So far this year, some 123 000 people have applied for asylum in Sweden. Of these, over 30 000 are unaccompanied children. Ninety per cent of them are boys and 10 per cent are girls. It has been noted, among other things, by the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child, that unaccompanied minors disappear during the asylum process in Sweden. It is a problem which also exists in other countries of the European Union. It is, of course, unacceptable for unaccompanied minors to disappear. A well-functioning reception is a fundamental prerequisite for preventing such disappearances. The government has taken a range of measures to facilitate authorities and municipalities to deal with the increasing number of asylum seekers in both the short and long term. Here are some examples: The Agency for Civil Protection and Preparedness (MSB) has been tasked with coordinating at national level the management of the refugee situation by responsible actors. The Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare has been tasked with setting up a response function with the task of answering questions from and providing support to municipalities and social services related to the current refugee situation.
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-247	中 The Health and Welfare Inspection has been tasked with taking measures to strengthen the capacity of the authorities' activities with the examination of permits regarding homes for care or housing – HVB – for children and young people and for the upcoming new form of housing support. In addition, the State Department Board has been tasked with investigating the prerequisites for the Authority to prepare and provide at least 1,000 places in assisted housing and homes for care or housing – HVB – for children and young people. In addition, the Government has decided to set up an investigation to review the reception and residence of asylum seekers and new arrivals and instructions for unaccompanied minors. As examples of other and longer-term measures to strengthen children's rights and protect children from abuse, for example, there is currently an update of the action plan on the protection of children against trafficking in human beings, exploitation and sexual abuse. The government has also begun work to make the Convention on the Rights of the Child into Swedish law. As for measures to find missing children, it is, like other disappearances, a task for the police. The same applies to children who are found or return themselves: In these cases, the social services are responsible for monitoring and ensuring that children receive the support and assistance they need. Finally, I would like to point out that the knowledge of unaccompanied minors who disappear immediately after arriving in Sweden, before they have been registered with the Migration Agency, is inadequate. It is therefore unclear how many children are involved. There is a danger that anecdotal data will be widely disseminated and that wrong conclusions will be drawn. For this reason, it is important to analyse the situation and clarify the facts. I will therefore continue to monitor developments in this area closely and also plan a mission to the appropriate authority to do so.
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-252	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. The reason I asked my questions just to Minister Åsa Regnér is that as Minister for Children she has children's rights issues in her portfolio. In the answer, the Minister addresses the extremely difficult situation in which the world finds itself and which of course affects Sweden. Many people are on the run, and many of them are children. There is no doubt that the problem is acute today. I also share the Minister's view on the importance of not drawing wrong conclusions but of ensuring that we have proper feet before we start talking about things. We simply know how many children disappear because many of them disappear before they are registered. There's a lot to do here. However, the problem, Madam President, is that the disappearance of children is nothing new. Imagine an ordinary classroom with 30 students. Imagine that a student disappears completely without anyone knowing where he has gone. Then imagine that it disappears another, and then imagine that it disappears a little over 300 students. A little over ten classrooms are emptied of students for a year. Wouldn't we wonder, be worried, ask and think about what happened? We were supposed to count on school, police and everyone else to do everything they could to find the children. If we now imagine that all of this happens without it actually happening very much, then the scenario feels a bit like taken from a bad TV series, The Twilight Zone or similar. It's a little too incredible to be a really good movie, but it's more like a B movie with lousy actors. The problem is that it's not a movie, it's something that happens every year. Some of these children disappear more or less voluntarily. Many of them are teenagers. But only in the last three years have nearly 100 children under the age of 12 disappeared. Of them, over 30 were under six years of age. There are almost two preschool departments that have disappeared without anyone knowing where they have gone. I certainly miss the black headlines on the headlines. Some children disappear even before seeking asylum. Others do it later. Because we lack coordination and analysis, we do not really know what it really looks like. We know that some children are sexually abused or exploited by criminals in other ways, but we do not know to what extent. Some disappear because they have been refused their residence permit, but there are also those who disappear when they have been granted a residence permit. Some are found but far from the majority. We need to follow up on those who have disappeared: What have they experienced? What happened? Who's this about? Is there a pattern? A number of years ago, several Chinese children disappeared. At first it looked like isolated events, but when coordinated, it was discovered that it was a group set up in systems to exploit children. I also read about children disappearing on their way to accommodations. Today, we put children on trains and flights without accompanying adults when they are going between one resident and another, between one municipality and another. The question is who takes responsibility there. Located children can easily have their social security secretary in one municipality and live in another. Of course, supervision becomes difficult in many ways. The lack of good men is also a major problem, both because their knowledge is inadequate and because there are simply not enough. In the answer from the Government, I get answers to several questions about the practical, how to solve housing and the like. In many ways, I think it is a good answer to how we should solve parts of the particular emergency situation. Before 2015, 300 children disappeared each year. The Minister said in his reply that it is the social services that are responsible for monitoring and providing support and assistance, but we know that it has not worked so far. The question is how it will work in the future when the situation is even more strained. The update of the action plan is good, but it is precisely an update. The question is whether it is sufficient. I'm not sure. I wonder how the Minister views the issue of responsibility. The municipalities are responsible from day one, but when the children are a hundred miles away I wonder how it will work. Who is responsible for the children who are being put on flights and trains today alone with a note in their hand? Where is the responsibility when the children disappear? Is it with the good man or the social worker?
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-265	Madam President, I would like These are important questions. Perhaps the unaccompanied refugee children are one of the most important things that society has to deal with. There will perhaps 40 000 unaccompanied children to Sweden this year. Some kind of comparison is that about 100 000 children are born in Sweden every year. There's a lot of kids coming here. Earlier today we had a discussion in the Social Affairs Committee on the situation. That is an urgent matter. I felt there that we share the concern and the desire to care for the children. These are principles that mean that children who are in Sweden – asylum seekers or not, who are granted a residence permit – should be treated equally regardless of their background. It is an important and fundamental principle in the work of social services in our country and for a welfare state. Christina Örnebjär points to the disappearance of children. The task I have been given is that until December it is believed that about 200 unaccompanied minors have been reported as departed. Some of them are coming back. If they deviate before registration, it is by nature difficult to know what the situation is. Quite apart, this situation is not satisfactory. Therefore, the government is taking many steps to address the issue at all. I will comment on the missing children in a moment. However, I would like to say that I am proud and pleased that Sweden has taken an enormous responsibility in receiving unaccompanied refugee children. It is untenable for Sweden to take on such a disproportionate share of responsibility in the EU. It is important that more countries also look at the needs of these children and that we get a better distribution of children within the European community. It is also important to take more steps to simply reduce the pressure and influx. I share MSB's view that, among other things, social services are under too much pressure. That in itself is a major problem. Other measures taken in the short term – Christina Örnebjär's questions concern both the long and short term – are that five new municipalities have offered to be municipalities of arrival. It will make things a lot easier. There's a lot of them to do at this point. Right now during the afternoon there are talks between SKL, municipalities and the Migration Agency to arrange some kind of busing of children, especially from Malmö and other arrival municipalities. It is about registering the children and then taking them to a place where it is more possible to keep them under control and receive them in a good way. Right now the children have to wait a long time in Malmö to register, which is not a good situation. I also know that the police have tightened up security. Since the border controls were introduced, far fewer children come to Trelleborg but probably more to Malmö. That's where the police have tightened up security. As I said, I am preparing a mission to the appropriate authority – the Social Board or county boards; it is being discussed – to get a better overview of children who disappear. In the agreement between the government and the four bourgeois parties there are 10 billion, with the majority of the money going to the municipalities and some to voluntary organisations that can make a contribution.
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-273	Madam President, I would like I also share the pride of the great responsibility that Sweden has taken and also the image that more should take responsibility. I just hope that the talk of reducing pressure will not pose problems for the right of asylum. I sincerely hope that we feel the same way about this. I've been talking to those in charge of some of the arrival accommodations. I know that the Minister has done the same. They all say more or less the same thing, and that worries me a little bit. They say that it is not so common for children to disappear, perhaps at some point in the past year. That doesn't sound so bad. The problem is when they say that in many accommodations. All in all, there will be many children. Here I am sure that the Minister and I are in agreement because we have talked about this in the past. Even a child who disappears is one too many. I have students between the ages of 16 and 17 who would not be so happy if I called them children, but they are according to law. When a child, or a youth, disappears from a home, a report is made after 24 hours. It's a little unclear who's going to file a complaint. Some accommodations say that it is the accommodation that should report; on other accommodations it is claimed that it is the good man who should do so. The question of responsibility needs to be investigated there. Then it is up to the police, as the Minister rightly points out. If it had been my nine-year-old who had disappeared, there would have been more headlines and I would have been on it. The question is who lies on because these disappearances often do not count as a crime. This is what worries me. It was headlines once when a nine-year-old disappeared and was found in Malmö. The handling was filmed, and it can be discussed how it happened. He was one of all the people who disappear from accommodations. We need to know why he left the accommodations and what happened. That particular case was highlighted, but not all other cases will be. Here lies the basic problem. The Finnish Immigration Service's website says that it is trying to prevent unaccompanied minors from deviating. Here's a warning bell. Over the last three years, some thirty children under six have disappeared. Children under the age of six do not deviate. Is the system we have today sufficient? Is it being done enough to find the children that are disappearing?
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-278	Madam President, I would like I perceive that there is an awareness of the issues out there in the municipalities. It is the municipalities that are responsible. Then, for example, Ivo has the responsibility to follow up housing forms, and the good man has his role. But it is the municipalities that are responsible when a child is assigned to a municipality. Many municipalities do a good job in the strained situation. It's important for me to say that. But the situation at large is very strained. Among other things, the Swedish Civil Protection Agency has reported on this. Nevertheless, you cannot wait until everything is perfect, but you have to work on these issues right away. That is why the government is taking a number of measures that I have outlined here. There may be reason to do even more, but I think that we have been active in taking measures both to tackle the large influx of children and to try to see individual problems. This is a big problem. I fully agree with that. The Government has put proposals on the Riksdag table on assisted housing. When I visit social services and, above all, HVB homes, the current form of living, I think that the staff at these accommodations show that they are keen to take care of and care for the children. But the accommodations are heavily burdened and have difficulty finding staff. The children I have talked to at the accommodations are largely purposeful individuals, and many of them are highly motivated. But they find themselves in a difficult situation, and they have ideas about how things should be while they probably have little knowledge of how Sweden works and can probably be fooled, co-locked or frightened to do things that are not good for themselves. The responsibility lies with society at different levels. The municipality has direct responsibility for the child. Christina Örnebjär talked about her children, and I also have two children. I have a girl who's 14 and a boy who's 12. It is easy to identify with the pressures that the children have experienced. It is hard to imagine the flight they probably have behind them and what it does to a child. I see society as the parents of these children, because their parents can't take that responsibility right now. That is why I come back to this that I am very happy that Sweden is a generous and open country that is there when these children need it. But we must have a commitment that we can actually live up to. We're working on that too. I am thinking, above all, of measures that exist in the area of the Minister for Migration rather than mine, but it is a matter of keeping the whole together. I am not prepared to lower the threshold in social services, as there are also proposals, but I think that social services really should have a high level of children's rights. It is there for the most vulnerable children, and these children belong to that group. We must then be careful about our responsibilities.
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-286	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that the Government does not want to lower the thresholds. We are also in complete agreement there. I believe that one of the problems many times is the lack of information and knowledge about children and those who are supposed to inform. We know that many of those who deviate do so when they have received a refusal. They don't even know they can appeal. I think we need to review the good man's system. I know that the question is not on the Minister's table, but, as a government representative, she still has a coherent responsibility, especially with regard to children's rights. The training of good men needs to be reviewed. It's different across the country. We also need to review recruitment. This is a completely different type of mission than being a good man to others. Now we see what it looks like, that many are good men for a lot of children. There are children who are allowed to fly and ride trains across the country. They may one day have to travel with staff from the Migration Agency to a living place and the other day go to the Migration Agency and so on. This could be facilitated by mobile teams, for example, because, from a child's perspective, it is better for adults to move around than for children to do so. I think that would make the children feel better and that perhaps to a lesser extent they would deviate. We obviously share our view here, and I am pleased about that. The issue of liability needs to be investigated. Above all, it needs to be clear where the responsibility lies, who is responsible, who is to report, who is to follow up and who is to take responsibility when the children come back. Even if it is with social services, it must still be this person who has that responsibility. I am also looking forward to the mission that the Minister intends to give. Above all, we must take responsibility for the children we have chosen to care for and to whom we are parents. Thank you for your answer.
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-293	Mr President, I would like to This is an issue that we will follow, and I am sure we will continue to have a dialogue on it. I would like to mention another assignment that we have given to the National Board of Health and Welfare, which is about recruiting, informing and educating family homes. It also includes good men. My picture is that the supply of good men is very uneven over the country. In some municipalities it is difficult to find good men, while in other municipalities instead there is queue because you do not have time to investigate and take care of those who would like to be good men. A good man is undoubtedly an important person for these children. The longer you live without being registered, the longer you can also spend without having a good man. The longer registration periods in the municipalities of arrival, not least in Malmö where I was last week, is probably also a scourge because many are rooting out. Five weeks is a long time for a child who has not been registered, and many times you do not want to move after the five weeks. You can't keep track of that time. In Malmö they told me that it sometimes happens that children run back to Malmö from the k ommun man finally came to after they have been registered. There are many bottlenecks we need to overcome in order to have a more coherent system. Then it is the responsibility of all those in decision-making positions who come into contact with children who are in harm's way or who are made aware of it, just as with all other children. That's what you're supposed to do. This also applies to these children. They're like any other kid.
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-298	Mr President, I would like to Niklas Wykman has asked the Minister of Finance how she sees the increase in costs for the elderly of Sweden proposed in the Government's budget bill and whether she does not think it is a real priority to pay special housing and home care for them with tax funds. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. Health care and care for the elderly are largely financed by taxes, and this should also be the case in the future. Those who, as of 1 July 2016, may have to pay a higher fee than today are those who have income above the highest rate currently in force. Those with less toll space will continue to be protected by the provisions on reserve amounts. The picture also includes that the level of fee financing through home care fees has decreased over the years. The proposed change partially restores that level of funding. The Government is responsible for meeting the tough challenges that Sweden is currently facing. This should be done at the same time as important social reforms are being implemented. This means that possible contributions to funding must be tested very carefully. The government has therefore decided to present this proposal, which means an increase in revenue for the state by SEK 148 million per full year. The government is carrying out a number of reforms affecting older people. An effort is being made to increase staffing in the care of the elderly. It costs SEK 2,000 million per year during 2016 – 2018. During 2016, an increase in skills at a cost of SEK 200 million will be carried out. The tax on pensioners is reduced so that pensioners do not pay higher taxes than wage and salary earners under the age of 65 on income up to approximately SEK 120 000 per year. From 2017, the Government intends to introduce free outpatient care for people aged 85 or over. From 1 September 2015, the housing supplement has improved by up to SEK 100 per month, and the highest possible housing supplement is now SEK 5 090 per month.
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-304	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I am humbled by and understand very much that it is not easy to be a union minister in a government that is on the verge of losing control of public finances. The last day before yesterday, we heard the Minister of Finance tell us that you should borrow large amounts of money. There is no permanent funding for this. No proposals were put forward on how to get back on track to surplus or budgetary balance. It is also very unclear where the directives in the government are based. I understand that what union ministers can be difficult to know is whether it is with the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Enterprise or with whom to negotiate the money. What we are now seeing from the Minister is a great lack of commitment to what the Social Democrats have pointed out in the election movement. There we were talking about big bets on seniors. There was talk of them getting better terms, more money to move around with and so on. When the budget was then presented, we were able to see that this was not the case. Even if the government tried to withhold it, figures came out from the Ministry of Finance. Eight out of ten households would now be worse off. More surprising than getting worse with this government were the 80,000 pensioner households that were now to suffer a higher domestic tax. It goes without saying that I wonder and ask the Minister: where could these 80 000 households take part in this before the elections? By then they had only been promised a tax cut, a tax cut that turned out to be completely eaten up by a tax increase for people over 65 years of age, when the tax increase for those who remain in the labour force is equal to the tax cut on pensions. This is a breach of promise and a very worrying development we are now seeing for the seniors in Sweden, for whom the Minister is still responsible, although she may be more of a face than the body itself in the problem. After the alliance government's major investment in seniors in Sweden, an average pensioner has retained approximately SEK 850 more per month. Disposable income grew by about 20 per cent. Instead, they are now faced with what is at risk of major deterioration when the state's economy does not go together and there is no plan for public finances. It is soon 2016, but still has no coherent policy that you understand how it will go together presented for next year. Then, of course, the people who depend on strong public finances and a well-managed society worry about pensions and security after many good years, given the difficult situation that was. Mr President, I would like to Let me repeat my question to the Minister: where could the 80 000 households that are now suffering read about this before the elections? Where did Åsa Regnér or other government ministers inform these households that these deteriorations were waiting?
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-312	Mr President, I would like to I thank Niklas Wykman for his initial concern. Let me make a recommendation. If Niklas Wykman wishes to have a debate with the Minister for Finance on issues relating to the Finance Minister's basic area, I suggest that he formulates questions relating to her area. I'd be happy to tell you what we're doing in the elderly care area. We are allocating 2 billion to staffing in the care of the elderly. You have about half of it. Is there anything we know about elderly care as it looks today in terms of quality and what the elderly appreciate, it is that there is time, that there are skilled staff and that there are people around you that you trust, which makes you eat better, fall less, take the right medicine and so on. We spend almost twice as much as you do on care for the elderly. It's not a betrayal. It's a great bet. I think that the municipalities and the elderly also agree with this because almost 1 billion have already been paid out since the turn of the year. So it was obviously a welcome addition. I can reassure Niklas Wykman that we are making many more bets on the elderly. For example, we have investment aid for retirement homes. We also have special support for people with dementia. We will also start a case prevention work, which is an important everyday issue for the elderly. Next year, we will also make a competence effort for staff in elderly care of 200 million who focus on these issues. In addition, we have set up a Quality Commission to keep the focus on the quality of care for the elderly in the future. To follow these questions that I am very committed to, I personally make a trip through Sweden to study various interesting examples of how the quality of care for the elderly can be improved. We are making a big investment in elderly care, Niklas Wykman. You've got about half.
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-318	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that the Minister for the Elderly is travelling, but that is no excuse for being on a bicycle. I assume that all the ministers in the government feel responsible for the economy in their areas and that it is not a specific issue just for the Minister of Finance to ensure that the economy in each area of expenditure goes together. As Åsa Regnér knows, the interpellation is originally addressed to the Minister for Finance, but the government has chosen to proceed in the way that Åsa Regnér answers it. It is something remarkable that the Minister calls an increase in household expenditure of around 150 million, that is, 80 000 households have to pay 150 million more for their elderly care, an investment in elderly care. To some extent it is, because more money is coming in. But it is hardly an effort on the elderly in Sweden, because it is they themselves who have to pay for it. There was a lot of criticism from the Social Democrats about the fact that pensioners in the last parliamentary term and during the period of the Alliance's entire reign received great reinforcements in their economy. An average pensioner received SEK 850 in tax reduction each month, and a guarantee pension is about SEK 750. All households eligible for housing allowance received SEK 340 more a month. Now the government chooses to make a large number of pensioners receiving about SEK 50 more in tax reduction each month. However, it is forgotten to tell us that it is eaten up entirely by the increase in spending on the elderly, including by the increase in home service fees and by making it more expensive to remain in the labour force. To push the elderly out of the labour force, as the government does, we know that there is less health and, in many cases, less quality of life. It can even mean more diseases and reduced life expectancy when the same opportunity to remain in the labour force as before is no longer provided. In addition to the direct deterioration that the Minister is going through, the fact that 80 000 pensioner households are receiving higher home-care rates and that for many people it is becoming more expensive and more difficult to stay in work, there are a lot of indirect effects that are not accurately explained. Mr President, I would like to My question to the Minister is the same, and I would like a clear answer to that. Where did Åsa Regnér or the Social Democrats report before the election that 80 000 pensioners' households would receive higher home care contributions? Where in the open and transparent democracy that Sweden wants to be could you assimilate this information?
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-326	Mr President, I would like to We reported that we would make a substantial effort on both elderly and elderly care, and we have indeed done so. The total investment in elderly and elderly care is 4 billion. It is not only about the 2 billion and the other investments in my area that I talked about, but also about increased pensions, increased housing allowances and tax cuts. Our calculations at the Ministry of Social Affairs show that about 15 000 of the 310 000 who have care for the elderly will be financially affected by the increased maximum rate. It's a small group, but I'd be happy to admit it exists. However, these 15 000 people receive on average a rather small increase. We spend a total of SEK 4 billion a year on older people. My efforts have just been described, and they will strengthen the quality of life of older people, elderly care and the situation of older people in Sweden at all and the opportunity for them to make good choices for themselves. That is also what pensioners' organisations say when we talk to them about the overall effort. There are criticisms of the total savings of 148 million – to be set against the investment of 4 billion – but it affects a very small proportion of pensioners. When the maximum rate of care for the elderly was introduced, it accounted for 5% of the funding of care for the elderly. It has then fallen to less than 4%, but with this change we will bring up to about 5% again. That's another reason to raise it. All in all, we make large and quality-based investments in elderly care, which are in great demand and which we see in different ways that Sweden's pensioners want.
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-332	Mr President, I would like to When seniors and young people hear a minister talk about efforts, they may think that this is about improvements. However, when the Minister calls for new expenditure and increased costs for households for investments, there is a risk that this will lead to some errors. We heard the Minister talking about pension increases. The Minister knows that it is outside the state budget and within the framework of the pension system and how it works. We are getting better pensions because, thanks to the Alliance's reforms, more people have entered the labour market. Among other things, we broke the madness and exclusion that existed in that one in ten persons of working age in Sweden was pre-retired in 2006. The fact that it has been broken and has led to the successful development of the pension system is not something that the current government can beat itself to the chest. On the contrary, the Minister continues on this theme and forgets that taxes are being increased by 1.7 billion for those over 65 who remain in work or do extra work to improve the economy and health. It is desirable for the Minister to be clear in this area, because many seniors I meet are very concerned. But they are also refined and have been there before. When they hear a government that does not control expenditure ceilings and public finances and is losing its grip on public spending, they know that a more bleak future awaits. Then it does not help the Minister to talk about increased costs for these households as substantial investments, because it is not.
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-336	Mr President, I would like to We stand here because you have set an interpellation, Niklas Wykman. I think this is an important area, and I am happy to tell you about the investments we make. Swedish pensioners and their organisations, which I often meet, are very pleased with the initiatives. They also criticise the saving of 148 million, but they see that it is significantly less than 4 billion. The talks we have are about how we can make good use of the situation, and they see that Sweden's pensioners benefit. The recent open comparison, which measures how people with care for the elderly appreciate this care, shows that the vast majority of people think it is good. Then there is much to improve, and that is why we have taken several measures. That is also why we have a Quality Commission – to see how to further improve care for the elderly in the future. Your posts, Niklas Wykman, are very much about the sad fact that women in Sweden have significantly worse economics than men. In the country your government left behind, women have about 60% of men's pensions. It is very sad, and this is partly due to the fact that women have significantly lower incomes. Gender equality policy, which also falls within my area, has been evaluated, and it has been seen that women's income has not improved very much in relation to men's during the time that Niklas Wykman's party had government power. It's a huge problem. That is why we decide, for example, on a third month of weight in parental insurance and other measures which, in the long run, allow women and men to distribute paid and unpaid work better so that we get away from poor pensioners, where women dominate enormously. It is a question of doing things in different areas, and we will do the same.
i-2tKTFAqrJuisshz7kKLF8Y	Mr President, I would like to The Social Insurance Agency has submitted amendments to the Regulation on the grounds that the Authority intends to introduce post-payments of assistance payments with an increased amount. In view of this, Bengt Eliasson has asked me whether I see any gains with such a change of rules, whether I see any risks with the proposed change of rules and whether I intend to pursue the proposal. I have recently answered a question on the same subject. The answer shows that the payment of the assistance allowance must be the general rule according to the law, but that Försäkringskassan has to pay the compensation provisionally in advance. What is now going on and what is behind Försäkringskassan's request for amendments to regulations is part of a process that has been going on for a long time to make late payments instead of advance payments the general rule. The aim is to ensure better control and a more legally secure management of assistance payments. The initiative comes from the Borg government. I think that we need better control of the costs of assistance payments. In this context, I would like to point out that the most common thing in our welfare systems is to receive ex-post benefits. The law does not exempt those who have been granted increased compensation from post-payment. It is therefore important that the law can be applied in an equivalent way to those who have post-payments compared to those who have advance payments. If a change of regulation is needed in order for this to be possible, I see a gain in remedying it. In this context, Bengt Eliasson also raises the issue of monthly settlements and settlements of costs in the interpellation. This has nothing to do with the changes in the rules that the Social Insurance Agency has now produced. I would like to emphasise that, should the government decide to amend the regulation, the provision of the Social Security Code still applies to the granting of assistance allowance for a certain number of hours per week, month or longer, but not more than six months. As a rule, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency currently applies six months regardless of whether or not the beneficiary of the assistance has increased compensation. This means that the person entitled to assistance can continue to have available the number of hours granted for six months or the time decided by the Social Insurance Agency.
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-352	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its answer. I have respect and understanding that the Government can feel that it feels repetitive to have to answer similar questions on the same subject, time and again. But it can also be seen as an important issue. However, I have less sympathy for the fact that the Government sees the whole issue of changes to regulations in the area in question as a technical change that would not affect people's opportunities. The issue of monthly cost settlements is highly relevant as it is a consequence of the Social Insurance Fund's proposal for a regulation amendment. It has nothing to do with the fact that hours can still be allocated over the granting period. The Social Insurance Agency has proposed an amendment to the Regulation which allows for postpayment also of increased hourly amounts. The amendment will allow the Swedish Social Insurance Agency to draw up new rules on payment and settlement procedures. The Swedish Social Insurance Agency describes very clearly in the proposal to the government how it intends to handle the settlement of increased amounts, namely through monthly cost accounting. If the Government decides according to Försäkringskassan's proposal, this means that the settlement procedure for increased amounts is amended in this way. It would hit people with the greatest needs very hard. In its reply, the Government refers to the Government's intention to achieve cost control and legal certainty. That the government wants to stop economic crime in welfare is naturally great and something that we iberals have worked with for a long time. All criminality must be vehemently prosecuted. It is a question of confidence in our common welfare system. Tax revenue should go to what it is intended for. Every case of cheating undermines confidence in all the players in the industry, even the serious ones. In addition, this ultimately affects the people in need of action and support. I wonder what kind of flaws the Government is referring to. According to Försäkringskassan and other authorities, the measures taken over the years against this have had a major impact. According to the agency's own report to its user council, over-exploitation is now far below 1%. Then the natural question becomes: What is out of control? What's not legal? There is an unfortunate tradition of exaggerating the extent of cheating and losing proportions in the rhetoric of cheating, lack of cost control and legal uncertainty in the systems. It has to be borne in mind that as early as 1994 there were drug myths. Perhaps some irregularities remain in the industry, but the efforts of the police, the prosecutors and the Social Insurance Agency should reasonably have had a major impact on the crime in the field of assistance. What's out of control? What's legal uncertainty?
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-363	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Bengt Eliasson, for your commitment to the issue! I can see you're involved. It is a question of rights, and it is a law of rights. It is a very fine piece of legislation in the sense that it has improved the lives of people who would otherwise have been referred to being dependent on others and not participating in society in the way that can be done with personal assistance. I didn't actually say the word cheating, but of course you should always prosecute it. I would like to explain why this issue is urgent, and then I will go up a little bit. I saw today that Bengt Eliasson has written an article in Dagens Samhälle with the title I absolutely agree with that. That is where the bigger issue is raised. From 2006 until last year, the cost of this reform doubled and is now up to about 30 billion. But the increase was only 2 000 more people – that is, over 2 000 people but a cost of 15 billion. At least it raises questions at my place. The entire reform covers more than 16 000 people, and the cost is 30 billion. I think that this legislation and this reform are extremely important. But I think it is equally important that those who have rights are those who get the resources of society, because in a decent society we should provide support if necessary, and then money should not be able to disappear elsewhere. I would therefore like to review the legislation to see how this can happen. In that review, I would also like to take into account the fact that the most common point I get from the disability movement is that the allocation of assistance has become more cheap. People have lost assistance, they mean, or the hours are too few. At the same time, we are seeing this trend in costs. Something's not right here. I'm saying it. And I think I have a great responsibility for the good use of taxpayers' money. Other comments I get from the disability movement include: Why do men have more assistance than women? Some people think it's great that family members can be personal assistants. Others feel that it creates a great dependence. Some people think it's great with double heads. Others think it should be just one. There are several questions. You say they've been investigated several times. That's right. In fact, however, not much action has been taken by the Alliance under the previous government, at least not that has affected the questions I am asking. That is why, together with representatives of the disability movement, I would like to conduct such an investigation. I want this money to come to those who are entitled to it.
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-374	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. We fully agree with the forthcoming legislative review. I personally and my party have been pushing for years for us to need a new holistic approach and need to review the legislation, which now has some 30 years on its back. But it is basically a very good and unique piece of legislation, which makes many people more involved according to their conditions in society. However, there is a problem when you have a very economic approach to legislation, when you link apparently purely practical changes in regulation with reasoning on cost control, legal uncertainty and so on. What, then, are the routines today? In fact, the system of increased amounts, which is the matter of interpellation, works in such a way that the compensation is paid in advance and is then shown in a final statement every six months. The cost of assistance can be eliminated throughout the period of six months, which means that the eligible person can have high costs one month and low costs another, i.e. have the opportunity to vary in his life, in the same way as I imagine that the Government as I have very different times, habits and chores seen over all 365 days of the year. It's the human perspective. In the practical entrepreneurial perspective, the proposal from the Swedish Social Insurance Agency means that if the change is implemented, it may be that only public operators who have the entire tax collective behind them or the very large companies with significant resources have the opportunity to act as assistance providers for people with the greatest needs. It is a risk that is serious from the point of view of users and their ability to choose freely. The Social Insurance Agency proposes a change to the rules and will then require the cost statement to be submitted monthly after each month, when assistance has been provided, and calculated on the hour spent in the month. The Social Insurance Agency is also very clear in the proposal that this change will mean that the insured person will receive a lower hourly amount than if the cost statement, which today had been submitted at the end of the period, i.e. after six months – all according to the letter submitted by the Social Insurance Agency itself. This is what makes me very worried. Subsequent payment for the small group with an increased amount cannot be made without a change of regulation, according to Försäkringskassan. Does the Government not think, then, that it is reasonable to postpone the introduction of post-payments for this particular small group? This is in fact the case for those eligible for assistance who have the greatest needs. The increased amount already means an exact restatement – I have seen the forms – of every penny that has been used in the assistance. Pending a better system for allocating personal assistance resources, these people need to be protected from additional savings beyond those already in place. This is serious, and I strongly appeal to the Government to reconsider whether to exclude this small group.
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-382	Mr President, I would like to I know the group and the great needs very well. It is among other things the Association I have debated the issue. I have attended seminars and met them, and they have also written on this issue, and I understand their situation. I think we need to be able to talk about economics in connection with this issue, when the reality is as it is. I think it is irresponsible not to do so. I know that many people find it difficult to raise the issue, because sometimes there is suspicion, which I do not think has happened in this debate, because it is very serious. But I think it is urgent to keep track of how the money is spent and – again – to ensure that they actually benefit the groups we are discussing. The Social Insurance Agency makes its own decisions and does analyses that I should not interfere with. They believe that it is reasonable to put this reform on an equal footing with other systems where payments are made in arrears. Then it is the government that must make the change that we have talked about. As I said, I am concerned about individual needs, because that is what the legislation is for, but also about sustainability and legitimacy at all for this reform. I feel that it is difficult to look at this development without asking these questions and trying to take action to slow down a development that might risk the whole system in the future. I have a dialogue with, among other things, I. I last had a meeting with representatives of the disability movement two days ago and discussed it. I think they have a very wise speech on the whole. But I share the view that you should see individuals. I think I've explained how I see it.
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-388	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, once again, Minister. I fully agree: we must, of course, be able to talk about economics. But we need to talk about more, not just economics, because that's when it gets dangerous. The amendments to the regulation are the government's decision, and now there is the possibility of making exceptions in it as well. I've been thinking about a calculation example. If we assume that the increased amount on average is SEK 15 per hour per person – it should be there somewhere – taking the times the average number of hours per aid beneficiary and year, which is about 6,500, and then, of course, times the number of aid beneficiaries who have increased amounts, which is 1,500, then we get 147 million. That is, of course, a lot of money. In this context, however, 147 million — if my math from school is enough — are about 5 per mil of the 28 - 30 billion that is the approximate annual cost of the assistance allowance. It is 5 per mille that is guaranteed to go to personal assistance for those with the greatest needs. I can only appeal once again: if the government is to save, redistribute and reduce expenditure, the government should look for other money than the 5 per mille that goes to the most needy.
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-392	Mr President, I would like to I thank Bengt Eliasson for this dialogue. In your article, which I have read well as you hear, you also propose a meeting with political parties on this issue. I foresee that, in the run-up to and during the review of the LSS, we will have good cooperation and a good dialogue with representatives of parties. The Liberals, in particular, have been the driving force behind this reform. I am happy to continue this discussion and thank you for this debate.
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-394	Mr President, I would like to Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng has asked me what plans I have to improve care for the elderly in our country. He has also asked me how I meet the demographic trend, so we are getting more and more older and where more and more people live longer. The increase in the proportion of older people in the population is well known and is sometimes presented as a problem for the financing of welfare. Living longer is not a problem; it is a joyful development. However, while the proportion of older people is increasing, the proportion that will be responsible for the financing of welfare is reduced. This places demands on the organisation and priorities of welfare. Health care and care for older women and men are a central part of welfare policy and affect many people. It is essential that women and men with a need for care have access to fair, equal and equal care wherever they live in the country. Good quality, competence, equal treatment and legal certainty shall characterise the support offered to the individual. The Government's ageing policy aims to ensure that these commitments are respected and have an impact on legislation and other public commitments. Efforts have been made, and the government intends to make efforts in a number of areas for older women and men. The government wants to develop new goals and a new direction for older people's policy. The Government has set up an investigation into a national quality plan for elderly care. The aim is to ensure the long-term development of good quality in the future care of the elderly. Older women and men in need of care should be able to trust that it is of good quality and that there are sufficient staff with appropriate training and experience to perform it. Manning is a key factor affecting quality. In the 2016 budget, the Government allocates SEK 2 billion per year during the period 2016 – 2018 for increased staffing within elderly care. An important factor for good quality in care for the elderly, but also for good working conditions, is the ability of staff to develop their skills. The Government intends to allocate SEK 200 million for 2016 to a knowledge initiative for staff in activities in the field of older and disabled people. The existence of good housing for the elderly is an important issue in order to cope with demographic change. A place in special accommodation is central to those who need it. But there also needs to be adequate housing in the ordinary housing market to ensure the different needs of older people. The Government therefore intends to introduce a new investment aid. The support will stimulate the reconstruction and new construction of special housing and housing in the ordinary housing market aimed at people over 65 years of age. Dementia has a major impact on the sufferer, the family members and the whole of society. There is a need for coordination and structured development work between all actors. The Government intends to provide funds for mapping work as a basis for building a long-term, targeted and coordinated work in the field of dementia. Fall accidents are the type of accidents leading to the highest number of deaths and hospitalisations. The social costs of falls in 2012 amounted to SEK 24.6 billion. Knowledge of how falls can be prevented or reduced among older people needs to be better disseminated. The Government intends to provide funds for the prevention of falls for 2016. In conclusion, I would like to say that work on the care of the elderly in the future must be done in close interaction with those concerned – the elderly themselves, relatives, staff and decision-makers. I have therefore visited and will visit municipalities during the autumn and next spring. The purpose of the visits is to conduct a dialogue on the government's older people's policy, listen and get views in order to get a picture of the situation in elderly care. The visits I have made so far have been very rewarding and inspiring. There is a great deal of commitment and know-how that gives me important knowledge to be involved in the continued work.
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-404	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by thanking you for your answer. I do not need to repeat that this issue is very important for the service of the elderly to function well. It does so in many places in our country. We humans often work so that we are inspired considerably more by positive examples to change behaviours than by someone pointing out that we are doing wrong or that we have poor quality. In the latter case, we often go into a defensive position, and nothing happens. Therefore, one can actually see some common denominators in the municipalities where it works well. It is usually a good management that has a clear vision for the business. They often try to have a trained and competent staff who also receive adequate further training. There is also freedom of choice for the elderly and their relatives. They can choose what they want, or, perhaps more importantly, opt out of poor quality – what LOV, for example, offers. This choice can be about choosing between municipal and individual health care companies or only municipal activities. I think it is important that more municipalities take advantage of these experiences in order to improve quality. Now I come to the really sad thing about it, namely that there are unfortunately a number of municipalities in our country that do not come up with acceptable quality. There are shortcomings in several areas. The elderly have little or no influence over care. They don't have any options when it comes to food. They have untrained staff. Sometimes, according to the saying, the staff can come in from the street. You don't follow up on any flaws that come out. Drug lists or treatments are not followed up to achieve the best quality. It is therefore with sadness that I note that the older investigation set up by the previous government was closed down a year ago. I know there was a new one in June.
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-411	If a municipality misbehaves care – such as home care in Gothenburg, according to the commission review, or a 94-year-old who got hurt in Linköping and who was refused a place in a special accommodation so that the municipality would save money – how should we do so that this should not go unnoticed? Finally, but not least: I tend to work on, among other things, pension issues, and I can see that we now have a very large generation of 40s ahead of us that is beginning to come up in the years. Then the ailments begin to become clear. That's what happens to all of us when we get over 80 years of age. What plans does the government have to face these issues? Is it the investigation launched in June that will provide answers to these questions?
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-413	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister and Lars-Arne Staxäng for a very important debate on the elderly care of the future, or on what we actually have now and what it should look like in the future. I would like to dwell on a part of the Minister's reply. This is the last part, where the Minister said: a final point, I would like to say that the work on the care of the elderly in the future must be done in close interaction with those affected – the elderly themselves, the relatives, the staff and the decision-makers. ..................................................... That is excellent, but when you have that ambition you also have to think of politics as a whole. For my part, I see it as talking with a split tongue. When you roll back and restrict, for example, the RUT reform, it is not to listen to users, i.e. the elderly themselves, or to the women who have started the RUT companies. If you are to have this as an ambition, it is about starting from the individual's needs and having the individual in focus. It is also about being able to find solutions for each of our older people. That is why I have a question I would like to ask the Minister directly. Does the Minister want elderly care to be carried out by actors other than the municipalities? I would like a very simple yes or no to that question. We were in the speaker's seats, the Minister and I, in the same kind of debate about three months ago. Outside this house, this is an important issue, and since the Minister is out there a lot visiting various activities, there is concern among the elderly about what is going to happen in the future. The proportion of older people is increasing, and we are growing in Sweden. We are a country that is growing a lot, and then the resources of welfare must also be sufficient. During that debate, we talked, among other things, about shelters. It is also something I thought of when I heard what the Minister said about all these challenges making demands on the organisation and priorities of welfare. The security housing reform, carried out by the Alliance and which gave impetus to shelters in Sweden, enabled those who have home care – those who are not yet so frail and poor that they had to live in a particular housing – to move from the villa to a shelter where there are other elderly people. There are also certain activities and requirements for there to be at least one person holding together activities and shelter. Then the government takes away the money for specific shelters. But if more people who have home help can live together, it must provide efficiency and savings, because the home service today spends a lot of time sitting in cars and driving around. So I see shelters as a much bigger thing than a new way of living for the elderly, based on exactly what the Minister says about demands on the organisation and priorities of welfare. That is why my question is also. Even if you invest in housing, as the Minister says in his reply and as I know from the budget, it is precisely this issue of shelters that has been left out there. We began to see in rural areas, in smaller municipalities, that it took off. They dared to build shelters. It is a very good intermediate between your own villa or apartment and a special accommodation. So there are some specific questions I would like the Minister to answer.
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-423	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lars-Lars-Arne and Lotta! I hope I'm doing the debate right now– I'm trying to remember where we interrupted this important conversation. During the debate and perhaps also during the break, the reception of refugees has been discussed. The government has put forward a number of proposals for a breathing space, on restrictions on the reception of refugees. It is with a heavy heart that we do, but we think it is responsible at this point. Why do I say this in relation to this debate? Speaking of the issues that we are debating – quality in care for the elderly, human resources and stability – I think it is important that we invest well in everyone in Sweden so that we have a proper participation rate for women and men and that we also take advantage of people, both women and men, who want to work in the care of the elderly. There comes a responsible reception and integration of refugees. It is something that I think is important for a country like Sweden in the future and also a great asset for us. Lars-Lars-Arne asked questions about what will fix elderly care in the future and how we see it. Of course, we believe that the investments we have in staffing in care for the elderly, funds to stimulate investment in retirement homes and funds for skills development are a basis for good care for the elderly in the future. That is a real effort during the term of office. There has never before been so much government funding spent on staffing in the care of the elderly that we are investing now. Obviously, that bet is welcome. One way to measure this is to look at this year's disbursements of funds. The funds have gone out well, i.e. there was a great demand. I think it is a gauge that this was a requested reform. The investigation that we have set up and which Lars-Lars-Arne mentioned addresses a number of future issues. On the basis that we are now laying down, where many of the issues that the Alliance usually points to in its proposals are also dealt with, we are focusing on staffing. We spend 2 billion a year on that. Together with the focus of this investigation, we lay this foundation, which is higher quality and increased efficiency in care for the elderly, better prevention and rehabilitation, where the needs of the elderly should be at the centre, security of staff supply and review of specific forms of housing, which Lotta talks about, in different ways. There is investment aid, as she also pointed out. We are looking at more flexible forms of decision-making on elderly care and the use of welfare technology. These are issues that this investigation raises and which we believe are strategic for the future. As I said, Lotta takes up investments in shelters. The funds I have just mentioned can simply be used to invest in housing for the elderly. As far as RUT is concerned, those who have turned 65 can still make RUT deductions for 50 000 per year and per person.
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-432	Madam President, I would like I will try to comment and also try to answer and ask questions about the points raised by Minister Regnér in his reply to me. First, there will be more older people. We all know that. We fully agree on that. That's one of the reasons I've put this interpellation. In this situation, I find it strange that the government is introducing increases in special wage taxes and a lot of other taxes, which will of course reduce the labour supply of older people. It becomes less profitable to keep working and so on. If there is one thing we can agree that we need in the future, there are more hours worked, not least by the elderly, if we are to pass this equation. Secondly, care of the elderly is a fundamental and central part of welfare policy. That's where we're in complete agreement. I note that you use words as fair, equal and equal. I agree with all those words. However, I think there is something missing, which I have mentioned in some place: high quality. The issue of quality is extremely important. It is also the opportunity for older people to influence. It's completely missing. Freedom of choice is very important – that those in need of care and their relatives have the right to choose one or the other. There is nothing about the influence of older people in the answer. The government seems to be giving priority to freedom of choice. With regard to the new direction of older people's policy, I still think – we have even intervened about it in the past – that it was wrong to close the Elderly's investigation. Will there be any implementation at all during this term of office? I asked the question because a new investigation was set up in June, which is apparently due to give an answer until 2017 if I am not completely misinformed. Before this can be converted into a bill, everyone knows that it usually takes a year. So this entire term of office will have time to go before it all becomes a workshop. There is also a lack of important aspects: meals in care and increased freedom of choice, as I mentioned earlier. As far as staffing is concerned, I agree that it is important. But it's not just about new staff. If new staff are not trained and competent or are to work in an organisation, a structure that does not work from the beginning, quality will not increase. Older people find it particularly important to meet the same staff that they feel safe with and trust – something that the government's staff investment will not solve. I think the government puts quantity before quality. I know that there is a proposal on skills development, but in the proposal it is a one-year one. If you really meant something about this, it would be continuous, year after year. Then I wouldn't have asked the second question. The government has abolished investment support for shelters. It was a bad decision. Today there is a shortage of places in special housing in half of the country's municipalities – half! The severely ill elderly are forced to remain at home with relatives against their will. The aid is EUR 150 million in 2016 and EUR 400 million in 2018. The fact that fragile elderly people are forced to live at home is also remarkable, since all those with care needs that cannot be met in their own home are entitled to special housing according to the Social Services Act. What will the government do to ensure compliance with the law?
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-444	Madam President, I would like I would like to focus on the word 'fair', which the Minister and the Government often talk about. What does that mean for the government? I ask because the funds that will now be provided, which are in the government budget, are intended to be strengthened in the care of the elderly. Earlier in this House, when I asked the Minister how they were to be distributed, I was told that each municipality, as the principal, had to decide how these funds should be distributed in the municipality. The question is also fair that the elderly living in private housing, or alternatively driven housing, may lose out on the reinforcement money because it is politically felt that it is only municipally driven housing that should be strengthened in terms of quality. It is very good that the money is added, absolutely, but there is a discrepancy between what the government says, that it is important that the funds are distributed fairly, and that it is up to the municipalities how they do it. I defend local self-government, but there is a clear risk that the money will not benefit every pensioner who needs it.
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-448	Equivalent is also a word that the government often uses. What does that mean? This may mean that only municipal residents should be equal across the country. What does it look like? The elderly who live in an alternative, driven dwelling have also paid taxes during their active time. Fair and equal are words that I would like the Minister to comment on.
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-449	Madam President, I would like I appreciate this debate and others that we have had, because I know that they are driven by genuine commitment to the lives of the elderly. At the same time, I'm a little puzzled. For the government allocates twice as much to the elderly care area as the Moderates, and for me it does not really make sense. This is a big investment in staffing in care for the elderly, the biggest ever. We know that with more time and with more staff you can meet important needs that are addressed here, such as peace and quiet around meals, being able to sit down, have time and feel like eating. It is a health issue and may even be a matter of survival. There will be more time to prevent cases, more time to create quality of life at all. In addition, there will be better conditions for staff. It is important for the staff, and it is important for the elderly. It is also important for it to become a profession you want to invest in in the future. The Moderates allocate about half as much to the elderly care area. For me, it doesn't really make sense. As far as the investigation is concerned, the needs of the elderly should be at the heart of the investigation. The investigation is called A Quality Report, and it is the focus of the investigation both now and in the future. I have nothing against freedom of choice. I'm in favour of freedom of choice. However, I think it should be quality, whoever arranges home care and care for the elderly, and I think that you should reinvest in the business that is for the elderly. It is important to me that the tax money is spent in a good way. The influence of older people is crucial. There is investment aid. Now we are talking about shelters, but when it comes to retirement homes, it is a fact that many elderly people have to wait a long time. That is the case, and that is why we are investing in investment aid. In fact, during the time of the Alliance, retirement homes were closed down. I want to work on it. I'll work on it. D is why we are investing in it, and that is why it is also a matter for the investigation. There should be a thinking around it in the future, too. There are many more issues, such as technology use and other strategic areas. When it comes to justice, equality and gender equality, I am concerned that we live in a Sweden where women who have worked their whole lives in care for the elderly cannot always afford the retirement home they want, even if they are assessed for aid. They have simply had too low income, perhaps working part-time without wanting it and so on. It is a very bad result that we have achieved together, under different governments. For me, therefore, it is important that, when we talk about the future of care for the elderly, we look at the whole life cycle for women and men and that we work on various issues that strengthen women in the labour market. One example is the proposal for an additional month in parental insurance, which is folded to each parent so that men and women will more share both unpaid and paid work. All the issues relating to inequality, inequality and also inequality during a life cycle, I want to work on at the same time and thus improve the opportunities for women and men to be able to make real choices when they become pensioners when they come to the point where they need home care and care for the elderly.
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-459	Madam President, I would like What is quality? Sometimes I think we have different views on that concept. I put the following in it for the home service: It is important that the staff are trained for their work and otherwise appropriate, that the municipality has a clear vision and leadership of what to do with home care along the national guidelines that exist in the area, that the care recipients and their relatives have influence over care, that freedom of choice exists either as a LOV or in some other way, that there is an evaluation and follow-up strategy for home care, and that there are good opportunities for care providers to complain about things that do not work satisfactorily. Nowhere in the response of the Government is the influence and freedom of choice of the elderly mentioned in any clear way. With more different activities – private, idea-based, municipal – innovation, different services and focus on care are stimulated. What should an elderly person who is not satisfied with his home service do if there is only one alternative? The important thing is to be able to opt out of things you are not satisfied with. There are things to improve. The most sick often find it difficult to choose, but it can be solved through the municipal support to the relatives who should be able to choose. We were into a couple of other things, too. It was said that the Moderates only allocated half as much. I object to that. We have different proposals, but both sides have added things to the budget to the elderly. Regarding whether the elderly can afford it, how can you talk about it when you allow the municipalities to increase the tax rate in the home service by $21 a month, which affects many of the poorest?
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-464	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for the debate. Yes, it is extremely important that there are competent and committed staff and that there are good conditions for both women and men when you get older, especially when you become dependent on interventions such as care for the elderly and eventually come to a retirement home. That's why we put a lot of money into it. I make a trip through Sweden to see good examples. Before the adjournment, we talked about best practice and the exchange of inspiring ways of working. I make the trip to learn more and simply get ideas about what are the wishes of rural municipalities, large urban municipalities and municipalities with many born abroad and how we solve it; it applies to different parts of Sweden. I always meet representatives of the elderly, of people who work for the elderly and of course for the municipalities. This applies to both private and municipal care providers. It's very interesting, and I'm doing it as a complement to all the other things that we do. It is an example of our genuine commitment to this issue. There are ways to follow the care of the elderly. Recently, open comparisons showed that most elderly people are satisfied with care for the elderly. But there is much to do. There are also gender differences. Women have more views and are more concerned about elderly care. There are also institutions such as Ivo, which will investigate elderly care and to which one can complain. The important thing is that we constantly improve. For me, it is extremely important to ensure that we have good care for the elderly, a high-quality care for the elderly, now and in the future.
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-468	Madam President, I would like Anette Åkesson has asked me what changes the government sees ahead of us in terms of tax collection and regulations for Swedish entrepreneurs and how the government works for more Swedish companies to grow and place themselves on the Forbes 2000 list in the future. Sweden is a small, open economy in a global environment. The conditions for Swedish companies to grow and expand in an internationally competitive market are significant for employment, growth and the Swedish welfare society. In this context, Swedish companies stand up well. In relation to the other Nordic countries, Sweden has both considerably more and larger companies on the Forbes 2000 list. The Government's industrial policy aims to make it easier for companies to develop and operate. Good tax conditions for investments are important so that Swedish companies will continue to be able to compete, grow, export and hire more. Rules covering entrepreneurship are therefore crucial for sustainable growth and jobs. The rules should therefore be effective and sustainable in the long term. But also service, treatment and short processing times are of great importance for a competitive business environment. The Government therefore continues to invest in information and training for authorities to improve their service and reduce processing times in corporate matters. The government is also working to create long-term sustainable company rules. This is done, among other things, by continuing work on the Business Tax Committee's proposal to create tax conditions that are more equal in terms of own and borrowed capital financing. The Government is actively working to improve the conditions of competition for Swedish companies. This can be exemplified by the Government proposing the introduction of a Swedish system of tonnage taxation. The aim is to provide Swedish shipping companies with conditions equivalent to those for shipping companies in comparable countries in Europe. In order to further improve the conditions for growing, internationally successful companies, the government has launched the overall export strategy and export support efforts. In the 2016 budget proposal, the Government proposes a total of SEK 720 million in 2016 – 2019 to strengthen export support, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. These funds will give Swedish companies increased opportunities to find export markets and strengthen their competitiveness in the global market. Innovation is an important feature of successful companies. In order to create the conditions for this, effective capital supply is needed. In June, the Government received a survey of the need for market-supplementary financing measures aimed at SMEs from the State-funded activities investigation. On this basis, the Government intends to set up a state fund-in-fund company with the task of investing in early-stage companies. Furthermore, the Government intends to review the possibilities for setting up loan guarantee instruments aimed at supporting bank lending to companies in need of financing for expansion and development investments.
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-474	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to thank the Government for its answer. It is positive to hear that a lot is going on. To a large extent, it is as a continuation of the Alliance's work on regulatory simplifications, focus on small and medium-sized enterprises, where the jobs are created, and to achieve a more level playing field between own and borrowed capital. Of the 24 Swedish companies on the Forbes 2000 list of the world's largest listed companies, half were started in the 19th century, and none of them have been started in the last 20 years. They are renowned companies, and most are industrial companies, but obviously they have adapted, been innovative and follow developments well. It's a good rating for them and for Sweden. We operate in a global world, and as a small and export-dependent country, as the Finance Minister said, we face new challenges. Some of these traditional companies are related to the so-called BEPS project. BEPS is the abbreviation for base erosion and profit s hifting, and the project aims to prevent countries' tax bases being eroded by international companies using the national tax laws of different countries and thus being able to shift revenues and costs to countries with low or no taxation at all. It is the OECD that, on the initiative of the G20 countries, has developed action plans which are now to be implemented. The aim is basically good: double taxation of multinational companies and double non-taxation should be avoided. However, it has worked towards the goal that the taxation of large companies should take place where values are created, not where headquarters are located. This may be a concern from a Swedish perspective because we have, fortunately, several large companies head offices in Sweden but neither the large production nor sales. I therefore wonder how the Minister of Finance has planned to strengthen the Swedish tax bases in view of BEPS. Of course, you can ask yourself if it is realistic that there will be new large, global stock exchange companies from Sweden, especially considering that banks and oil and gas make up the largest industries on the Forbes list. Against this I want to counter that several of the companies that have grown fastest since last year are Facebook and Starbucks and that Sweden has been at the top of the list of companies in new technology – Skype and Spotify are the most common examples. Stockholm is even the second largest unicorn in the world, with the name of technology companies valued at over 1 billion dollars. Swedish companies show innovation power, and it should therefore be possible for more future large companies to grow up here. The good starting position is there, but many of the successful technology companies are sold or relocated abroad. So the question is what happens now. Our political focus must be on the future, not on our being satisfied with what has already been achieved. The new sectors are in the service sector, to some extent in the collaborative economy, and certainly in sectors where digitalisation and globalisation play a major role. Both digitalisation and globalisation place high demands on the renewal of regulations and business models and will mean the disappearance of many jobs. The political challenge is to ensure that there are conditions for at least as many new jobs to be created. Unfortunately, S and MP in their budget bill show no insight whatsoever, but put forward proposals that already mean fewer jobs in themselves. Several of the entrepreneurs in various interviews mention the political decision on home PCs as a reason why we now, twenty years later, have a successful situation. It shows that political decisions have long-term positive effects, but it also means that it must follow new decisions if development is to continue. The sharing economy is growing, and companies, both new and old, are calling for adapted tax rules. How does the Minister of Finance view the tax rules for the collaborative economy?
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-482	Madam President, I would like I thank Anette Åkesson for the recognition of the Social Democratic home-pc reform. It was a good reform, not least because it was aimed at all employees of companies and not just at those whom management felt needed. It became a very broad spread in society. It is correct that it is mainly older Swedish companies that are on the Forbes list. However, it is not unique to Sweden, because it is a list that is designed in such a way that it covers to a large extent older and established companies. These include companies whose shares are traded on the stock market. This means, for example, that Ikea is not on the list, even though it is a large and global company. But of course it is interesting to look at the Forbes list. I also think it is important that more Swedish companies can be included on the Forbes list. Already today, Sweden is much better off than other Nordic countries. Something else that is so interesting to look at is what you usually call unicorns or unicorns, i.e. very fast growing companies. It is a question of start-up companies that are usually not older than six years but have at least 1 billion dollars through financing rounds. When measuring fast-growing and start-ups, Sweden and above all Stockholm tend to emerge as the most successful place on earth after Silicon Valley. I think that together we should be proud and happy about that. The BEPS work can affect the Swedish tax bases both positively and negatively. Some parts of BEPS should be able to increase tax revenues in Sweden. Then there are other parts that can reduce tax revenues in Sweden. Not only does it go in one direction, but it goes in both directions. Exactly how it will fall out, we will see more closely when the rules are drawn up. As far as the collaborative economy is concerned, it is of course important that we adapt the tax rules in order to follow developments in society, but it is also important to point out that it is also important in the collaborative economy to ensure that we have proper tax revenues, so that we can finance our common welfare.
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-488	Madam President, I would like It was interesting and important to hear that the Minister for Finance is concerned with both the pros and cons of BEPS. As I said, we are following developments when the rules are applied, so that we can see if we need to take action if things are not going as planned. The home-pc reform was very good when it came, but it also received criticism precisely because it was not aimed at everyone. It was aimed at those who had jobs, which was criticism of those who did not have jobs. But it was well-cooked and has contributed a great deal. No matter how strange it may sound with our top placements, Sweden has unfortunately started to lose track of development. It poses a risk to the future. We need to be more offensive. The United States is at the top, but if we look to the EU countries, for example, we see that Britain has the ambition to become the world's best in the collaborative economy, where growth is huge. One can look at the issues raised in Britain. There are many issues that fall within the portfolio of the Minister for Finance. It is a question of regulations being developed that are proportionate to the scale of the activity, that different standards are developed that all actors must adhere to and that there are sanctions for those who do not pay the taxes they are required or adhere to the rules. This is how competition is ensured on equal terms between traditional companies and the new ones in the collaborative economy. The sharing economy highlights the weaknesses of existing regulatory frameworks but also opens up a wide range of innovations for both existing companies and new ones. With adapted regulations we get a more robust economy. It is a challenge to ensure that existing companies compete on equal terms with the new companies in, for example, the collaborative economy. It may concern tax matters or different liability issues. At the same time, there is great potential if Sweden succeeds in ensuring that companies in the collaborative economy have good conditions. It is in this area, which concerns different sectors, that new jobs are created while resource use is improving, which is good for both the economy and the environment. Another area where Sweden is present concerns welfare technology. During the spring, I visited various municipalities and companies working with welfare technology, especially in elderly care and health care. It's fascinating. In addition, one becomes a little more optimistic when one is concerned about how we will manage to finance welfare in the long term. We have several competitive advantages that we should make better use of: publicly funded elderly care and healthcare, interest in technology and focus on technical solutions for people to fend for themselves. Two concrete proposals often come up that could give Sweden the next export success industry. It is not primarily about capital supply, it is about better taking care of innovations and ensuring an incentive structure that motivates creative companies to invest in welfare technology in collaboration with municipalities and county councils. Both of these proposals could be dealt with in a national strategy, something that the Moderates will happily push for a decision at the party meeting. How does the Minister of Finance deal with tax and other regulatory issues that need to be adapted? And how does the Minister of Finance ensure that traditional companies can compete on equal terms?
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-497	Madam President, I would like As far as BEPS is concerned, it is very important that there is an independent dispute resolution mechanism. It has been a great success that will be of great benefit, not least to the smaller countries in the future work on BEPS. I fully share Anette Åkesson's view that it is important that we take better care of all the ideas that exist. There is something amazing about Sweden. There's no shortage of ideas. It's just that more of those ideas will also become companies and companies that want to grow, hire and export. It is much easier to work when this is the case than if we had been in a country where you don't have quite as much ideas as in Sweden. We have an amazing asset in Sweden. It is against this background that Stefan Löfven has started the Innovation Policy Council that he himself leads. It is a unique effort on the part of the Prime Minister to lead the Innovation Policy Council itself. It is precisely about how we can better take care of all the ideas that exist in Sweden so that they can become future export companies that hopefully end up on the Forbes list eventually, so that you can discuss those companies in the Riksdag in 100 or 150 years. There are a number of proposals that have been discussed in the Innovation Policy Council. Several of those proposals are included in the budget proposal that will be debated in this House tomorrow morning. Among other things, it is about how we organise state venture capital. With regard to the collaborative economy, it is important, as Anette Åkesson says, that there is good and even competition between companies in what they call the old economy and companies that exist in the collaborative economy, so that there are good conditions for competition and a level playing field for both types of companies. But it is also important that we ensure that the rules that we have created in the economy and in the labour market in order for us to keep track of the labour market and the economy also apply to the start-ups in the collaborative economy. It must not be the case, for example, that labour law or existing tax legislation is not complied with. As far as tax legislation is concerned, there are of course both risks and opportunities for increased sharing economy. There is, of course, a risk that more transactions will become between private individuals, which we know is an area where there is a lot of tax error. At the same time, transactions via the sharing economy will usually take place online. They are thus registered, creating potential for the tax authorities.
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-503	Madam President, I would like I am very excited about the Innovation Policy Council. I must honestly admit that I do not really know what they are doing or whether there have been any results yet. With excitement, we await it. Sweden is well placed to create many more future success stories, but it is important that we create good conditions for technology companies and new companies in the collaborative economy and welfare technology, while ensuring that the already large ones continue to have good opportunities to stay in Sweden, not least in view of the international forces that work against our tax bases. It must be ensured that competition between new and existing companies takes place on an equal footing, just as the Minister for Finance did. These conditions will need to be adjusted on the basis of developments, including on taxes. It's fun to read how the big companies start courting start-ups in order to be at the forefront and not lag behind in the rapid development of technology. It should be win-win for both sides. But I would like the public sector to take greater advantage of the opportunity to exploit the creativity that exists in the new companies. Politically, we need to be at the forefront. We need to adjust the regulatory framework to facilitate the financing of businesses, make better use of creativity and innovation and be prepared to ensure a level playing field for companies in new and old industries. Then there must be an understanding that companies must be allowed to make money. The tax system and labour market legislation are examples where we need to think about structure. But even when it comes to old challenges relating to housing construction, improved education systems and integration of new Swedes, it must take off. Then I hope that we get more companies that stay in Sweden and that we continue to be good at innovations but become better at commercialising them and that this creates many new jobs in Sweden. I would like to thank the Minister for Finance for the debate.
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-509	Madam President, I would like I fully share Anette Åkesson's view that we need more companies in Sweden and more companies that are growing. We need more innovations that can become growing companies, which are entering the export market. I very much appreciate the commitment and interest that exists in these issues across party boundaries in the Swedish Parliament. Then we sometimes have different views on exactly what measures are needed. But I think it is important and believe that it is a strength for Sweden that there is a broad commitment in the Riksdag. I think it is an asset for Sweden and for the Swedish business community. Anette Åkesson says that she is still awaiting proposals from the I nnovationsrådet. I can then inform Anette Åkesson that she does not need to do so at all, but it is perfectly possible to vote in favour of the Government's budget – there are several of the proposals. I would like to thank you for the debate.
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-513	Madam President, I would like Anette Åkesson has asked me whether I feel that the Swedish people are well aware of what they get for the tax money, and how I work to increase people's knowledge of the tax collection. As we all know, the previous government carried out substantial unfunded tax cuts despite the improvement in the economic situation. These tax reductions, together with the prolonged economic recovery, have contributed to a significant government deficit. The general government sector showed a deficit of SEK 75 billion in 2014, which was the largest deficit since the 1990s crisis. It was not a sustainable policy. Since the government took office, fiscal policy has changed in a more responsible direction. New reforms in the budget bill are financed through expenditure savings in certain areas and revenue enhancements to enable the necessary efforts to be made. These are efforts to prevent young people from going to the long-term unemployed and efforts to reverse the negative trend in school and to safeguard the common welfare of the sick, the elderly and our children. We do not solve unemployment and matching problems in the labour market, low performance in primary schools or the climate challenge with further cuts and short-term tax cuts. To meet these challenges, we need to invest in Sweden: in housing, climate change and infrastructure, in knowledge and competitiveness, and in welfare and gender equality. The answer to Anette Åkesson's question is therefore yes. I feel that the Swedish people are well aware of what they are getting for tax money, and I am constantly working to clarify the difference between the previous government's tax-sink policy and this government's long-term investments for more jobs and sustainable financing of welfare.
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-519	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply, although, of course, we do not fully agree on this issue, as we were not in the previous one. When you hear Magdalena Andersson you could almost believe that the Social Democrats were not involved in the tax cuts, but that has not been the case. On the contrary. At first, we have gone against it, but then we have accepted every step of the tax cuts, and for good reason. After all, the tax cuts have had the desired effect. Job tax deductions contribute to more hours worked and thus higher tax revenues. I think the Minister for Finance is quite alone in the view that she is clarifying the difference between the policies of the Social Democrats and those of the Alliance on this issue. If S's shadow budgets had been passed during the alliance period, Sweden's national debt would have been higher and Sweden's starting position would have been considerably worse than when the Social Democrats and the Green Party took over after the Alliance. As far as tax revenues are concerned, they have increased every year during the time of the Alliance, except for 2009 directly linked to the financial crisis. Municipalities, regions, county councils and the state raised approximately SEK 1,500 billion in tax revenue in 2013. I usually ask people I meet if they know what they're paying for medical care. Those who are politically active are usually able to answer that – that's about a third of the municipal tax everyone pays – but no one else. Maximum rates at preschools mean that no one has a hum of what a preschool place costs. So the Swedish people may know in part what the tax money is spent on, but most people have no idea about details or proportions. When we politicians talk about the need for tax revenue for school, health care and care for the elderly, most people understand that. It is even the case that people in various studies claim that they are prepared to pay more tax if it goes to children, the elderly or the sick. But when people do not know what things cost or how much of the taxes go to a specific area, it becomes difficult to discuss priorities. And we need to do that because there will always be a demand for more tax-financed activities than is possible to deliver. Of the SEK 1,900 billion that the public, i.e. the state, social security funds, municipalities and county councils have together in expenditure, approximately one third goes to school, health care and care for the elderly. Of course, it is a relatively large part of the expenditure, but it is not close to being the only thing that the tax money goes to. The defence accounts for 3%, the general public administration, which includes, among other things, aid, EU levy and basic research, about 12%, police, civil protection, the judiciary and the like, 3% and business issues about 9%, most of which relate to transport. But how many people know that social protection is by far the largest item? It covers as much as 42% of public expenditure, i.e. 800 billion in 2012, which was the latest figures I got. Social protection covers expenditure on old age, disability, parental leave, unemployment, child benefit and personal and family care. I wonder if the Minister of Finance will continue to pretend that the Social Democrats have not supported all the Alliance's tax deductions. Now that the S and MPs are presenting a budget that provides fewer jobs, will it be clear to their constituents that it means lower tax revenues and thus less resources not only for school, health care and care for the elderly, but also for the security systems?
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-529	Madam President, I would like When you listen to Anette Åkesson's introduction you almost get the impression that it will be more tax money if you lower the tax. Then, of course, I wonder why the Moderates did not go to elections for further tax cuts. It is, of course, the case that our tax funds go to various things, and it is certain that citizens in general do not know exactly how many percent go to one and the other. However, and I think that is important, there is a very strong foundation among the Swedish people when it comes to contributing over the tax bill and thus supporting each other in the different stages of life. Some of the money goes to support each other during periods when, for various reasons, we become ill or unemployed, when we get older, if we happen to be disabled or born disabled. Some of the tax revenue goes to welfare activities in the form of school, health care and care for the elderly. Other things go, just as Anette Åkesson says, to the police and defense. My picture is that the Swedish people have quite good knowledge of what the tax money is spent on. Of course, it is important as politicians to be able to prioritise between these different expenditures in order to ensure that we use our tax money in a balanced and good way. The government has also done so in the proposals we have put forward, inter alia by trying to take overall responsibility for public finances and to stop the continuing increase in deficits left by the bourgeois government. Instead, we reverse this trend and take responsibility for the public economy. In this way, we also ensure that we can maintain high quality in our welfare systems in the long term.
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-533	Madam President, I would like As far as employment tax deductions are concerned, they need to be financed from the State budget, but as the Minister of Finance well knows, they contribute to more jobs and thus tax revenues primarily to municipalities and county councils, which means that the total amount of tax revenue is increased. But yes, in order to be able to propose it, one must be able to finance it in the state budget. We in Sweden have chosen to have a well-developed welfare that includes many different parts. To finance this, a relatively high tax is levied. In turn, it will only be accepted if the inhabitants feel that they or people close to them get something for it. This can be concrete welfare services, but it can also be the feeling of security. It's like an insurance policy. You pay every month for the protection to be there when it's needed. This means that we as politicians have a very great responsibility. We manage over half of people's income. Every four years we and our colleagues in municipalities and county councils are held accountable for what we have done and what we want to do. That is why we need to be clear about this, as citizens have a certain responsibility to inform themselves. We can make it more difficult or easier for them to do so, and therefore we need more transparency and transparency. For example, many municipalities work with service guarantees that make it clear what residents can expect from the municipality. That's good. It is clear to the inhabitants what one can expect from the municipality's commitment and equally clear what one might need to secure for oneself. It is a fact that social protection accounts for over 40% of expenditure. People need to know that. They also need to know that when you increase spending on social protection, as for example S and MP do with the removal of the distant parentheses in health insurance at a time when sickness absence is increasing dramatically, then it will have consequences in other areas. Demographic developments mean that we face many challenges. From the mid-2020s, the 60s begin to retire. The 1940s are then becoming so-called older, and we are living longer and longer. This is positive, but those of working age will have to support more and more people. There are many possible measures, of which, for example, new technologies and more hours worked are the more uncontroversial proposals. But then it is problematic to, as S and MP do, present a budget that already in itself and according to external assessors will contribute to fewer jobs and thus fewer hours worked. If less tax revenue is generated, it must be compensated for by other means. Then, for example, one must be open about removing something that is currently being done by the public with tax revenue but which will instead be financed by the individual. If people themselves have to pay more and more of what they think should be included in the tax, the legitimacy of the tax system will eventually be called into question, for why should you pay tax if you do not then feel that you get what you think you are paying for? How does the Minister of Finance believe that transparency in the public sector can increase? How can we be clearer about what people can expect and what they will have to pay for themselves? How can we preserve the legitimacy of the tax system?
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-541	Madam President, I would like I share Anette Åkesson's assessment that it is important that people know what they get for their tax money. I also think it is important that we politicians are clear about the balances and tough priorities we need to make, not least in the situation that this government was in a year ago when we inherited a deficit of 2% of GDP. It was clear that it was not a path that we could continue on, but that we had to change our fiscal policy. It is clear that it took quite a great educational effort to explain to the Swedish people that the time that had been for eight years when major unfunded reforms had been carried out was over. Now it is a question of taking responsibility for public finances and implementing reforms that are funded. This government has done so in the budgets we have put forward. The bourgeois government did not do so during the years of power. It is clear that it requires a lot of discussion and educational activities to explain what is being done and why it is important. But in the long term, it is essential to ensure good quality and that it is possible to finance our joint commitment in the long term. We have different views on the far parentheses. My view is that it is unreasonable that in the 2015 Sweden, after suffering from a serious illness decision and the first shock having occurred, one should be exposed to a serious concern as to whether one can make a living in the long term or will be thrown out of health insurance. A reform that creates security is well worth implementing. Of course it costs resources, and that is why we have financed it in the budget. Many assessors have counted on the job tax deductions. It is not possible to say that the job tax deductions fund themselves; they are a cost to the public. It is important to be clear about this when explaining them. Job tax deductions cost, and you have found it more important to implement them than to carry out other reforms or to have a little more order in public finances.
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-546	Madam President, I would like Job tax deductions cost the state, but they contribute more in tax revenues to municipalities and county councils. The total amount of tax revenue is higher. I know the Minister of Finance knows that, so it's a little stupid to nag about it. It is no secret that from a moderate point of view, the budget of the S-MP government is problematic for many reasons. We need to talk more about the long-term implications of the budget. Adding a budget that reduces the number of jobs has negative consequences in both the short and long term, not least with the integration challenge we face. In a situation of increasing sick leave, abolishing the lower limit of sick leave is ill-considered. It will affect the weak in society. We talk too little about what is financed by taxes. Unlike the Minister for Finance, I believe that not many people know how relatively small a proportion of taxes go to what they perceive as the core business of the public sector, that is, health care, school and care for the elderly. This means that we do not know what tax money is being used for or can make the right demands on politicians. From the point of view of democracy, it is problematic because you have to be informed in order to be able to choose. It will be an increasingly educational problem for politicians when it comes to priority. I am among those who want to see more transparency in the public sector. It would be preferable for people to know what a childcare place or visit to the doctor costs instead of all the costs being hidden and it is said that one or other is free. Therefore, it should not only be made clearer about how much tax you pay, but also the costs of what you get for the tax money should be accounted for. I would like to thank the Minister for Finance for the debates.
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-551	Madam President, I would like Job tax deductions, Anette Åkesson, are not self-financing. This has been calculated, and they are not self-financing. The mere fact that the Moderates did not go to elections for additional job tax deductions shows this. If they had given so much extra tax revenue in the municipalities, the corresponding adjustments to state subsidies could have been made. The removal of the distant parentheses is not ill-considered. On the other hand, we have different opinions, and it is essentially because of our different ideologies that affect how we view people. I share Anette Åkesson's view that it is important that there is clear transparency and that people know what the tax money is spent on. It is an important work of enlightenment that all of us politically active share together. There, I hope, we can work well together.
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-554	Madam President, I would like Fredrik Schulte has asked me if I am open to postponing investments in the 2016 budget bill if I will continue to implement party-politically charged reforms on account of my comment in the media on the principle of crown for crown and finally how much bigger deficit I estimate that the state will do for 2015 and 2016 since the budget was presented. Since the government's access, we have put forward economic proposals that have helped to halve deficits while improving structural savings. We have taken responsibility for Sweden's economy. This is something we intend to do in the future as well. It is therefore natural that the Government Office is prepared to review expenditure and revenue. The Ministry of Finance has asked all departments to take stock of possible expenditure reductions and various ways to mitigate cost increases. Then there is a political priority. This is part of the Ministry of Finance's regular duties. As a result of the increase in the number of asylum seekers in Sweden, the Government has assessed that there are specific reasons for proposing further changes to the State's budget for 2015 in addition to the proposals made in the autumn 2015 amending budget. All in all, these proposals mean that the ceiling-limited expenditure increases by SEK 11 billion in 2015 and that the budgeting margin decreases by the corresponding amount. Since general government's financial savings are calculated in accrual terms, the main impact on financial savings is assessed in 2016.
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-558	Madam President, I would like It is in crises that political leadership is really being tested. When we had an alliance government that had to deal with one of the biggest global economic crises since the Second World War, Anders Borg's leadership was tested as Minister of Finance. During 2007 – 2008 there were constant statements from the Social Democrats that the government had to spend and invest more, but Anders Borg held back. Because he showed that leadership, the government was able to tackle the financial crisis well. We saved up in good times to handle bad times. Magdalena Andersson's political leadership is now being tested. It's not a financial crisis. On the contrary, the Swedish economy seems to be improving. However, there is a refugee crisis. It will cost a lot of money, and it will burden society's different systems in many different ways – especially in the area of welfare. It will also increase expenditure on the state. Will Magdalena Andersson be able to handle the situation? Will Magdalena Andersson be able to hold on to public finances so that when in the future there will be an economic crisis, an economic recession, there will be resources to tackle that situation? Let us state two things in particular. The first is that the government has not been able to deal with the core of the refugee crisis. It has not been possible to act decisively politically to slow down the large flows of refugees that we are now seeing. Just a few hours ago, the government presented new proposals for measures to halt the refugee crisis. Those proposals will not be enough. There will continue to be a large influx of refugees in a severely strained situation for the reception system. The second point is that the Minister of Finance has lost control of public finances. If the Finnish Immigration Service's forecasts come true, it will cost the state 100 billion more during the budget period. The forecasts are coming, but we have not received any response at all from the Minister of Finance about what she wants. The Committee on Finance has called the Minister for Finance to report on the impact of the projections on public finances. She comes there and gives a general statement that the refugee crisis will involve tough efforts. There is no clear leadership to show whether the Minister of Finance wants the surplus target to be achieved, which is to be followed by law. She cannot give information if she wants to reach a balance goal and what year that goal should occur. The Minister of Finance hasn't given any predictions as to where she wants to go or how she's going to get there. In this interpellation, I have asked the Minister of Finance a few questions that she has not answered. Is she prepared to postpone reforms in the budget to the future? She hasn't answered that. Will she propose tax increases to deal with the situation? I haven't got that answer either. We have been given a general vague answer about looking at savings. Madam President, I would like 100 billion in four years is a lot of money. It's the biggest saving since the 1990s crisis. There is no leadership, and there is no clear signal. The Minister of Finance has clearly lost control of public finances.
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-565	Madam President, I would like Four hours ago, the government presented a series of proposals for very strong measures to dampen the influx of asylum seekers into Sweden. But Fredrik Schulte already knows that this will have no effect whatsoever, even though the Moderates have not yet had a meeting with the government and have not been able to analyse the proposals. In the current situation in which Sweden finds itself, Fredrik Schulte, a rather acute crisis, I do not think it is a serious tone in the debate. I'm not surprised. Fredrik Schulte says that I have lost control of public finances. Then I would just like to point out to Fredrik Schulte that since I took office I have halved the deficit in public finances. And according to the forecasts made yesterday by the ESV, I will not for any year come close to the deficits left by Fredrik Schultes's party when it held government power itself. That's a lack of control, isn't it? Nor is it a serious way of debating, Fredrik Schulte.
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-567	Madam President, I would like Speaking of seriosity, the Minister for Finance stands here and beats his chest and says: I have halved the deficit in public finances. Then perhaps I should remind the Minister of Finance that her budget for 2015 was not passed. The finance minister's own policy has only partially taken effect during the summer. The Minister of Finance has not yet achieved a budget in this Parliament. The Minister of Finance has not halved any budget deficit, but the policy of the Alliance did. Then it is a little strange, if you compare the Alliance's budget for 2015, which was adopted with the Social Democrats' and Government's budget, that the government wants a larger budget deficit. It is a very unserious and strange way of arguing by the Minister of Finance. Has she already forgotten the crisis that we had in Swedish politics a year ago, when she did not get through her budget? It's very strange. Will the government's proposed measures to deal with the refugee crisis have an effect? Yes, absolutely they will have an effect, but they will not have enough effect. In order for us to really make sure that we take, to use the Prime Minister's words, a refugee break, we really need to apply the Dublin Convention and say that the people crossing the Swedish border from another EU country will return to the first EU country they came to, because that is where they are going to seek asylum. That's what it takes for us to seriously stop this flow. No matter what, the fact remains that we are in a vulnerable position. The large reception that Sweden has seen will have an impact on public finances. And when we call the Finance Minister to the Finance Committee, she cannot answer what she wants, what she will take action, what she has in mind to achieve surpluses, or if she has completely ignored the rules for the surplus target, if she now even wants to achieve balance. She cannot answer the question about her statement that the krona-pre-krona principle no longer applies and whether she is also referring to reforms other than those linked to the refugee crisis. There are quite a few of us who are concerned that the Minister for Finance has a plan to use the refugee crisis as a reason for spending a great deal of tax money. This is not the first time the Minister of Finance has acted in doubt in this respect. She promised before the election not to phase out the surplus target. Then it was not many months before she said tt in the TV sofa and said that now they were going to phase out the surplus target. Even before we entered this crisis, there was a lack of leadership and a great deal of uncertainty about what applies to public finances, and now we are not getting any news at all. It is quite clear that Magdalena Andersson will not be able to keep hold of public finances. She will not be able to demonstrate the political leadership shown by Anders Borg and the Alliance, for example, at the beginning of our term of government, two terms of office ago. It will have very negative effects. The issue of public finances is not just something that we politicians think is important, but it is crucial for Sweden in the next crisis to be able to maintain demand in the economy, for us to be able to pay out unemployment funds to those who become unemployed, for us to manage to stimulate the economy and maintain demand through various types of initiatives. And we will not be able to do that if Magdalena Andersson is now screwing up public finances.
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-575	Madam President, I would like Fredrik Schulte apparently has a crystal ball of his own and knows how everything will turn out in the coming years, because his post is mainly about how I will act in the coming years. Then I just have one question for Fredrik Schulte: If you now know how everything will be, why do you keep asking me questions?
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-576	Madam President, I would like This ridiculous, almost childish, way the Minister of Finance is arguing shows how I hit a sore toe here. No one thinks they can see into the future. We are, however, many who are concerned about Sweden's future, that Sweden is on the wrong track and that the Minister for Finance is not able to tackle the probably rather tough challenges we are looking at. And why are we? Because Magdalena Andersson first scraps the surplus target, a backbone of the public financial framework that will ensure that we can save in good times to stimulate the economy in bad times. It destroys the Minister of Finance. Now that we are facing a refugee crisis that is likely to put a heavy burden on public finances, the Minister of Finance cannot show leadership and tell us what she wants. Does she want us, at a time of relatively good economics, to ignore building a buffer for the future? Does she want to reach a balance goal? Does she want to reach a surplus target? How long will it take before you reach the possible goal you set? We don't get any answers. The only conclusion to be drawn from this is that the Minister of Finance has lost control of public finances. It is worrying, and nobody in this House thinks they know exactly how it will take place. However, we are concerned that the Minister of Finance will not be able to hold the helm, and there is a great deal to suggest that, not least the unseriosity of the Minister of Finance's actions in this House.
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-579	Madam President, I would like Just before Fredrik Schulte entered this Chamber, I had two very good and serious debates with his fellow Members. I wish you could take some impressions of them when it comes to the style of debate. When it comes to controlling public finances, I can see that according to the latest forecast by the Swedish Financial Control Agency, we will not in any year have more deficits than the deficits that prevailed when Fredrik Schultes's party colleague Anders Borg sat in the Ministry of Finance. If this is a lack of control over state finances, what was the case during Moderates' time? you can ask yourself. It must have been totally unchecked, because you had significantly bigger deficits and deficits that grew year after year. In my budget, the deficits are decreasing year by year. We will come up with a new forecast for public finances. That's what we usually come up with around the turn of the year, and so do we this time. Then we will show how public finances are developing in the coming years. We are now working intensively at the Ministry of Finance to review what measures we are going to take to ensure that we meet the expenditure ceilings in the coming years. Of course, however, part of the costs of refugee immigration will be passed on to public finances in the form of increased borrowing and a larger budget deficit. The measures we have taken so far mean increased borrowing. This is something on which we fully agree with the Moderates, because the amending budget that we submitted to Parliament, which is funded by increased borrowing, is also supported by the Moderates.
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-584	Madam President, I would like Helena Bouveng has asked me how the government is discussing the weak development of productivity in Sweden. She has also asked me whether I agree with LO that reducing taxes on labour and abolishing defence taxes would contribute to increased productivity. The Swedish productivity trend has been weak since 2006, especially when compared with a very strong productivity trend in the period 1995-2006. While it has been better than in several southern European countries, productivity has developed weaker than in the United States, Denmark and Japan, for example. The reasons for the weak productivity development in recent years need to be further analysed. However, a contributing factor is that global demand has been exceptionally weak over the last eight years. Low demand hampers productivity development in the short term and can also lead to decreasing productivity-enhancing investments, affecting productivity growth in the longer term. The LO report, which deals with a major tax reform, states, among other things, that research indicates that high marginal taxes on labour have negative effects on so-called superstar inventory. This means an international workforce with a high level of innovation. But the fact is that according to the Global Innovation Index, Sweden is one of the world's five most innovative countries. However, analyses indicate that low productivity-enhancing investments may have contributed to the weaker productivity growth in Sweden in recent years. The ability of companies to invest is made more difficult if they do not find the right skills or if there is no housing for those with the right skills. The Government's investments in education, housing construction and infrastructure therefore create better conditions for increasing productivity in the long term. Good framework conditions for entrepreneurs, in the form of regulations and legislation in the field of taxation, for example, are also important to stimulate investment and the emergence of new businesses. The Government prioritises efforts to further improve these conditions. Productivity development is crucial for long-term GDP growth and thus also for growth in GDP per capita. It is therefore important that we invest in research, innovation, education and infrastructure, which are fundamental tools for increasing productivity growth in the future.
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-592	Madam President, I would like I take for granted that the Minister of Finance reads a lot of reports. It is not possible to get through all of them, but I assume that the LO report on productive tax reforms is of great interest to Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson. The Minister of Finance is certainly much more familiar with the report jungle than I am, and I just want to feel sure that I understand the report correctly. It would therefore be good if the Minister of Finance could give his view on some of the statements made in the report and say if she draws the same conclusions as LO does. On p. 3, the following is written: a tax subsidy is currently used to shift labour from sectors with higher productivity to those with lower productivity. ..................................................... If I translate it correctly, I think it points out above all the ROT deduction – that high-productivity construction workers would go from, for example, a company that is in the process of new production of housing to renovating patios or other things in our homes. My own experiences say something completely different. A while ago I visited a company in Västerås that is engaged in new production of housing. I asked if the ROT deduction had led to their difficulties in obtaining qualified workers. They made it clear that it was not the kind of labor they needed. They applied for a well-trained workforce with different specialist skills in several different areas. They simply did not compete for the same people. It was also confirmed last week when I met a number of ROT companies in my country. It is not the CNC operator who is on the payroll list, but a lot of older people who up to now have seen it as quite profitable to work further up the age range. It has also been profitable to employ these. It is Ashram who is prepared to work very many hours at his start-up to get a life that he might never have had in Albania. It is Per-Per-Åke who has not finished high school but who is incredibly good with his hands and on smart solutions in our homes. I wonder whether the Minister for Finance shares LO's view that the ROT deduction has not led to increased employment. Does the Minister of Finance think that the number of jobs is clear, that a new job is done at the expense of an employee already employed?
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-599	Madam President, I would like Any questions about how to interpret LO's report I think you best ask LO, not to me. It is not my view that the number of jobs in the economy is given. On the contrary, I regard the economy as dynamic and that policies on how we levy taxes and how we use tax money and expenditure can affect the economy and the functioning of the economy. The ROT deduction is a large tax subsidy for the conversion of existing homes. The government has chosen to retain this subsidy, but we make it slightly smaller and spend some of the money that today goes at a discount to rebuild kitchens to do something about the housing situation so that our young and new arrivals have the opportunity to have their own accommodation. Instead, some of the subsidies that are currently being paid to private individuals who are rebuilding their kitchens will be used to produce more new kitchens.
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-602	Madam President, I would like If I understand correctly, the Minister for Finance does not believe that the ROT deduction has led to any displacement effects. But while she says that the government is now spending a number of money on infrastructure and so on, she says that it is not the same people who are hired to do it. It gets a little weird for me, not least in the situation we are in when many new people are going into our labour market. A little later in the report it states under the heading Seven lost years that bnp calculated per person developed by just under zero per cent in 2008–2014. However, according to the World Bank database for the same period, Sweden's percentage development per employee was well above that of Denmark, Austria, Germany, the United Kingdom and others. To then call it seven lost years should mean that LO does not like that there are more children born, that Sweden has got new citizens and that we live longer. I do not think that Magdalena Andersson thinks this is bad, and neither do I. It is surprising that more hours worked are limited by the population size of a country when a large part of our population is excluded, that is to say, outside the labour market. If productivity growth is crucial to a country's economic growth, we are in complete agreement. But looking at this alone, it would mean that it is better to produce zero in exclusion than to produce something inside and that jobs in the RUT sector are a problem because it reduces bnp per capita even if it actually improves the state's economy. Is this not only true if we believe that we are living in a static environment? The Minister of Finance said she doesn't think we're living in a static environment. She likes to see that Sweden's economy is both changing and growing when all jobs are needed and new industries, such as domestic services, develop and refine and enable the low-skilled to move forward. I wonder how the Minister of Finance sees LO's focus on productivity per hour worked. Is that why the Minister of Finance wants to halve the RUT deduction? Is it more important for the Minister of Finance to have good productivity developments than to offer people fleeing war a job because it initially leads to lower GDP per capita? Does the Minister of Finance share my view that a first job gives an opportunity to move on to a new job later?
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-608	Madam President, I would like Let me inform Helena Bouveng that we are not halving the RUT deduction without the ceiling for the RUT deduction. It affects a very small proportion of those who use RUT deductions, namely 1%. I have not said that the ROT deduction cannot have displacement effects. Of course, some of those who currently provide services used in private homes could have been able to work in, for example, new construction. Now that the number of newly built apartments and rental apartments will increase in the coming years, I imagine that some of the people who over the last few years have worked to rebuild kitchens will instead work on building new kitchens. Then there are certainly some people who only work with ROT services at home and who will not work in new workplaces. As far as productivity is concerned, perhaps I am somewhat more concerned than Helena Bouveng. It is a fact that we have not had any increase in GDP per capita since the financial crisis, and it is not a development that I consider sustainable in the long term if we are to finance our welfare system. I think it is important that we try in different ways to bring up bnp per capita. One way to do this is to increase productivity. Unlike Helena Bouveng, I am concerned that productivity developments have not been very strong in Sweden after the crisis. I think it is important to put in place policy measures to try to overcome that problem. This may include the possibility for companies to find the right skills for staff. The great leap in knowledge proposed by the government can be such an important measure.
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-614	Madam President, I would like I certainly share the view of the Minister of Finance that GDP per capita is incredibly important in the long term. But now we are faced with an extraordinary situation where we may need to resort to extraordinary measures that do not lead to productivity development directly but well to our new people getting their first job and then being able to move forward and contribute to higher GDP per capita. The report addresses the importance of reducing taxes on labour. Sweden has the highest marginal tax on labour in the world with 57% of marginal tax. It's only Aruba that beats us. This compares with an EU average of 37.8%, an OECD average of 41.4% and a global average of 31.2%. Let's get out of here pretty good. The report mentions high marginal taxes on labour, which may have negative effects on international labour with high innovation power, so-called superstar inventories. This was confirmed the other week when I met entrepreneurs who testify that these talents choose not to come to Sweden because of this. Some newly baked students come, but they visit Sweden for a short time. It is a nice and exotic country that can be good to have in its CV. But they don't stay for a long time to develop and come up with new innovations, which definitely lead to increased productivity – where we share the same view. Therefore, I wonder: does the Minister for Finance share LO's view that high marginal taxes lead to lower productivity, not just for superstar inventory? Does Magdalena Andersson see a danger in the fact that the red-green government does exactly the opposite and further increases marginal taxes? This strikes directly at the will to work more, to educate themselves more and to take more responsibility, which we want to see more of. Do we find it even more difficult to be attractive to innovation talent outside Sweden?
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-619	Madam President, I would like I do not think that the rather marginal change we make of the marginal tax will have a major impact on the ability to attract superstar inventory to Sweden. There is, among other things, the possibility of expert tax. I note that the former bourgeois government, even though it reduced the tax by 130 billion, chose not to lower the highest marginal tax but to opt for other taxes instead. In the situation we are now in, with an exceptional situation where our country will have many new citizens, it is, as Helena Bouveng says, important that we try to work pragmatically to find different ways of getting people to work. It is about turning all the stones around, being creative and pragmatic and working together in politics and with the business community and civil society to try together to find good, new and innovative solutions so that more people come to work and so that those who now get asylum in Sweden get a good start and can start their new lives here. I do not believe, however, that reducing wages is a good way forward there. It has been shown in other countries that creating low-wage sectors is a great risk of people getting stuck there, and the result is that people have to fund their livelihoods through the public sector in different ways. In the UK, this is done, among other things, through tax credits, which in fact become a subsidy to those companies that pay very low wages. I don't think that's a good way forward. I think it's important that you can live on your salary. I hope, however, that we can find important ways of getting more people to work.
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-626	Madam President, I would like Fredrik Schulte has asked me whether further tax increases will be required in case the reception of asylum continues to increase in line with the main scenario in the Migration Agency's latest forecast. I would like to begin by saying that, since the government took office, fiscal policy has changed in a more responsible direction. The government has financed new reforms on the basis of the 'krona-for-krona' principle. This has contributed to the almost halving of the general government deficit compared to last year. The Government has submitted an amending budget to Parliament in view of the refugee situation. In the budget, the government proposes temporary support of 10 billion to municipalities and civil society. The proposals in the amending budget will be financed by an increase in government borrowing. The large number of asylum seekers means unforeseen and, in the short term, almost inevitable expenditure. Increased government borrowing is a common system for managing unforeseen costs during the current financial year. There is now work in progress within the Government Office to review how different expenditure increases that may occur in the coming years will be financed. Depending on the evolution of public finances and migration flows, this may involve saving measures in future budgets, ways to mitigate cost increases and loan financing. In addition, it is already well known that we can, for example, consider introducing a bank tax.
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-630	Madam President, I would like We had a similar debate just a few minutes ago, and there is no reason to repeat it. The Minister of Finance said that she has halved the deficit, but I would like to point out once again and emphasise that she has not halved the deficit. It is the Alliance's budget that has in principle been in force until the end of the summer. The Minister of Finance takes credit for something she can't take credit for. If her budget had gone through, we would have had a bigger deficit. According to the Finnish Immigration Service's forecasts, the refugee crisis will cost a lot of money. The Minister of Finance has signalled one thing from the past, namely that she wants to make some savings. And now she's talking about a bank tax. Just to put things in the right proportion, according to the Migration Board, it is 100 billion in four years. If we were to save this money, it would be the biggest saving since the budget adjustment in the 1990s. If we were to raise this money with a bank tax, a number of banks in Sweden would probably fail, for so much money it does not bring in. I will not prolong the debate. I just wanted to make these points. It would be good if the Minister of Finance could comment on just about how much savings and tax increases she expects to have to make and how much a bank tax can be imposed.
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-636	Madam President, I would like Fredrik Schulte is quite right that we have just had a similar debate. This is because Fredrik Schulte is asking very many and similar questions. We have halved the deficit in public finances. It is quite correct that our budget did not go through last autumn. On the other hand, the bourgeois Alliance used in practice the same framework as us. We presented our budget, and then the budget motion came from within our framework. It was good enough. No major changes were made and the previous policy did not continue to increase budget deficits constantly, year after year, in the way it did when it was in government. After all, from taking over power in 2006 to losing power in 2014, the budget deficit increased every year. It was a sloping plane. It had nothing to do with cyclical developments; it was just about constantly increasing deficits, year after year. What we are doing in the government now is dealing with the situation by working on all the necessary measures. We will do what is necessary to deal with this situation responsibly. Some of this will, of course, break through in poorer public finances. It is perfectly reasonable and correct, and it is precisely in order to be able to face this kind of situation that we, as the government, have felt it has been so important to halve the deficits. Had we continued the policy of the previous government with large deficits, we would not have had the same strength to face this situation. Among other things, it is because we have halved the deficits that we are able to implement the special one-off investment to the municipalities. As I said in the last debate, I will make new forecasts at some point in the turn of the year. It will show how public finances will be affected in the coming years. We will, of course, take the necessary measures to meet the expenditure ceilings and to pursue a responsible economic policy.
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-642	Madam President, I would like If the Minister of Finance is disturbed by having to answer about the same questions time and again, I would like to say that it is because the Minister of Finance cannot give clear and straightforward answers about what applies in fundamental questions for Sweden's economy and, not least, that she glides on the truth and reality in a rather remarkable way. Just a minute ago, she stood here in the speaker's chair beating her chest and saying that she has halved the deficit. Then she says that the Alliance's budget was good because we followed her framework. The Minister of Finance should reasonably know that the Alliance's budget for 2015 followed exactly the guidelines that we put in our bill in 2014 before the elections. It is no wonder that Magdalena Andersson gets many questions and is under pressure in these contexts, because she cannot give straight answers, and she is arguing in a way that clearly runs counter to reality. Another such example is when she constantly tries to put the picture of a major public finance conflict in the last parliamentary term. We have had the parliamentary investigation service look at what public finances would have looked like if Magdalena Andersson's opposition policy had been in place during the last parliamentary term. That makes a difference of 8 billion. There are a few percentage points of difference from the alliance government. We all agreed that the last parliamentary term should stimulate the economy. The Alliance, the Social Democrats, the red-green overall, the Institute of Economics, the Council of Finance Policy, yes everyone agreed that the last term of office would stimulate the economy. The fact that the Minister of Finance continues to repeat this is quite remarkable. Last week I had a debate with the Minister of Finance on the same theme, where I had printed a big poster to illustrate it. I must obviously use other educational methods to highlight the very fact that we all agreed very much that we should stimulate the economy during the last parliamentary term. Regardless of what, it is positive that the Minister of Finance actually intends to present a plan for how the refugee crisis will affect public finances. As I said, we have invited the Finance Minister to the Committee on Finance to explain this. We didn't get any answers there. I don't get any answers now. But it's better that an answer comes late than it never comes. No matter what, many people are worried about what it will mean, because the government is not prepared to take the strong measures needed to put an end to the refugee crisis and it is now very unclear how to deal with the economic situation. We hear the Minister of Finance talking about bank tax, which at most gives a few billion. She's talking about savings. In the tone and in the way she points out those savings, it is clear that it will not be enough. As I have said before, according to the Migration Board's forecasts, it is 100 billion in four years. Should we make savings for that would be the biggest savings that Sweden has seen in 20 years, and I do not think Magdalena Andersson is prepared for that. That is why we come to the conclusion that there will probably be increased taxes, because the Minister of Finance is also not prepared to refrain from the increase in subsidies that she so much wants to implement. That is where we are: increased taxes, increased taxes, increased taxes. It will hit the Swedish economy.
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-651	Madam President, I would like It is quite correct that I have been in the Finance Committee and explained the financial consequences of the Migration Board's new forecast and also explained how the government is now working to reduce those costs. It is only Fredrik Schulte of those who were at that presentation who then seems not to have taken on that message but felt the need to continue asking questions about it. The other Members seem to have received answers during that presentation. If I receive similar questions because Fredrik Schulte does not receive answers, I can point out that in this case I received two equally obedient questions without even answering them. But it is, of course, free for Members of Parliament to ask how many interpellations you want, and here I can note that Fredrik Schulte is very diligent and makes reasons for his salary as a Member of Parliament. Of course, I also always appreciate these debates. It's a great pleasure. I have often answered Fredrik Schulte's very question about how I view the differences in economic policy during the last parliamentary term. There Fredrik Schulte has obviously still not understood my answer, so I don't know if it's a big idea for me to repeat it once more, because I have said it very many times. That is because we proposed completely different measures from those proposed by the previous government. It proposed permanent tax cuts, which continue to burden public finances even when the economic cycle has improved, while the Social Democratic opposition proposed temporary labour market policy measures. There is a big difference, and that is why public finances would of course have looked better if the Social Democrats had had the opportunity to get their proposals through during their term of office. I will certainly have to repeat that answer many more times during this parliamentary term, and I look forward in particular to that.
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-655	Madam President, I would like It is nice that Magdalena Andersson really believes in her policy and that it would have such positive effects. If you ask the Swedish people, only 5 percent believe in the Finance Minister's employment policy. There are fewer than those who believe in ghosts and aliens walking around us. If you ask the Financial Policy Council, Konjunkturinstitutet and the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, you can see that everyone is very coherent in that government policy creates fewer jobs. Last parliamentary term, the same independent judge said that the policy of the then alliance government would provide more jobs. It's nice that we have a finance minister who at least has confidence in what she's doing. But all other assessors agree that the effects that Magdalena Andersson hopes for do not exist. Tax cuts may be more permanent measures. But there are also increases in subsidies. One of the major investments that Magdalena Andersson makes during his time as Minister of Finance is to raise the contributions, raise the unemployment fund. But during her time in the opposition there was an even greater share of her efforts. This would have led us to see a return to the policy that we had during Göran Persson's time, when we paid 30, 40 or 50 billion more in sick leave, more in different types of exclusion costs because people get stuck in benefit dependency, get stuck in exclusion. That kind of argument does not hold up. The fact remains that we had almost exactly the same levels of how much we wanted to stimulate the economy. If Magdalena Andersson believes that grants stimulate the economy, it is bad for Sweden's finances.
i-6ed52b60b0855f8f-659	Madam President, I would like Now it is not only Magdalena Andersson who believes that, for example, increased child benefits, increased health insurance or strengthened unemployment insurance, stimulate the economy better than tax cuts. I believe that it is a fairly united economist who believes that, in a recession, of course, it is better to stimulate households with a high propensity for consumption, i.e. families with children, pensioners, the sick and the unemployed. It is a far more effective way of spending public resources than by, for example, removing wealth tax, as did the previous bourgeois government, which is not a very effective way of stimulating the economy in bad times. For example, raising subsidies is something that, in the longer term, costs less than reducing taxes. That depends on the way in which the budget is structured, where we do not have indexation of grants. Without making new decisions, this will reduce the burden on public finances as the economy grows. However, this does not apply to tax reductions. Even in this way the policy of the bourgeois government worsens the long-term state finances more than the policy of the Social Democratic Opposition had done. After we had to take over government power, we have taken hold of this. We have a new focus on economic policy. We are now pursuing a responsible economic policy, in which we are making sure to finance our reforms and take care of our public finances, instead of doing what was done under the bourgeois government, when deficits increased year after year due to major unfunded tax cuts. Of course, we will do so in this refugee situation as well.
