i-BBcdL6DiVcddyYPcJYuVNf	The job was assisted by more than 35 members and was later suspended the same day for the first time. The profession was postponed once more, on 15 October 2015. The case will now be brought to the fore.
i-1355c2314d348b14-0	Madam President, I would like The Swedish Democrats have requested the Riksdag to declare that Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson does not enjoy the trust of the Riksdag. Formally, this is not the same as calling for the resignation of the whole government, but the consequences are the same. A distrust of the Minister for Finance on the budget proposal she has put on the table of the Riksdag will also be a mistrust of the entire government's policy. Only in January, the Swedish Democrats have already tested Parliament's confidence in the government. The result was that the Swedish Democrats were the only party to vote in favour of the motion of censure. Even then, I was clear about my and the Social Democrats' criticism of the actions of the Swedish Democrats. The declaration of censure was not intended to test the government's parliamentary support. Instead, the aim was to attract attention, which is hardly the task of the motion of censure. A motion of censure must examine the basic principle of parliamentarism: if the parliament tolerates the government. It is Parliament's strongest weapon, and it is intended as an ultimate guarantee of parliamentarism. Over the last 20 years, it's been four times. It is irresponsible to use a motion of censure as easily as the Swedish Democrats are now doing. This is certainly not surprising. Ever since the Swedish Democrats entered the Riksdag, they have acted in a way that shows a lack of respect for both the parliamentary working methods and democratic principles. The most remarkable thing is, of course, when, last autumn, the Swedish Democrats not only decided the government's draft budget but also expressed their intention to lay down any government budget that does not subscribe to the xenophobic policy of the Swedish Democrats. It is an act that clearly reveals that issues of welfare, pensioners' conditions, defence policy, the unemployment fund or other important policy areas actually play a completely subordinate role for the Swedish democrats. Their only real interest is to promote xenophobia and to act in a way that creates more fear, more mistrust and more insecurity. We recognize the pattern from many other countries, and we recognize it from history. With the challenges facing Sweden, we need rather more cooperation and consensus, not parliamentary disorder or casual use of our constitution's heaviest parliamentary tools. It benefits neither democracy nor the economy of the country, and it hardly strengthens the confidence of the outside world in our country. Instead, our citizens have the right to expect us elected representatives to accept our responsibility for the challenges facing Sweden. Then neither unserious conduct in the Riksdag nor acting in a way that increases insecurity and contradictions in society. The rules of democracy are important, and parties should not abuse the power the Constitution gives to Parliament. Do not weaken Parliament's reputation by using its ultimate instrument solely for party-political demonstration politics! We Social Democrats are calling for the motion of censure to be rejected. We are proud of the Minister for Finance Magdalena Andersson, and we note that she acts in an excellent way for the good of Sweden as a whole. The Socialist parliamentary group will therefore vote against the vote.
i-1355c2314d348b14-13	Madam President, I would like Sweden is in a crisis that requires action and responsibility. The Moderates will not help to cause instability in the political system by supporting the motion of censure on Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson put forward in this House. This does not support the economic policy of Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson and the Government. On the contrary, the Moderates consider government policy to be harmful. It is detrimental to jobs, growth and security. We want to see another direction for Sweden. By 2018, we will ask for the confidence of voters to reverse developments and conduct an economic policy for a stronger Sweden together with the other alliance parties. As Sweden's largest opposition party, we will continue to pursue an active opposition policy within the framework of current rules and practice, while being prepared to take responsibility for Sweden and to enter into broad agreements when this benefits the country. We do not hesitate to use the parliamentary tools available to ensure respect for Parliament's role as the main representative of the people. The Moderates assume that the government will comply with the decisions made by the Riksdag. We will continue to demand responsibility from the government. However, we do not intend to participate in the Swedish Democrats' game in the Swedish Parliament. Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson and the Government have presented a draft budget in accordance with established budgetary practices and procedures. The Riksdag will examine the Government's budget and will examine and examine the proposals in the usual order. Today, the Moderates are abstaining in the examination of the motion of censure on Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson. In accordance with the practice followed by the Moderates since the emergence of the new form of government, this should not be interpreted as supporting government policy.
i-1355c2314d348b14-20	Madam President, I would like In an interview with Dagens Nyheter in August 2014, the current Minister of Finance, Magdalena Andersson, expressed great indignation over a seven-year-old vow breach from an individual moderate Member of Parliament. Magdalena Andersson felt that it was difficult to understand that a person who had been seized with lies could be allowed to hold heavier positions of trust and stated that one must be able to trust people. Unfortunately, the Minister of Finance has not lived as she teaches. Prior to the elections, Magdalena Andersson promised her voters that the ROT deduction would be allowed to remain. However, the budget proposal recently presented to Parliament by the Minister for Finance contains proposals for a significantly reduced ROT deduction, even if the deduction may still exist. On TV4's News Morning, April 10, 2014, Magdalena Andersson said that she is of course behind the surplus target and that she has been chasing Anders Borg for two years because he has broken it. In the budget proposal now presented by the Minister for Finance here in Parliament, the surplus target is effectively abolished. On 17 August 2014 Magdalena Andersson in Sweden's Television said that it is really expensive to take gas as it is and that the Social Democrats saw no need to increase the petrol tax. The budget proposal that has now been presented to Parliament includes a sharp increase in petrol tax. Even more serious than this series of flagrant breach of promises is the lack of ability of the Minister of Finance to anticipate and manage the costs of his own policies and, not least, the inability to maintain order and order in the state's finances. Despite the fact that today it is less than a month since the budget proposal was presented, we can see that this budget document, because of the apparent costs of migration policy in particular, which had been foreseeable and could have been prevented, is completely useless to govern this country. The Finance Minister's draft budget is underfunded by many billions. No clear answers have yet been given on how to deal with this serious under-financing. Only yesterday, the Minister of Finance announced that the most likely thing is that the public debt will be charged, i.e. borrowing at the running costs of immigration policy. Madam President, I would like The government has also attracted sharp criticism from the Council of Finance Policy, the Swedish National Audit Office, the Swedish Financial Control Agency and so on. This is the background. We have now heard in the debate, both here today and before, that it is irresponsible to make such a proposal in the Swedish Parliament. I find it extremely strange to hear this kind of argument, especially from the other so-called opposition. The Swedish Democrats are an opposition party in the Swedish parliament. We are here to represent the interests of our constituents, and we are here to try to push through the policies that we have promised our constituents to push through if we gain influence. This is one way of trying to bring about another government. As the Group leader of the Social Democrats rightly pointed out in his speech here, this is a distrust directed at the whole government and the government's economic policy. That one as bourgeois politicians in this assembly does not agree with this distrust is beyond my understanding. Madam President, I would like I also note that, just now, when the leader of the Socialist Group was standing here, he did not really, at least not what I could hear, put forward a single argument for not supporting this motion of censure. It was more talk about other things, how irresponsible we are and so on. Perhaps they themselves do not see any arguments for not supporting this motion of censure, but I do not know. However, Madam President, in view of the background I have described and in view of the serious situation that we are seeing in Sweden today, I would like to call for the Swedish Democrats' request to be supported by the Parliament under Chapter 13. §4 The form of government shall declare that Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson no longer enjoys the confidence of the Riksdag.
i-1355c2314d348b14-32	Madam President, I would like The Parliament is the people's main representative, and its strongest weapon is a motion of censure against an individual minister or government. As has been said in this House, this weapon is intended to be used as an ultimate guarantee of parliamentarism. So far, it has been used only a few times since 1980. The Swedish democrats seem to be using the declarations of censure in a completely different way and with completely different purposes. It has not been a year since the SD filed its last motion of censure on the government. Last week, there was a new one, this time directed at Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson, on which we are now going to take a position. We find the argument in this both unserious and inappropriate. The Green Party has full confidence in Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson and our government. I therefore propose, on behalf of the Green Party, rejecting the motion of censure on Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson.
i-1355c2314d348b14-35	Madam President, I would like Since the elections, we have a complicated parliamentary situation in the Swedish Parliament. None of the policy options have a majority of their own. This in itself is nothing new in Swedish politics. But what is unique on this occasion is that there are forces in this House that intend to create chaos and uncertainty precisely for the sake of chaos and uncertainty. But the situation that we have demands reflection. For decades, the Center Party has been behind the rules of the game that we in this Parliament have agreed on, that is to say that the budget should be considered as a whole and that declarations of censure are not something to be taken lightly. The reason for this is that the parliamentary system must continue to enjoy confidence in the future. Right now we have several major challenges in Swedish politics. These must be resolved constructively and with concrete substantive policies. In such a situation, opening up to a situation where governments fall once a half-year is absolutely not responsible. This is basically why the Center Party does not support the motion of censure advocated by the Swedish Democrats. Madam President, I would like The action of the Center Party today should not be seen as a support for the current government. We intend to continue pushing for a policy for more jobs in new and growing companies because that is what Sweden needs. The budget put on the table by the government is far from the budget proposed by the Center Party. However, the result of the elections last year meant that the Alliance is less than the budget base that the government has chosen to lean on. No matter how much we wish that the outcome of the elections had been different, this is a fact. Now is the time to take account of the parliamentary situation and continue to develop policies that need to be an alternative to government policies. The Center Party neither intends to form the basis of government for the Social Democrats nor intends to cooperate with the Swedish Democrats. We have said that all along, and we are saying that today as well. This too is why we will not support the motion of censure in today's vote.
i-1355c2314d348b14-42	Madam President, I would like The Left Party is today in opposition. We are the left-wing alternative in Swedish politics. We have not given and will not give our support to a government in which we ourselves do not belong. That is why we abstained from voting in the vote of censure in January and in the vote on Prime Minister after the elections. But we are an opposition party prepared to take responsibility. When others create chaos and celebrate it in champagne, we in the Left Party have chosen to negotiate a budget for Sweden that involves important investments in welfare, in housing and in reducing income differentials between men and women. Today's censure is directed against Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson but also against the budget that the Left Party has been involved in negotiating. It is a motion of censure against the necessary efforts in the care of the elderly, in the care of the elderly and in social services. It is a motion of censure against free glasses for children and against all children being entitled to meaningful activities during their summer holidays. It is a motion of censure against investments in young people's mental health, against free dental care for young people in Sweden and against free mammography. That is why the Left Party will today vote against the Swedish Democrats' motion of censure.
i-1355c2314d348b14-45	Madam President, I would like Sweden has a very uncertain parliamentary situation and a weak government. We are facing major challenges, and then it is time for responsibility. It's not time for a political game that just aims to create mess. Declarations of censure should be used responsibly and not as empty demonstrations against a government policy. The Liberals will therefore not support the motion of censure tabled against Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson. Instead, we will abstain. That does not mean, of course, that the Liberal Party supports the government's economic policy – quite the contrary. The policy of the left-wing government is detrimental to jobs, to confidence in the future and to growth in Sweden. At the next elections, together with the other alliance parties, we will seek the confidence of voters in a more liberal policy for more jobs, for more power over everyday life and for knowledge in school. The fact that we are abstaining in today's vote of censure is basically that we respect the fact that we lost government power in last year's elections. The motion of censure tool should be used by a parliament when there are strong reasons for it – not just because it is disappointed with an election result.
i-1355c2314d348b14-49	Madam President, I would like Declaration of trust is one of Parliament's tools to be used with caution and responsibility. It should not be used because it is generally dissatisfied with government policy. Declaration of censure is Parliament's ultimate means of power vis-à-vis the government. We Christian Democrats do not hesitate to use the parliamentary tools available to ensure respect for the role of Parliament and to review the government. The Christian Democrats will continue to demand responsibility from the government in opposition. We assume that the government will comply with the decisions made and taken by the Riksdag. The Christian Democrats are an active opposition party that runs an active opposition policy. Of course, this does not mean that we do not want to take responsibility at the same time in the difficult situation we are in. The Christian Democrats are abstaining today in the examination of the motion of censure against Magdalena Andersson. It shall not be construed as supporting the policy of the Government or the Minister for Finance. The policy of the left-wing government is detrimental to jobs, confidence in the future and growth in Sweden. However, Minister Andersson and the Government have presented a draft budget according to the usual decision-making process. The Parliament will examine the Government's budget and will normally examine and examine the proposals. As I said, our actions do not support the economic policy of the Minister for Finance and the Government. On the other hand, we have the election result we have. The Christian Democrats want an economic policy for community and belief in the future, for more jobs in growing companies, for more freedom for the family and for a stronger civil society. We want an economic policy with more Christian-democratic content, quite simply, and that is possible by re-establishing power with our friends in the other alliance parties. By 2018, Madam President, we will present joint proposals and ask for the confidence of voters. We want, together with the Alliance, to conduct an economic policy for a stronger Sweden.
i-1355c2314d348b14-55	Madam President, Members of Parliament. The European Council at the end of last week, as expected, was at the centre of the refugee crisis. Other issues on the agenda for the meeting were the deepening of EMU and a British referendum on EU membership. As regards the refugee crisis, we had a thorough discussion about what the EU has done and needs to do in the future. This includes both cooperation with other countries outside the EU and what we can do within the Union in this exceptional situation. Both in the preparatory bilateral talks I had with the President of the Commission and the European Council and at the meeting itself, it was important for me to continue to point out that this is not a responsibility for a few countries, such as Sweden, Germany and Austria, but a responsibility for the whole of the European Union. A first step is therefore that we must now ensure that what we have already agreed on is implemented. This means, among other things, that what is called hotspots is quickly getting started with its work, but not least the temporary redistributive mechanism agreed by the EU. I made it clear that Sweden has now assumed its responsibilities and received the first asylum seekers in the field of redistribution and that other Member States now have to do the same. Sweden cannot continue to receive unless other Member States do the same. It's clear. I, along with others, also stated that the EU must move forward and decide on a permanent redistribution mechanism that applies to all countries. Those of us who are in favour of it were then written into the text that the discussions on the Commission's proposal, as it is said, should continue. It will now be mainly for the migration ministers to take forward. Once again, I highlighted the issue of legal pathways into the EU. However, as I have been clear on the EU Board, and here too Sweden is very lonely on this issue. Border issues were also discussed at the meeting. As the situation is now, we see that events in one Member State are having a direct impact on other Member States. We need to have control at our external borders, both in order to have a well-functioning asylum system and in order to ensure that free movement within the EU is not threatened. That is why we need to work together on border issues. It's quite obvious. But, as I pointed out very clearly at the meeting, enhanced cooperation should not affect the ability of each Member State to protect its own borders and should not affect the fact that border control is a national responsibility. That is why it was important and gratifying that we had an addition to the text of the conclusion which states exactly that. Otherwise, we agreed that there must be order and order in the reception of refugees. Reception, asylum examination and possible return shall be carried out in an effective and legally secure manner. Those who do not have asylum reasons must return. It is a prerequisite for us to be able to help those people who really have reason to stay. It was therefore a good thing that we were able to agree on conclusions on this. We also had a discussion on Turkey, Jordan and Lebanon, all of which take a great deal of responsibility for refugees in the wake of the war in Syria, with particular focus on Turkey. At the meeting, the President of the Commission, Mr Juncker, reported back from recent talks with Turkey on a joint action plan in the field of migration. The European Council welcomed this. In this context, there are some important elements that are worth highlighting: firstly, it is, of course, a question of ending the war in Syria – it is a fundamental condition. Secondly, it is a question of supporting Turkey and neighbouring countries to deal with the situation they are currently in. Thirdly, it is about how Turkey can strengthen its capacity in various areas, such as combating and dealing with trafficking in human beings. It is good that we can make progress in this area, because Turkey is a key player in a sustainable solution to the refugee problem. While we are open to more support and cooperation with Turkey, we were clear that this cooperation is based on clear expectations of further reforms and deeper democratisation. At the meeting, we also discussed and adopted conclusions on Syria. As far as Syria is concerned, it is good that the conclusions clarify Al-A Sad's responsibility for the major tragedies and the UN's responsibility for the political process forward, as well as the EU's support for the UN process. In addition to the refugee crisis, we dealt briefly with the issue of deepening EMU and the British referendum on EU membership. As regards the deepening of EMU, there was above all a progress report on how work has continued since the so-called Five Presidents' report came this summer. On the issue of the United Kingdom, we received a progress report on what is known as technical talks, which are now taking place between representatives of the United Kingdom and representatives of the European institutions. But there is not much new information at the moment. We are expected to return to both the question of the further deepening of EMU and the issue of the UK referendum at the December summit. This, Madam President, was the report back from the European Council. I would just like to add a few words about the bilateral talks I had with the President of the Commission, Mr Juncker, and the President of the European Council, Mr Tusk. With Mr Juncker in particular, I discussed the refugee crisis and the work for a more social Europe. I explained that the migratory pressure that exists on Sweden is, of course, exhausting and the challenges we face. Juncker was very grateful for the responsibility that Sweden takes in the EU and was also interested in how the Commission could possibly assist. We also talked about the work for a more social Europe and the pillar of social rights recently announced by Mr Juncker. We agreed to continue to have a close dialogue on how this work should be developed. With the President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Tusk, I discussed the refugee crisis, the challenges facing Sweden and the EU, and how the work ahead should be carried out. I pointed out that Sweden wants to see developed border cooperation but that it should also be based on countries being responsible for their borders. We also talked about developments in Ukraine and Russia. While some progress is apparently taking place, it seems increasingly doubtful that the Minsk Agreement will be implemented by 31 December this year. If that is the case, it is important that we extend the sanctions that already exist. Mr Tusk is well prepared for the December European Council to address this issue.
i-1355c2314d348b14-74	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his report on the European Council meeting. Yesterday, together with a parliamentary delegation and Vice-President Tobias Billström, I visited the Swedish Migration Agency in Malmö. I can speak for all of us when I say that you are very taken when you are there and hear the report that the very good staff at the M igrationsverket make of the situation but also when you see all the coming who have walked and walked with danger for their lives and have now reached Sweden. It was a very confusing experience, at least for me. For us to be able to help more people, there must be a redistribution in the European Union. As I have said, the Prime Minister, together with Merkel and the Austrian Chancellor, has pushed the issue and, against all odds, managed to create a temporary redistributive mechanism which must of course become permanent. I would just like the Prime Minister, following the decision taken in the Council, to report on stage two and what will happen in the future. This is an incredibly important issue, and it really is important that we hold on to it. At the same time, we must ensure that there is a good return for those who do not have asylum grounds. In order to safeguard the right to asylum, which is a human and fundamental right, we must have a very effective system for those who do not have the right to reside in our country, because we do indeed have regulated immigration. I would also like the State Mince to develop something about how we have thought about the European level about this issue of return. Then I very much agree with the Prime Minister's efforts to raise social issues in the European Union.
i-1355c2314d348b14-79	Madam President, I would like Marie Granlund raises a very important question about how we are moving forward now. The first thing that needs to be done is the implementation of stage one – what we have already decided on – with regard to the redistribution of the total of 160 000. It's just begun. Sweden was also the first country to receive. We received people from Eritrea who were then in Italy. Now I have indicated that Sweden, which already receives by far the most per capita, should not also take its share of this while all other countries sit still. I've said it won't be like that. Now the other countries must show their feet and take their part. Then there is step two. As I said, just admit it's not an easy task. A number of countries, not least the so-called Visegrad countries, are very opposed to a compulsory system. I will be honest with you in this House. The core issue is the binding system. For those countries, the key issue is whether the EU and the Commission or the nation should be able to decide on this. Somewhere there is the core issue. And somewhere there is also the solution, I think. It's not easy to find. However, we have now emphasised that it is far from full that some countries should continue to do so. I strongly argued that the mere fact that so-called hotspots are now being organised suggests that we need a redistributive mechanism. What will happen to the people who are there? We weren't planning on keeping them in these hotspots. My somewhat rhetorical question to the others was whether they would have sent those people to Germany, Sweden and Austria as well. It won't hold. We need a redistributive mechanism. It will not be easy to get in place. But we have to push. Several countries see this need.
i-1355c2314d348b14-84	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his reply. Sometimes, with some reason, the present situation may seem to be night black. But there's still light. We have achieved an EU decision on a redistributive mechanism. More people will be able to get protection. Now, as I said, it's about moving on and implementing this. It's not easy. But the Prime Minister has a large majority in Parliament behind him in this regard. I would also like to emphasise that, as the Prime Minister said, the social dimension of the European Union is important. There have been a lot of savings; many workers' rights have been violated. Do we have any allies in the struggle to highlight the social dimension? Can the Prime Minister say a few words about that?
i-1355c2314d348b14-87	Madam President, I would like I forgot to answer the question about the return. It is included in the conclusions, not least in the run-up to the Valletta meeting with the African countries. It's about how we can coordinate return in a better way. Strategy work is underway. As far as the social pillar is concerned, I have mentioned it with Mr Juncker before. He himself has made it clear that he wants a social pillar next to the other work, because it is important for the EU to reflect social responsibility. Several countries are interested in this. We had a meeting in June, before the European Council then, with the Benelux countries, among others. Poland also participated. We do not have exactly the same view on the matter. However, several countries see the need to develop a social pillar. So that job will go on quite intensively during the spring, I think.
i-1355c2314d348b14-89	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his return. We Moderates have long been pushing for more EU countries to do more to take responsibility for the refugee crisis we are seeing now. As the Prime Minister has mentioned, it is not sustainable in the long run that in principle only Sweden and Germany take responsibility. It is to be welcomed that we have agreed on the redistribution of 160 000 refugees and that Sweden has already been able to receive them. At the same time, however, other Member States are lagging behind. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister about what he described last week as partial MEPs in Brussels. When are we to see the results, that is, how are the other Member States to be persuaded to actually assume their responsibilities? And when does the Prime Minister think we can see it in real life? We share the ambition. But how can the Prime Minister and Sweden press further? My second question concerns Frontex. During the consultation last week, before the European Council, the Prime Minister assured us that the enhanced and strengthened mandate of Frontex would not restrict the sovereignty of the Member States. Nevertheless, the Council conclusions read that Frontex's mandate should be extended so that Frontex can act on its own initiative. I would like clear answers. How does the Prime Minister view the extended mandate? How did the discussions go? What was actually said about what kind of mandates and what extended mandates for Frontex Member States want? How will Frontex change in concrete terms? And how can it affect Sweden if Frontex is given greater responsibility?
i-1355c2314d348b14-94	Madam President, I would like When it comes to more people doing more, I mean that the decisions on the 40 000 plus 120 000 were partial. I have also made it clear that this is not enough. Now it is important, above all, to ensure that it is implemented. For this reason, I have also said that it cannot be that Sweden, which already receives the most per capita, should also receive its share of this but that the others do not accept its parts. It can't work that way. Unfortunately, some countries would like to extend this. But there are also countries that have signed up and said that they want to be part of this. One such country is Finland. There are more countries that have said that they are prepared to accept their parts – a country I do not remember now and should not guess which it is. Unfortunately, however, it has been delayed for other reasons. Practical handling simply needs to get started. But it is not the way that no other country wants to do anything. There are ambitions. H elt sure is that v i must lie on all the time for this to happen, for all countries. As far as Frontex and the mandate are concerned, it was, of course, discussed. Paragraph 2h sets out, inter alia, in compliance with the distribution of companies under the law. The piece also ends with: the need for robust and prompt action in cooperation with the memberstates concerned. The Council takes the view that Frontex could of course take the initiative, but that they must also pick up the phone to the Member States concerned by some kind of action. There is no doubt that the Member States also look at it that way. It may be that some country feels that Frontex could take over. But I can guarantee that Sweden is not alone in thinking that national competence must apply.
i-1355c2314d348b14-97	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister. Nevertheless, I would like the Prime Minister to develop how the Government and the Prime Minister view the change in Frontex's mandate. Could it affect Sweden? In such cases, in what way? I would also like to mention how the implementation of so-called hotspots is really going to work? How did that discussion go? We can read in the report that work on hotspots should be accelerated. But I have not yet seen a detailed description of how they can actually work. That is my follow-up question.
i-1355c2314d348b14-100	Madam President, I would like With regard to the Frontex mandate, it is up to Sweden to decide how much support we want from Frontex because it is also a national matter. I can well imagine situations where there is coordinated work and Frontex can make a contribution. But, once again, Frontex cannot initiate and implement an operation without Sweden having been involved in the process and deciding and approving. It remains to be seen, but it is very up to ourselves if we want to participate and if so, in what way. In the case of hotspots, the aim is to identify and register there. Then the redeployment will take place. Practical preparatory work is under way. It is said that it will be ready in November. There may be doubts about that. But that's how it's supposed to be. And that work is now taking place in Greece and Italy in particular.
i-1355c2314d348b14-102	Madam President, I would like The world is now in the most extreme situation as regards the number of refugees in the world since World War II. It is not only in the world that we find ourselves in an extreme situation. Even in Sweden, we are very much in the most extreme situation in modern times. At the present time, we are receiving about 10 000 asylum seekers a week. That is equivalent to 520 000 people per year. It is a reception rate that will have major consequences for Swedish society and for the welfare, cohesion and workers. Are there jobs to offer all these people? It will also mean that we will be able to allocate less resources to the neighbourhoods in order to help more people on the ground. On the ground you have much more opportunities to help many more people. The situation we find ourselves in today, with the attitude of the Swedish Government and the other opposition, is a non-human approach to dealing with the current extreme situation in the outside world. In this situation, the Prime Minister, with the support of the other opposition throughout the Swedish Parliament, chooses to go to the summit and demand a permanent redistribution of refugees in Europe. We have already decided from the European side to introduce a temporary redistribution that helped to increase reception in Sweden rather than reduce it. I would like to ask the Prime Minister why we want to increase reception in Sweden? Why do we want to make a redistribution that increases reception when we are already faced with such an extreme situation? I also question the talk on humanitarian visas. If you are serious about order in the reception of refugees, why do you want to increase the reception? That is precisely what this decision will lead to.
i-1355c2314d348b14-107	Madam President, I would like The redistribution in Europe is part of the strategy to end the conflict and the reason why people need to flee and to increase resources to the regions in the immediate region. We have a very large amount of humanitarian aid inside Syria. This also applies to Jordan, Lebanon and others. We think it is important for the 28 Member States of the European Union to help each other with this and to distribute it within Europe so that not only some people receive it. It will, of course, be the case that if only a few receive it, it will be those countries that continue to have the pressure. If a distribution is made within the European Union, on which we have agreed and decided, all the Member States of the European Union are involved in the work. I still think it is extremely important that we achieve this. It does not say anything about a redistribution to Europe, but it is people who exist in Europe. They are the ones to be redistributed so that other countries also assume their responsibilities. That's the idea of that job.
i-1355c2314d348b14-110	Madam President, I would like I don't think I got an answer to my question. We agree that we want to increase support for the neighbourhood. We just want to increase the support much more than the government and other opposition parties in the Riksdag want. It's in the neighborhood we can help all these people. We do not have the capacity to receive all these people in Europe. My main question is that Sweden takes an unscrupulous part. Sweden stands out completely colossal a lot. In this situation, the government and the opposition want to introduce so-called humanitarian visas, which will further increase pressure on Sweden and Europe. It also wants to carry out a permanent redistribution, although the temporary redeployment led to an increase in reception to Sweden from Italy and Greece. They want to redistribute the reception from those countries that receive a smaller share than Sweden does to increase it in Sweden. It is a wrong policy. We must separate the concepts and discuss what distinguishes our policies from those of the government, and the government must respond to my questions. We have a large silent majority that deserves answers.
i-1355c2314d348b14-114	Madam President, I would like We in the European Union agree on increased support for the neighbourhood. We need more support, not least for Turkey, but also for Jordan and Lebanon. That strategy is solid. Nevertheless, people are coming to Europe, to our continent. The question then is: should all the EU Member States help each other in this, or should only some take that responsibility? My attitude is clear. Al la will be helped to take that responsibility. As far as legal channels are concerned, this is a legitimate discussion. We have people coming to us who are going through the most horrendous journeys. It may be that, in cooperation with, for example, the UNHCR, the EU can ensure that the part that is forced to risk their lives on the run is reduced so that they have a completely different journey to the EU. This does not automatically mean that there are several.
i-1355c2314d348b14-116	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask the Prime Minister more about what Karin Enström mentioned about Frontex and whether there is clarity about how to allocate administrative responsibility if one country invites others. Is it quite clear how to demand responsibility for those who act if they do wrong so that there is a clear chain? I have a second question. We are pleased that Sweden has invested extra money, and several other countries have promised extra money to help in the neighbourhood. But what did the other countries say? Would the extra money be in place? It is stated in the conclusions that there should be education and employment in the camps. But care is just as important. It is enough with an infected person with extremely resistant TB. Imagine when winter comes with damp tents. There is a great risk of the spread of infection which is extremely difficult to combat. What about the possibility of care with today's money levels? Many countries finance a large part of their efforts with a deduction from aid. What about the Valletta Conference if we want to seek the support of African countries? How will the EU make sure to redistribute within its own framework? Were there any countries that said: Yes, we are willing to inject more resources? My last question concerns negotiations with Russia. We can have sanctions, stand and be angry at each other and think they're doing everything wrong. They also make a lot of mistakes. But if we are to find solutions, we also need to talk to each other. Is there a roadmap for discussions with Russia both with regard to Ukraine and the Syria conflict? Were there any concrete initiatives to have a dialogue with them, to make clear demands but also to open a dialogue that works?
i-1355c2314d348b14-120	Madam President, I would like I cannot answer the details of the responsibilities that exist with regard to Frontex. The European Council has not discussed this. It will be designed how it will work in concrete terms. My point is that if a country wants support or intends to assist, it is up to the country itself to decide. We would like to be part of the collaboration for the Swedish part. But we do not want a message all of a sudden: now Frontex will do this and this on Swedish soil. That is the kind of distinction that it is important to make. We'll get back to you with the details. It also applies to whether health care will be included in the aid. I can be quite honest and say that it is not easy to fill the various funds that the European Union wants to use for cooperation. There, of course, everyone is allowed to follow their own conscience. But we have to make sure it's there. If it isn't there, there's the problem again. One such example is the discussion with the African countries in Valletta in November. Sweden has nothing to be ashamed of in this respect. We are one of the absolute powers of humanitarian aid. We need to be able to face up to the discussion with Africa so that there are real resources so that we can have a real dialogue on what can be done in Africa so that people do not have to flee. It also applies to the legal ways of those who wish to enter the European Union. Finally, it concerns discussions with Russia. There is a large part of France and Germany and what they are involved in. The European Council has said that as long as that dialogue works where Germany and France draw a big load, we think they should have that mandate, and we are, of course, informed. So far, we do not see the possibility of ending sanctions, for example.
i-1355c2314d348b14-125	Madam President, I would like Of course, you cannot end the sanctions until you have achieved the objectives that you have set with them. But it is important that there is a dialogue so that there is an opportunity to start a process that can lead the right way. I am seriously concerned and would like to follow up on my question about the money. We are facing a vital meeting of the planet in Paris, and I believe that one key to achieving success there is to bring the G77 countries with us. Now we have a chance to meet them before in Valetta. We do not want more climate refugees, and we do not want more people in need. Then I think it is important that it is not just about the existence of money resources and that the EU can possibly redistribute within the framework or otherwise free up resources, but for the summit to succeed, these countries must trust us. Then it is important to show that there is technology transfer and all the instruments that enable these countries to save their own populations.
i-1355c2314d348b14-127	Madam President, I would like The dialogue with Russia is taking place in the format that we have chosen, where Germany and France are leading forces. There is an infrastructure for that dialogue, and we want to support it. As far as the G77 and Paris are concerned, I naturally share the view that if we do not manage the environment properly, we have even more refugees around the world. That's what we're already seeing. But that is not what was discussed here, and it is quite correct that it is both money and technology transfer that is needed. If that is the type of question, we all have the opportunity to assist in other parts of the world, and I do not see that there is any shared opinion on that. The difficulty now is to get money into the funds that enable us to show that we are serious here and now.
i-1355c2314d348b14-129	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for the European Council report. My question is, as before, about Frontex and the mandate given to Frontex. I ask in the light of the fact that I understood that the Prime Minister was in full agreement with the European Council last Wednesday when this issue was discussed, namely that Frontex's mandate should be based on national competence in relation, for example, to border surveillance. I note from paragraph 2(h) of the conclusions that the Prime Minister has also stated that it is established that the mandate of 2h is to be made in full respect of the national competences of the Member States. But, Madam President, now I come to my question. Paragraph 2(n) states in the Swedish translation of the conclusions that it extends Frontex's mandate on returnees to include the right to organise joint return operations on its own initiative and strengthen its role in obtaining travel documents for returnees. I wonder how the Prime Minister views this wording in relation to the mandate of the Prime Minister when he went down to the European Council. My second question relates briefly to the United Kingdom, and there is my question about the Prime Minister stated that one of the fundamental elements of the European Union, as I see it, is freedom of movement. So I wonder if the Prime Minister has established that this is the Swedish line.
i-1355c2314d348b14-132	Madam President, I would like As far as Frontex is concerned, it has been discussed exactly as I have said. Frontex can take initiatives, and it is not by definition wrong for them to do so if they see opportunities to coordinate different countries, but it is not, therefore, said that we have agreed to allow Frontex to enter the different countries as they wish or do what they want. That is not the case, but it is up to the Member States to approve it. We have made that clear. I would like to point out that Sweden is not alone in this view, but applies. That is why I referred to paragraph 2(h) and that wording. As far as the UK is concerned, we have only been given a representation of what debate is going on, but yes, the position of Sweden is clearly stated. It is also done in the bilateral talks. Now there was no discussion here at the European Council, but we were told that this process is going on and that it is coming back in December. But from the Swedish side I have said, for example, to the President of the Commission and the President-in-Office of the Council – we have said it before and we will say it again – that we will not accept a change that limits freedom of movement. Then we are on the nerve of Europe, or the soul of Europe, and it should not change. It is against the background of what the UK is now considering what issues can be put forward in a referendum, because one should also know that one can take it home in negotiations in the EU. That discussion is going on in internal politics there, but yes, it is clear where we stand on that issue.
i-1355c2314d348b14-135	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your comments, Prime Minister. Returning to the issue of Frontex, I note that the draft conclusions have therefore been filled with a statement that full respect should prevail for the national competences of the Member States in paragraph 2(h). This has not been done in paragraph 2(n). I just want to say in this House that I will continue to monitor so that it is the national competence that applies in this area. Anything else would be completely unreasonable as I see it. I would like to thank the Prime Minister for the same approach, as I understand it. However, please note that I will also be monitoring the Prime Minister's actions in this regard so that we do not have a horizontal body taking over this issue of border controls and the like.
i-1355c2314d348b14-138	Madam President, I would like As far as border controls are concerned, what I say to several countries is exactly the same. This is national competence. We will, of course, follow this, and I am pleased that Mr Erlandsson also wants to follow it, because we have exactly the same view.
i-1355c2314d348b14-139	Madam President, I would like If I have counted correctly, it was the fourth time now that there was a high-level meeting just in the last six months to discuss this issue. We've been here before discussing this, I'm afraid. For a liberal and warm EU supporter, it is sad when Council conclusions point out that concrete operational measures should be found, opportunities examined and calls on Member States and so on. It is not so much concrete, and I understand that the Prime Minister shares this slight frustration. We are talking about a permanent distribution mechanism, but there too other countries are slowing down. However, there is a strong emphasis on Frontex and border protection. We see that there has been a shift in tone, and that is a good thing, because we need a regulated asylum policy and immigration. However, strong border protection must also go hand in hand with more legal ways into the EU. Otherwise, we are building the Fort Europe that we have already been accused of doing. Now we see that border after border is closing. There are thousands of people, literally banging on the gates. Children are born without the possibility of being registered, receiving birth certificates or even a state. It's a total crisis and collapse we're looking at. It is quite incomprehensible to me that the countries of the European Union are unable to say that we cannot deal with this now, we have no Europe to rest on anymore. Then we can no longer stand and say that this should be the fortress of democracy and so on. There will be an untenable situation here at home too. We know that the tone turned quickly when we saw the terrible picture of the three - year - old child who had drowned. Then all of a sudden people here at home in Sweden realized that it was serious. It may just as well turn as municipality after municipality now actually, rightly, after heavy and tough efforts go on your knees. I would like to hear the Prime Minister's thoughts on what pressure mechanisms there are that the Prime Minister, together with like-minded people, can use now so that we can at least have a permanent redistribution within the European Union.
i-1355c2314d348b14-144	Madam President, I would like First, we need to implement the temporary redeployment. At the same time, we are on about the permanent. There are a few of us who are driving this. In addition, some people understand that something needs to be done. Furthermore, we have some who actually have little will in that direction and who understand what Tina Acketoft is talking about: if Europe fails to cope with this situation, the EU itself is in danger. It does not automatically mean a crash for the EU, but it will weaken the EU considerably. We do not know what the final result will be. That is one of the arguments I use in my discussion with these countries, both at the Council and bilaterally. We 28 need to think ahead and show that we are dealing with the situation, otherwise we are creating an even more serious situation. That's how we have to argue. But let me be honest with Parliament and say that it is not an easy argument. However, several see the need to find a solution. That is why I believe, as I mentioned earlier, that the key reasoning is whether the Commission or the Member States should take a decision. We must be ready to enter this debate. The main thing is that we get a permanent redistribution system that works. If we are not to have such a thing as the Commission or any other forum at least, I am afraid that we will be renegotiated after renegotiation at all times, and we do not have time for that. I promise we'll be on as best we can with like mindeds. We are also trying to broaden the group so that those who have been directly opposed are involved in the discussion to see what can be found that everyone can accept.
i-1355c2314d348b14-150	Madam President, I would like I thank the Prime Minister. Unfortunately, you can't put any ultimatums in this position. I welcome Turkey into the European Union on the day that Turkey meets the demands we are making on it, for example in terms of human rights and democracy. However, the EU has negotiated a little with the elbow. Finally, Turkey lost patience, and now they are heading the other way. If you cannot even guarantee democratic and human rights for your own population, you can hardly be considered a safe country. My fear is that if Turkey takes care of the problems at the borders, the EU will suddenly welcome Turkey. The Prime Minister has clearly stated that these discussions can only continue if Turkey maintains human rights, democratic processes and so on. Is it the general tone of the EU-28 that it is good that Turkey is helping but for further rapprochement with the EU, Turkey must uphold human rights and democracy?
i-1355c2314d348b14-156	Madam President, I would like Everyone sees Turkey as an important co-operator, but there must of course be a balance. It is one thing that the EU can provide funds, but the political discussion is something else. It concerns the EU's membership negotiations, visa liberalisation and so on. Moving forward with such an action plan with Turkey presupposes that you have a shared responsibility for it working. If you can make such an action plan credible, you can continue with visa liberalisation and so on – within the framework of what applies to visa liberalisation, for example, because it is not a country that gets a free track. You should follow the process that applies to everyone.
i-1355c2314d348b14-158	Madam President, I would like I thank the Prime Minister for reporting back. I, too, would like to focus on Turk and the situation there. A large proportion of the refugees who come to Europe come via Turkey. Turkey itself has also received many refugees, around 2 million. For a few weeks now, EU leaders have been discussing with Turkey how to help deal with the situation. Just as Tina Acketoft was concerned, it is natural for Turkey to impose certain counter-requirements in order to help. Financial support is one part, a visa for Turkish citizens wishing to travel to the EU is another part and renewed membership negotiations are a third part. At the same time, we are seeing increased internal tensions and escalating violence in Turkey. The terrible act of terror in Ankara is the latest example of this. There is also concern that Turkey, under President Erdo中an's leadership, is heading in the wrong direction. We Christian Democrats are pleased that the Prime Minister has been clear about Turkey. Perhaps I repeat the question to some extent, but how does the EU ensure that Turkey does not implode because of internal contradictions? How does the EU find a balance in which we can cooperate with Turkey on the refugee issue, which we need to do, and give something back, and can be clear with our views and expectations on Turkey's development in relation to democracy and human rights?
i-1355c2314d348b14-164	Madam President, I would like There are several parts to this. One is the Syria conflict. We need to do much more here, and here Turkey can play a role so that we calm down and, above all, end the conflict. Another is Turkey itself, both its ability to deal with this in the country and the fight against traffickers and such phenomena. The two political issues that have been raised and which make it clear to Turkey are visa liberalisation and membership negotiations. The EU needs Turkey, but Turkey also needs the EU. It is this interdependence that ultimately creates balance. Discussions on visa liberalisation are conducted within the framework of all countries that want visa liberalisation towards the EU. There are both technical and other processes that must be followed. You go step by step and bend off when you have come to a certain standard. In the end, you should have come all the way. The same applies to the accession negotiations. They are not without conditions, but are carried out in the same way. That is why it is expressed as it does in the conclusions, as an example: Successful implementation will contribute to accelerating the fulfillment of the show liberalization. But it is within the framework that already exists. For me, that's the structure we're supposed to hold. That's right.
i-1355c2314d348b14-172	Madam President, I would like I thank the Prime Minister for his reply. I would also like to focus on paragraph 2(e) of the conclusion that the Council calls on Member States to contribute further to efforts to support, inter alia, the UNHCR and the World Food Programme. It seems a wise priority because we have received regular reports from the organisations operating in Syria and in Syria's neighbouring countries that they have too little resources to cope with the very difficult situation. In their budget motion, the Christian Democrats have proposed a redistribution within the aid budget to release half a billion dollars to these UN agencies. Following the meeting and the conclusions, does the government plan to allocate additional funds to UNHCR and similar organisations? Will the pool of forces we now see bring these organisations into financial balance in order to cope with the situation?
i-1355c2314d348b14-177	Madam President, I would like The draft budget includes an increase to the UNHCR. We have also said that we are ready to earmark more for Syria of the funding already given to the UNHCR. We are traditionally more for the unallocated, but in this situation we can see the need for this plus an addition to the World Food Programme. Sweden has already announced this, and there has been no review after the meeting last week.
i-1355c2314d348b14-179	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for the report. One issue mentioned by the Prime Minister was this by legal means. In principle, we have no legal routes for refugees to Europe, except the quota refugee system. However, there is a legal road to Sweden in the form of labour migration. Was this an example that the Prime Minister highlighted at the meeting? As regards hotspots, the Council's conclusions under point (k) state that Member States promise to fully support efforts to set up new hotspots and provide the necessary resources. Then, Madam President, I would like to ask what resources Sweden might be able to contribute in the form of expertise, for example. Madam President, I would like When the Prime Minister consulted us on the EU Board last week, he mentioned that, in addition to bilateral meetings with Juncker and Tusk, he would also have a bilateral meeting with Trade Commissioner Malmström. I just want to make sure that such a meeting took place and ask a question about the proposal to introduce a new high penalty and minimum price for electrical steel. I assume that the Prime Minister highlighted this issue in his meeting with Trade Commissioner Malmström because it is a fundamental issue for Swedish jobs, including ABB's production of transformers in Ludvika, a facility employing 1 400 people. So I just want to make sure that the Prime Minister took the opportunity to raise this issue in his bilateral meeting with Trade Commissioner Malmström.
i-1355c2314d348b14-183	Madam President, I would like As far as so-called hotspots are concerned, we agree that all Member States should help with them. It is a key element of the strategy to provide refugees with the best possible reception and then to redistribute across the EU so that all Member States are involved. In the first place, a total of nine hotspots are being organised in Greece and Italy respectively, and we are willing to contribute with human resources, i.e. expertise. How can we help with such things as identification and registration? But I would also like to be careful to say that in the strained situation that Sweden now has, it is not easy to spare even human resources. Authorities must, of course, be allowed to decide what opportunities there are. However, this is the type of support that we have already provided, and we can continue to do so on condition that we can deal with our own situation. Yes, I had a meeting with Commissioner Malmström, and I raised the issue of the tariffs on electromagnetic steel. Answer: yes.
i-1355c2314d348b14-186	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. It is good that Sweden can contribute with expertise in the establishment of new hotspots, but I share the Prime Minister's view that Sweden is in a strained position and has difficulty avoiding competence. We have a great reception here in Sweden right now, and the situation is, to say the least, strained. It is therefore particularly important that we push for other countries that do not receive the same amount of money to take greater responsibility for contributing to the establishment of these efforts. Madam President, I would like It is also gratifying that the Prime Minister had a meeting with Trade Commissioner Malmström and highlighted the issue of penal duties. Then, of course, I am curious about what the Prime Minister raised more concretely and not least what answers the Prime Minister received. There is a broad consensus here in the Swedish Parliament to work for increased free trade and less protectionism. This is, of course, a proposal that is fundamentally wrong and that risks hitting Swedish jobs hard. I very much hope that the Prime Minister underlined the importance of Mrs Malmström withdrawing this proposal.
i-1355c2314d348b14-188	Madam President, I would like Johan Hultberg can be calm. That was the intention of raising the issue. Commissioner Malmström referred to a number of rules that it considers necessary to comply with, hence this decision that is taken at regular intervals. The issue is complex, not least because not all countries think it is wrong. That decision lies where it is. I have raised this and, of course, pointed out the risk, and the Commissioner is very well aware of that problem, so it is nothing new to her either.
i-1355c2314d348b14-190	Madam President, I would like The Prime Minister mentioned the work for peace in Syria, and that is something that the Prime Minister has been talking about several times in the past when he has re-reported from the European Council meetings. Since the last re-report, Russia and Turkey have entered the war, and the situation has worsened. It is positive that we have a prime minister who is committed to peace. But, Madam President, it is all the more ridiculous that the Prime Minister should come back and want to give the House the impression that he is making peace in Syria. The UN signals that it sees the war in Syria going on for ten years. This means that the refugee situation we are confronted with here in Sweden is probably the new common situation. Then it is not without getting the feeling that the Prime Minister wants to move the focus away from the fact that he lacks a solution to deal with the situation that has arisen here in Sweden. Instead, he talks about creating a peace that it is quite unlikely to bring about through international diplomacy, especially given that one of the warring parties is the Islamic State, which is perhaps the most brutal and fanatical political movement of our time. The same applies to the Prime Minister's focus, that we are now in the process of establishing a distribution model for the reception of refugees. It is quite clear that the model that has now been discussed will not remedy the situation here in Sweden. I think that the Prime Minister must be clearer about what his agenda is to solve what lies in Sweden. However, it is Sweden's electorate that he is the representative of down in Brussels.
i-1355c2314d348b14-195	Madam President, I would like I believe that Fredrik Schulte – perhaps even consciously – has misunderstood. I've never claimed to make peace in Syria. However, I think that the conflict, which is in its fifth year, is so serious that it is time for many to think about how to stop the conflict. I have made it clear that the largest and most important players are the United States and Russia. In addition, the remaining three permanent states of the Security Council, as well as the entire international community, are important players. The EU also plays an important role, and the issue is now on the agenda in talks with all parties involved. It concerns Saudi Arabia, Iran and all regional players. To make this some kind of attack and say that we are trying to broker peace is beneath one's dignity, I think. The fact that we are all working together in different ways to put pressure on those who really can make a difference is natural, and I intend to continue to do so, whether or not we consider it to be brokering peace. We have a responsibility here. It's a country that's about to end. The war is in its fifth year. Then I think it is natural for everyone to be involved and help to see how pressure can be put on to bring about something that can be a peace talks. We are clear that we support the UN process. There is a special envoy for that mission, Staffan de Mis Tura. I have spoken to him, and I can assure you that he wants all the support he can get in his process, and we intend to give that both as a single country and within the framework of the European Union. We are now going to put our hope in the UN process to make a difference. I intend to continue to work for this, no matter what Fredrik Schulte describes it as.
i-1355c2314d348b14-200	Madam President, I would like Everyone in here is for working for peace in Syria. There's no one to question that. What I question is that the Prime Minister stands here and places great emphasis on issues that are clearly not going to solve the situation that we have here in Sweden. Less than a week ago, in a press conference, the Prime Minister told us that tent camps would be set up to cope with the reception of asylum. We have a situation where between 1 000 and 2 000 people come to Sweden as refugees every day. It is clear that the Prime Minister has no solution to the problems. He does not have an agenda in Europe to solve the problems. He makes himself dependent on Hungary's fence. Nor does he have a national political solution here in Sweden. To move the focus away from that is the Prime Minister here talking about peace in Syria, when it is very likely that it will not work out. That is what I criticise, Madam President.
i-1355c2314d348b14-203	Madam President, I would like Then I'll take it again. Different perspectives are needed. One of them is the Syria conflict. If we do not end it, people will continue to flee. Another perspective is strong humanitarian aid in Syria, but also in Lebanon, Jordan and the other neighbourhood where people are now gathering. A third perspective is the EU. Europe must do this together. The 28 Member States of the European Union must do this together. You cannot point to Germany, Austria and Sweden and say that you must take care of it, but all the Member States of the European Union must do so. Linked to that is the question of how we handle borders, how to return and how to confer with African countries and help there, so that people do not have to flee for various reasons. Another perspective is what we do here at home. How do we manage migration and reception as well as possible despite the arrival of so many people? How do we get people who have been granted asylum into society in the best possible way with education, jobs and so on? There are several perspectives, but it is a very important coherent strategy.
i-1355c2314d348b14-208	Madam President, I would like One issue that has not been touched on very much either in the reporting process or in the question is the deepening of monetary union. The Prime Minister said when he was on the EU Board last time that the goal was for the EU-28 to be involved in the discussions. Was there any discussion at all? Was it possible for the Prime Minister to make that point? If so, how did the EMU countries react?
i-1355c2314d348b14-209	Madam President, I would like Yes, there was a brief discussion on this too. It stressed the importance of this being a matter for all 28 EU Member States. That is why the text looks like it does in the conclusions. I jump right into one sentence: must be taken forward in full respect of the single market and in an open and transparent manner. This is the expression that it must be done openly and with full respect for the single market, which means all 28 Member States.
i-1355c2314d348b14-210	Madam President, I would like This is an interesting question. In view of this, the Committee on Finance has taken the initiative to make a so-called investigation of this, that is to say, to make a report and then have a debate in this House. I believe there will be a discussion throughout the autumn. However, there are still some worrying signs from the five Presidents, including the desire in principle for a common fiscal policy and a common finance minister. This is something we need to examine and monitor so that we do not have a more federal Europe in the future.
i-1355c2314d348b14-212	Madam President, I would like I share Börje Vestlund's concerns. Overall, how can different speeds be developed in the EU while maintaining the full potential of the EU-28? That question is perfectly justified. What we wanted to ensure at this point was that any changes are made with respect for the EU-28 and with transparency towards and participation of the remaining EU, which is not members of EMU. I welcome the discussion, of course. It is extremely important and extremely difficult. How do we manage this balancing process? We really already have two speed Europe, but we can get three speed Europe. Then it won't be easier to stick together. I fully share the legitimate concerns expressed by Börje Vestlund in relation to the issue.
i-1355c2314d348b14-214	Madam President, I would like The last European Council discussed enhanced cooperation within the euro area. This is something we've seen before. The five presidents' report has been welcomed by the Government and the Prime Minister. It means a greater federalisation of economic policy in the European Union. We from the Swedish Democrats have repeatedly pointed out that Sweden has a referendum result from 2003 which means that the Swedish people have said no to the euro. Nevertheless, Sweden does not have a negotiated permanent derogation from the introduction of the euro. However, countries such as Denmark and England have such a permanent exception. In the light of the pressure to federalise economic policy in Europe, which we regard as very worrying, I have a question for the Prime Minister. When will the Prime Minister and the Government negotiate a permanent derogation for the introduction of EMU in Sweden? As I said, we have a referendum result that is very clear. The Swedish people do not want the euro. It is important for the government to respect this result and to say no to all federalisation and centralisation of economic policy, but above all to say no to Sweden having to adopt the euro. As it stands today, as I said, we have no permanent exception. We are actually bound to adopt the euro in the long term. I would like to hear the Prime Minister answer the question. When will the government and the Prime Minister negotiate such an exception for Sweden as well? In the past, the Prime Minister has addressed these issues by saying that it is not something that is being discussed at European Council meetings. However, if the issue is never raised, it goes without saying that it will not be taken up by anyone else either. The question is when the Prime Minister intends to work in this direction.
i-1355c2314d348b14-220	Madam President, I would like Had I seen any risk that this issue might be on the agenda, we would probably have worked on it. But it's a non-question. There is no country or convention that says that Sweden should now join EMU. Nobody says: When are you going to join EMU? With all due respect, I think there is a great deal to be done on other issues, where we really have problems, including issues of the kind we have discussed here. That's where we put the emphasis. There is no requirement for Sweden to be part of EMU. On the other hand, it is an extremely important discussion that Mrs Vestlund mentioned before: how should EMU and the EU-28 relate to each other in the event that EMU is to move forward in its development? If you have a single currency, I can of course understand that you also have thoughts about how to coordinate your economic policy and how to structure it. It's quite a legitimate discussion for them. Nevertheless, it is important that it be carried out in such a way that those who are not part of EMU are also involved in the process, that it does not fall out in such a way that the EU-28 is put at risk. That discussion is extremely important. But to now keep on bringing up any discussion on a non-issue is surely not of the highest priority.
i-1355c2314d348b14-223	Madam President, I would like The Prime Minister calls my question a non-question. Let me remind the Prime Minister that it is definitely not a question for a large majority of Swedish voters. A very large majority of the Swedish people do not want the euro in Sweden. At the same time, however, as I pointed out in my previous speech, we do not have a permanent exception. Denmark and England have such a permanent exception. Sweden doesn't have it. I believe that the Prime Minister and the Government see this as a non-issue and have no problem with the fact that in the longer term we will have to adopt the euro, despite the fact that we have had a referendum where a majority of the Swedish people have said no to it. My interpretation of the European economic policy pursued by the government is that it says yes to all the proposals that are constantly being made on centralisation and federalisation. There are never any objections to or views on the transfer of power from the individual parliaments to the EU. One logical consequence of this is that there will also be no problems on the day that we in Sweden too are forced to adopt the euro.
i-1355c2314d348b14-226	Madam President, I would like It is a very hasty conclusion of Pavel Gamov. We have just discussed an issue relating to borders and competence. Who is obliged to handle the borders of the country? What is said is that it is a national responsibility, thanks to the fact that we have been clear on this issue. There is a reason to raise it. A non-question is that, not for the reason that one should have any discussion about whether or not we should be there. We have had a referendum in Sweden, and that is the result. I have been asked countless questions about it: Could this be the next term of office? When can this be? I have said that I cannot see when this will happen, nor will the next parliamentary term. If the Swedish population were to decide on this far in the future, I cannot control it. But that is not the case now, and there is no one asking us to join EMU. To then start a discussion that we should not have to join something that no one requires us to join feels a little redundant.
i-1355c2314d348b14-233	Madam President, I would like Fredrik Schulte has asked me how I relate to the calculations that point to the fact that the reduction of the job tax credit will not lead to the tax revenue stated in the budget proposal and to the very robust research support available to support the increase in marginal taxes leading to fewer hours worked. The calculations referred to by Fredrik Schulte refer to possible public financial effects in the long term. The budget proposal presents the effects for the next few years, and these are the effects that the Riksdag should consider. For these effects, any long-term behavioural effects are less relevant, especially for the financial year. I would also like to stress here that there has been no change in the way the budgetary impact is calculated and reported since the last parliamentary term. The budgetary impact shown in the budget is similar to the previous static effect. On the other hand, projections of macroeconomic developments and public financial savings make an overall assessment of the impact of government policies on, for example, employment and GDP. As far as research into marginal taxes and labour supply is concerned, I am well aware that taxes can affect people's behaviour. However, it is not only taxes that affect the labour market, and it is therefore misleading to assess policies on the basis of individual financing measures. After the previous government's term of office with large unfunded tax cuts, we now have large deficits in central government finances and, at the same time, unemployment that has stuck to high levels. In order to implement urgent efforts which, among other things, can contribute to increasing employment and reducing unemployment, the tax must now be increased. The reduction of the job tax credit provides the necessary tax revenue and has a good distribution profile.
i-1355c2314d348b14-236	Madam President, I would like The reason we are having this debate is that the government has decided that it wants to scale down the job tax deduction for those who have a little higher income. This means that the person who earns, for example, 50 000 SEK a month – we can say that it is a doctor – and who chooses to work an extra hour in addition to the 40 hours a week that he or she will be working will only be allowed to keep 20 SEK for each hundred dollar that he or she earns. There is strong research support because this is a bad policy, because this will mean that high-income people will work less. The doctor will refrain from taking the extra hour on call because it is simply not profitable. It is better to spend that hour with the family instead or to engage in some form of recreational interest that one has. As I said, there is strong support for this in research in general. A great deal of criticism has also been levelled at the government for this particular measure. The Institute of Economics has pointed out that this will very well be the effect. The Council of Finance Ministers has done the same. One of Sweden's leading researchers, Lennart Flood, professor emeritus from the University of Gothenburg, has looked at the issue in particular and concluded that it may even be that the measure in the long term gives less money to the state. Then Magdalena Andersson says: But we shouldn't care so much about it, because we have to look at the overall budget. It is then interesting to look at the overall budget. Independent assessors, such as Konjunkturinstitutet, the Financial Policy Council and the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, say that the policy now presented by the government will lead to approximately 20,000 fewer jobs. And the government itself darkens all the calculations that account for how the government's policy would hit the Swedish economy and against employment. If Magdalena Andersson absolutely wants to raise taxes – I understand that she wants that from her ideological point of view – I wonder: Why does she have to raise the taxes that harm the Swedish economy at all costs? Me and Magdalena Andersson would probably have argued if she had raised another tax. But her raising the most harmful taxes on the economy is very strange. Then I fully agree with Magdalena Andersson that the whole is important and that it is important to continue to invest in health care, school and care. It is not that whole that we from the Alliance and the Moderates criticise, but what we criticise is that 75% of what the government invests does not go to health care, school and care, but to grants, subsidies and labour market policies that harm Sweden. So the whole thing is crazy, and in the specific case, the tax increase is crazy. There is a risk that in the long term it will even give you less tax money than it is now. Then Magdalena Andersson answers that she does not care about the long-term. I think it's amazing that we have a finance minister who just thinks about getting to spend here and now and doesn't think about the long-term for Sweden's welfare and woe.
i-1355c2314d348b14-243	Madam President, I would like Fredrik Schulte should be a little careful to put words in your mouth that you have not said. We use the computational conventions that the Ministry of Finance has used since the 1990s crisis. These are static computational conventions. The last government used them. We use them. There was a time when bourgeois government did not use static calculations. This led to historically large deficits, to the appearance of interest rates and to the lack of confidence in capital markets. It is after the experience of bourgeois governments that this type of static calculations has been switched to and does not use dynamic calculations. Fredrik Schulte believes that the most damaging thing for the economy is the degression of the job tax credit. The most damaging thing Fredrik Schulte can imagine is that someone who has SEK 51 000 in salary would receive a tax increase of 30 cones a month and that someone who has SEK 55 000 in salary would receive a tax increase of SEK 150 a month. I do not share Fredrik Schultes's view that this is the most damaging thing that can be achieved in the Swedish economy. I can imagine far more harmful things, such as what is the result after eight years of bourgeois government. There are increased gaps, and this is something that the IMF points out, for example, is extremely damaging to the economic development of a country. School results are falling faster than in any other OECD country. It is clearly detrimental to economic development. It is a significantly higher long-term unemployment, unemployment and youth unemployment. I think that is very damaging to economic development. I think that the fact that young people go into unemployment month in and month out without any support is extremely damaging to the economy. Me and Fredrik Schulte have completely different views on what harms the economy. Is it that someone who earns over 50 000 receives 30 SEK a month in higher taxes or that children and young people do not get the support they need in school, that young people go long-term unemployed and that we do not invest in infrastructure – what is the result of politics when Fredrik Schultes's party was in the government? Fredrik Schulte believes that people will stop working when the marginal effects increase a little. Fredrik Schulte has a 100% marginal effect when he works an extra hour, for example the hour he is working right now. Then I wonder: If Fredrik Schulte works even though he has 100 percent marginal effect, does he think that other people act completely differently from himself? Please tell us the difference between you and other Swedish citizens!
i-1355c2314d348b14-249	Madam President, I would like I must congratulate the Minister for Finance on the new joke she is making, that is to say, if it is the case that marginal taxes are so harmful, why am I writing so many interpellations? I write many interpellations because I am convinced that this government is pursuing a policy that is very harmful to Sweden, and I see it as my task to get Magdalena Andersson to answer for the policy she holds. I would like to read something that Magdalena Andersson has just read out here in the speaker's chair about the effects of the step-up of the job taxation system: ..................................................... So we have a situation where research is very clear: if you increase marginal taxes, it will hit the number of hours worked. That is what research says in general. Then there are the leading researchers in Sweden today who have looked specifically at this tax increase that Magdalena Andersson is making, and they say that this is harmful to the Swedish economy and in the long term may give the state less money than they have today. On top of this, we have a situation in which Magdalena Andersson's predecessors, such as former Minister of Finance Thage G Peterson from the Social Democrats, made arrangements with parts of the Alliance to change the tax system in order to remove the high marginal taxes. Now Sweden is back with the world's highest marginal effects. This means that if a doctor is going to work an extra hour and earns SEK 100 by working that hour, he or she only gets to keep SEK 20. Then why should the doctor work overtime and relieve the Swedish healthcare system? There are no incentives, no incentives to do so. Gradually, such a policy will harm the Swedish economy. It will not happen on bounce, but it will gradually have a behavior-changing effect. Then the Minister of Finance – and I say it once again – says that long-term behavioural effects are less relevant. We therefore have a finance minister who ignores whether her policy in the longer term is bad for Sweden. She is only interested in raising taxes to be able to stand here in the speaker's chair and have some sort of class struggle rhetoric from the 70s and 80s and then take this money to raise the contributions and ignore the long-term consequences for Sweden. It is not a responsible policy. It is a very ideologically driven policy, a policy that will be bad for our future. Magdalena Andersson tries to hide behind the government making some investments in health care, school and care. I have repeatedly in many debates gone up here and said that it is good that we invest in health care, school and care. On this we agree, although it is a bit sad that the government chooses to invest in an inefficient way and not to invest in more math education in school, in a ten-year primary school or in our top teachers. What we do not agree on is the 75% of Magdalena Andersson's major investments that go to something else – mainly to increased contributions for people who do not work, subsidies and labour market policies that do more harm than good. The answer from Magdalena Andersson is that the long-term effects are less relevant. We have a finance minister who doesn't care about the future of our country. It's serious.
i-1355c2314d348b14-261	Madam President, I would like Grants, says Fredrik Schulte. In grants, he includes, for example, our 90-day guarantee for young people who he believes do more harm than good. Fredrik Schulte thinks it will do more good if young people go long-term unemployed month in and month out instead of having something to do. Our 90-day guarantee he thinks is a contribution that does more harm than good. Here we have a profound ideological difference between the Moderates and the Social Democrats. We Social Democrats think it is important that young people receive support, partly in school so that they can work through school and partly in support so that they can come back and get through their upper secondary school degree if they have for some reason dropped out of school. We also think it is important that if you have taken your upper secondary school degree but still become unemployed, you get support so that you have the opportunity to get to work. Fredrik Schulte calls this a contribution. I call it to invest in Sweden's young people so that they will have a good future but also to have a good everyday life here and now. I think it is important, and I think it is right. The question that Fredrik Schulte put to me is whether a downscaling of the job tax deduction will bring in the tax revenue that the budget bill states. The answer to this question, if one believes that there are long-term behavioural effects, is that the long-term behavioural effects that some researchers point to are not relevant for the next financial years. That is the answer to the question put by Fredrik Schulte, I would like to make a friendly point. However, Fredrik Schulte does not really answer my question. Fredrik Schulte says that he thinks it is important to review my policy, and therefore he stands here even though he might as well be out playing golf, according to his own view of how people act. But what about all the other people who have unregulated working hours, which is an absolute majority of those who have a salary over $5,000 a month? Will they be out playing golf, or will they, just like Fredrik Schulte, continue to work even though they will have exactly the same marginal effect as they had before, namely 100 percent, for an extra hour's work?
i-1355c2314d348b14-266	Madam President, I would like Magdalena Andersson, I will answer your last question very clearly. We turn over the steak and do this: If Magdalena Andersson gives me 500 SEK for each interpellation I write, she will see an increase in the number of interpellations. I am keen to manage the mission I have been given by the Swedish people, by my constituents, to examine her and to make sure that she is accountable for her policy. If I would also get an extra carrot for each interpellation, I would have written even more interpellations. To say, contrary to all research and common sense, that economic drivers do not matter is just ridiculous. Of course, it matters how much people get to do a job. Not everyone loves their jobs. I happen to love what I'm doing, to fight for the ideas I believe in to make Sweden better, but not everyone loves their jobs and does not think that the most fun thing there is to go to work. If we are to encourage people to work more hours and there should not be just a few fine words from the speaker's chair, we must pursue a policy that leads to that. All leading researchers say that what Magdalena Andersson is doing now is madness. On top of this, Magdalena Andersson herself says that she ignores the long-term effects. So we have a finance minister who doesn't care what happens to Sweden in ten years' time. As long as she is allowed to raise taxes and contributions here today in order to win short-term political points, the Minister of Finance is satisfied. I think we should have politicians who care about what is best for Sweden's future. Of course, we are all here, regardless of party, committed to reducing youth unemployment. However, the policy you put forward has been tested before, and it has not worked.
i-1355c2314d348b14-271	Madam President, I would like It would be nice if Fredrik Schulte did not lie in the speaker's chair. It is extremely clear in the answer that it is the effects for the next few years the Riksdag will consider, and for these effects any long-term behavioural effects are less relevant. That's what I'm saying, nothing else. Don't go with untruth in the speaker's chair, Fredrik Schulte! It's not the first time. I hope it doesn't happen again. It goes without saying that economic drivers play a role in how much people work. But there are other things than economic drivers that also matter. Fredrik Schulte is an excellent example of this. It is not economic drivers that make Fredrik Schulte stand here in the speaker's chair, because he has 100 per cent of the marginal effect. But for other people, too, there are other things that matter – for example, if there is childcare that works, if there is good fritis, if there is working care for the elderly, if you have health care and if you have been able to get the education needed to get a job at all. This is why effective tax collection, which provides good welfare and effective education systems, also plays a role. It also affects the number of hours worked in the economy and the level of employment. Therefore, when we look around the world, we see that it is not the countries with the lowest tax rates that have the highest number of hours worked or the highest proportion of the population in the labour market. On the contrary, it is countries with slightly higher tax rates that also have a high number of hours worked and many people on the labour market. This is because good taxation and well-used money together provide good conditions for people to work and contribute, for example through a well-functioning welfare and well-functioning education systems.
i-1355c2314d348b14-276	Madam President, I would like Fredrik Schulte has asked me why the revenue from employers' contributions is decreasing in relation to previous forecasts, while growth and employment are predicted to increase. In addition, Fredrik Schulte has asked me whether the income from the increased employers' contributions for young people is correctly accounted for. The amount of employer's contributions paid depends on how much salary is paid. Wages paid in turn depend on employment, average working hours and hourly wages. Between the spring bill and the budget bill, employment has indeed been revised up. The average working time has also been revised up. On the other hand, the average hourly wage has been revised downwards. Overall, the revised employment, average working time and hourly earnings have meant that wages paid have been revised down slightly in the period 2015–2019, which in turn led to the lower revision of employers' contributions. It may be worth noting that the revision represents 0.1% of total employers' contributions. As regards Fredrik Schultes's second question, I would like to point out that there has been no change in the way the budgetary impact is calculated and reported since the last parliamentary term. The budgetary effects presented in the budget are similar to those of previous governments. On the other hand, projections of macroeconomic developments and public financial savings make an overall assessment of the impact of government policies such as employment and GDP. Past experience shows that care should be taken to include dynamic effects in the budgetary context.
i-1355c2314d348b14-282	Madam President, I would like What Social Democrats rarely want to know is that when you raise taxes, it has effects. It affects the way people behave. It affects the way the economy works. Someone's gonna pay for the tax increases. The effect of tax increases usually is that people work less and companies hire fewer. This makes it feel good when you first raise a treasure. You can get a lot of money that you can spend on a lot of different initiatives – in the case of the Social Democrats to increase subsidies and subsidies and on inefficient labour market policies. The problem is that in the longer term it has negative effects. That is exactly what we discussed in the previous debate. Here and now, increased taxes may not have a structural impact on the economy, but in the longer term it will strike. Now something quite interesting has happened in the Swedish economy and in one of the predictions the government has made. It is because the government, like everyone else, predicts that we are heading into – or are in – a little better times and will see a little higher growth than we have seen before. We will see a little higher employment and a little more people working, although all independent assessors agree that government policies will mitigate that impact slightly and that approximately 20 000 fewer will get jobs than otherwise would have been the case. What is interesting is that despite this generally positive development for the Swedish economy, the government is revising the revenue on employers' contributions. Research is clear: There is, so to speak, a friction loss in increased taxes. If you raise taxes it affects consumption and people's behaviour quite quickly so that you get less money than you expected. Then it is quite close to believing that the government may have done a joy calculation for the increased employers' contributions for young people. Given what we discussed earlier – and that we heard quite clearly from the Minister of Finance that she is not concerned about the long-term effects, but only about getting the plus and minus here today – it would be interesting to hear how the Minister of Finance comments on this. Why is it that employment and growth are increasing but that government revenue from employers' contributions is still falling? As has been said, the Minister of Finance and the Government have received a lot of criticism from all independent assessors for their policies, and it may well be that this is an indicator that the government has expected more of the tax increases that it has done than it will actually get in and that it will undermine the state's finances in the long term. If you make tax increases and it gives less revenue than you hoped and then you spend the money – you sell the trap before the bear is convicted – it will eventually lead to deficit.
i-1355c2314d348b14-289	Madam President, I would like This interpellation is written before the moderate budget motion came. Fredrik Schulte may not know the content of it when he wrote the interpellation. When you presented the moderate b udgetmotion, it turned out that the Moderates are now behind the absolutely largest part of this tax increase, which is interesting, given how the question is posed. I can ask: How have the Moderates counted on this? Are you counting on dynamic effects in your budget exercise, or are you counting on static effects? I have answered the question, so I do not understand why Fredrik Schulte is asking it again. The revision that has taken place between the spring bill and the budget bill is that employment and average working time have been revised up. On the other hand, the average hourly wage has been revised downwards. That is what explains the change that Fredrik Schulte has asked about.
i-1355c2314d348b14-292	Madam President, I would like If the Minister for Finance has really listened to what I have said, she knows that I have never explicitly criticised the Minister for Finance for raising youth unemployment contributions. I have criticised the increase in youth unemployment contributions and the use of the money to raise contributions and introduce subsidies that are harmful to the Swedish economy. Personally, I would have preferred – as I am pleased that the Moderates are now proposing – tax cuts for wage earners, for ordinary people who work and especially for young people who get their first job and for strengthening the driving forces to enter the labour market. I'm more interested in the general phenomenon. The government proposes a large number of tax increases and is criticised for having made joy calculations, that the revenue that will be obtained as a result of the tax increases will eventually dissipate because they change people's behaviour. Fewer people will be employed. People will consume less and work less hours. The combined effect will be negative for Sweden in the long term. We have received a few answers from the Minister of Finance today. One of the answers is that it does not matter what long-term effects it has on the Swedish economy. That's one of the answers. The second answer is that the Minister of Finance agrees that increased taxes affect behaviour and have negative and harmful effects. It's even in her own budget bill. What we have not got answers to is how the Minister of Finance intends to deal with a situation where she builds up a lot of costs by opening up benefit systems, raising unemployment funds, removing the lower limit in health insurance and so on. These are costs that lead to ever-increasing public spending. This has been the case in the past with such a policy. At the same time, it proposes tax reductions that are a little bit based on dream calculations. Then we'll end up in the situation where the Minister of Finance is selling the skin-- I said wrong in the last speech-- before the bear is convicted. It's troubling. On top of this, the Finance Minister tries to give a picture of the former government undermining public finances, despite the fact that Magdalena Andersson and the former alliance government fully agreed that the government would borrow money to stimulate the economy in tough times. This makes it somewhat hypocritical when the Minister of Finance makes such criticisms and at the same time for a policy where costs will increase, probably exponentially, while the tax revenues that she forecast most likely will not be as large as it was intended. The fact that the revenue from employers' contributions seems not to be as large as was hoped is a sign of that. I am looking for the general direction, the general defence of the policy that is now being pursued. On point after point, tax increases are proposed, contrary to what leading researchers are proposing. This will lead us to undermine the stability of Swedish public finances in the long term.
i-1355c2314d348b14-299	Madam President, I would like I would like to point out once again that it is foolish to go with untruth in general and especially in the Parliament's pulpit. I've answered the question. The reason for revising the income for the employer's contribution is not what Fredrik Schulte claims, but that the wage increases are estimated to be slightly lower than the spring bill. The government is trying to clean up after a bourgeois government – again. We do this by responsibly financing the efforts that we need to make to reverse school results, get more people to work and fix the breaks in welfare. We do this by raising taxes, and when we use that tax money, we invest in things that provide jobs here and now, such as housing and more employees in the care of the elderly and the school. This allows us to increase employment and growth overall. That is the assessment we make in the budget as well. Fredrik Schulte is critical of making static calculations. Therefore, of course, I wonder how the Moderates do in their budget exercise. Are you there making dynamic calculations of the increase in the social security contributions for young people that you are proposing?
i-1355c2314d348b14-303	Madam President, I would like Of course, we fully agree on how the budget estimates should be made, that static and not dynamic calculations should be made for the revenue and expenditure of the state. What I am looking for is that Magdalena Andersson does not care about the long-term trend, the long-term development for Sweden, as she has shown quite clearly so far during today's two debates. There is much to suggest that the policy pursued by the government will lead to a significant increase in expenditure and that the tax increases that it implements will not bring in as much as it had hoped. Researchers after researchers, the Council of Finance Policy, the Institute of Economics and so on agree on that criticism of the Minister of Finance. The Minister of Finance is just trying to tell us what's going on here and now. In addition, Madam President, she really pushes on what is truth and what is untruth when she claims that the former bourgeois government would have undermined the stability of public finances. She was one hundred percent, sorry, 99 percent, in agreement with the then government about how much borrowing the Swedish state would do to stimulate the economy. We in the Alliance felt that the economy should be stimulated by reducing taxes and encouraging more people to work while the Social Democrats wanted to use the money to increase subsidies and housing subsidies, which we know will have no significant effect. That is the criticism that the government is carrying out tax increases that will not in the long term provide the revenue that is hoped for, which in turn will eventually lead to deficits and loans for future generations.
i-1355c2314d348b14-307	Madam President, I would like Fredrik Schulte is absolutely right. We disagreed with the previous bourgeois government. We thought it was wrong to carry out major unfunded tax cuts while the economic cycle turned upwards. Another big difference is, as Fredrik Schulte says, that the former bourgeois government wanted to carry out large permanent tax cuts that are not rolled back so easily on the day a business cycle gets better. We proposed more short-term incentives in the form of an active labour market policy, which could have been rolled back when the economic cycle got a little better and thus now had a better position in public finances. Obviously, the state finances would have been much better if we had had a Social Democratic government over the last eight years. Fredrik Schulte claims that I don't care about long-termism. I guess it's the other way around. I care about long-termism. That's why we need tax revenue. We need them to reverse school developments in order for our children to receive the support they need at school. It is because I care about the long term that I think it is important that we invest in our young people so that they do not go long-term unemployed, month in and month out. We need revenue to be able to implement a 90-day guarantee, training contracts. It is important for young people to be able to get the education they so badly need. But we also need to ensure that we secure a secure welfare so that people can work. It is safe welfare states that have a high number of hours worked and a high level of employment. Then it is astounding – if Fredrik Schulte believes that employers' contributions do not give the income that a static calculation shows – that the Moderates use estimates that they do not believe in in in their budget exercise. This is an amazing news from Fredrik Schulte today.
i-1355c2314d348b14-311	Madam President, I would like Helena Bouveng has asked me under what conditions companies offering domestic services will operate over the next three years. She has also asked me if the Ministry of Finance has looked at how many people are using the RUT deduction to clean their indoor pool. I would like to start by saying that I do not share Helena Bouveng's view that the RUT deduction is one of the greatest ideological issues of our time. Since the government took office in October last year, we have implemented changes to the invoice model for RUT and ROT deductions and abolished homework-RUT. The Government has proposed in the budget bill that the RUT deduction should be changed to target more to the needs of an average household. This will not make any difference for the vast majority of those who currently deduct RUTs, and therefore it should not do so for the vast majority of companies in the industry. Helena Bouveng himself shows with her examples that this is a very small change. The fact that a proposal is deemed to affect a few people does not mean that the proposal does not matter. The changes to the RUT deduction proposed by the Government in the budget proposal for 2016 are primarily justified in terms of distribution policy. It is important for the legitimacy of the tax system that fiscal policy is perceived as fair.
i-1355c2314d348b14-315	Madam President, I would like The fact that Magdalena Andersson and the Social Democrats do not like tax incentives for domestic services is not a direct state secret. It is about black jobs turning white, people getting a first job, especially for those who are far removed from the labour market. It is about the fact that the reform already paid off at 10 000 new jobs, and now we are actually in the double. The fact that women have gained opportunities for entrepreneurship and access to capital works for Magdalena Andersson and her red-green gang fairly irrelevant. In the debate, she constantly focuses on those who use the services, never on the foreign-born woman who has actually got her first job. That is why the RUT reform has become a major ideological issue. Me and my party see how people get their first job, how after several years of looking for work Nadja finds his way by starting his own home help company. This happens at the same time as the ordinary children's family actually makes their everyday puzzles go together. We want to develop. The Minister of Finance wants to wind up. She starts now with a half. What it has to show, I do not know, nor do I know those who actually work in the industry. The argument is that the vast majority buy services for only about $25,000. It will not affect most customers. Then the friend of order may ask himself whether the halving plays any role, except that it creates uncertainty and confusion and sends out negative signals to a new, young and female-dominated industry. Madam President, I would like I do not know how far Magdalena Andersson's understanding of how new industries are emerging, but the Minister for Finance has studied at the School of Economics. Some skills may be there anyway, although some courses are elective. I am nevertheless convinced that Magdalena Andersson knows that there is a certain immaturity during the construction period. Many are new in their entrepreneurship and also new in their employer role. The business idea is not entirely in place. What is profitable, and how can your own company develop and stay strong in the future? Therefore, it will be so extremely difficult for me to understand the change that is now being made, when it is also profitable for Magdalena Andersson. Why not give Nadja an opportunity to develop his company, train and develop his staff, environmental certification and become a professional employer who can take care of his employees? Why not support the 5 903 new small businesses that have actually just started? Not all companies may become a new Home Peace, but it's probably so important for people to get a job to go to – their first job. What is Magdalena Andersson's response to Nadja and all the other 5 903 companies that have just started? Is it an industry that Nadja can venture to invest both his time and his money in, or does Magdalena Andersson want something else?
i-1355c2314d348b14-322	Madam President, I would like I find it extremely difficult to understand the question. Of course Nadja and others will invest in the industry. The government is making a very small change. That if anything shows well that we believe in the industry and think it is an important industry. Let's leave the RUT deduction. For 99% of the population, it is almost unchanged. Yes, of course Nadja is going to bet on the business. Helena Bouveng questions my competence in understanding what it's like for start-ups. Then I have to ask how Helena Bouveng thinks when she tries to run a campaign to increase uncertainty for companies by making it sound like the government wants to abolish the RUT deduction when we actually make a change affecting 1% of those buying the services. How does Helena Bouveng think it affects Nadja and the others who are currently in the industry when you are involved in creating uncertainty?
i-1355c2314d348b14-324	Madam President, I would like I am here in the speaker's chair because I meet many of the entrepreneurs who feel a great deal of concern. I met Nadja in Vetlanda last week. She now wonders whether she dares to go on or not. It is good that Magdalena Andersson is making clear today that she is not going to make any changes. But we can see what electoral promises the Social Democratic government made in the election movement. Those promises are a little hard to trust, and so does Nadja. This is not the first time Magdalena Andersson and I have had the opportunity to discuss the RUT deduction in this House in connection with the change in the RUT reform. On 7 April, the Minister for Finance said that the government is doing the reform precisely because it is a question of having a high degree of legitimacy in the tax system and that it is clear that it is not unproblematic when you get to make large deductions for some services included. The very large deductions that are being applied to me are services that the government chooses to abolish, namely deductions for the cleaning of indoor pools and cooking. In Aktuellt on 23 October 2014, Magdalena Andersson explained the proposed reduction of the RUT deduction by saying that it should not be possible to have a full-time maid or, for that matter, hire the chefs' team. With a little simple mathematics you can figure out that it had enough to five hours of cleaning 52 weeks a year at 400 kroner an hour. I hope that the Minister of Finance does not think it is a full-time job. The fact that some troublesome majority of the population hires the national chefs' team to help with everyday food may also be added to the list of reasonable reasons behind the deduction that the Minister of Finance is concerned about. Madam President, I would like Remains the deduction for cleaning indoor pools. Is it therefore the view of the Minister for Finance that the legitimacy of the whole reform is strengthened by abolishing the possibility of deducting indoor pools? At home in Vetlanda I know of a few indoor pools, one of which is covered. Are there indoor pools that the Minister of Finance is putting his officials to hunt? I am not in favour of hunting supervision, but where is the legitimacy of using expensive officials at the Ministry of Finance to value changes that affect a disappearing small part of taxpayers? Does this important industry not deserve that the Ministry of Finance's focus is on more important issues than hunting for the number of indoor pools?
i-1355c2314d348b14-329	Madam President, I would like When the Alliance carried out the RUT deduction, there were hot feelings in the Riksdag. The Social Democrats, the Left Party and the Green Party were firmly opposed. They talked about that there should be no so-called maid jobs, McDonald's jobs or simple jobs. That's what it sounded like on the part of the sossians. Now it has been realised that the RUT reform has been successful. It's a popular reform. It has led to many people born abroad entering the labour market. As a result, many women have become entrepreneurs. The Social Democrats have toned down the criticism and bought large parts of the RUT deduction, but they are still holding up the ideological struggle and want to somehow blacken down and nudge the reform at the edge by saying that people should not clean indoor pools. It is clearly justified by Helena Bouvengs to ask how many people actually clean indoor pools. Why is the Minister of Finance making such a big point of this in the debate? The question so clearly illustrates the great ideological difference between the Social Democrats and the Alliance. You don't think all the jobs are good enough. Some jobs aren't good enough, and you're doing everything you can to fight them. It is not just a question of nagging the RUT deduction at the edge and greatly reducing the ROT deduction. The Social Democrats are also pursuing a policy which, when jobs are pushed away, pushes people into the benefit system and dependency on benefits through a substantial increase in benefits. There's no better way to crowd out simple jobs than to raise the unemployment fund. This is the policy that the government systematically pursues. It is a policy that means that the simple jobs disappear from the Swedish labour market. Then you should say that Sweden is already the country in the West that has the lowest number of simple jobs. This means that all the people who come from other countries, as refugees, make it considerably tougher to enter the Swedish labour market. There are more billionaires in the world who started out as shoe polishers than I have fingers on my hands. It's a way in. Simple jobs are a way into the labour market and then build a better future. But this is what the Social Democrats fight at all costs, because they think that some jobs are not good enough. It is an attitude that will cost Sweden dearly, for it will lead to more people getting stuck in exclusion. But above all, it will cost many individuals dearly – people who will never get the chance to get a first job and prove themselves, fight and through hard work eventually reach the goals of their dreams. This is a cynical policy and a policy that is very ideologically charged. It is therefore very good that Helena Bouveng has raised this issue. We definitely need clearer answers from Magdalena Andersson.
i-1355c2314d348b14-337	Madam President, I would like I feel obliged to register for this debate when making statements that are not true. It's been a very long time since Social Democrats– I don't know if it was about the Social Democrats as a party, but it was individual Social Democrats– called the RUT jobs as maid jobs. It has been a long time since I heard it even in the most radical circles of the Social Democrats. On the other hand, we thought it was the wrong priority to spend so much tax money at the same time cutting down and changing the unemployment fund for those who were out of work. At the same time, the distant parentheses were introduced, making poor people even poorer. We thought that was wrong, and there is an ideological difference. It is quite right that there is a great ideological difference in this. We feel that we should guard people who are in a difficult and difficult situation and who are sick or unemployed. There we are, indeed, at odds. But if there are so few indoor pools that are cleaned, why is this such an important, burning issue for the Moderate Assembly Party? That is the interesting thing in this debate. What is also important in this debate is precisely this: if it affects as few as 1%, as is the case at least according to the calculations that the Ministry of Finance has made– I have seen another figure of around 2%, but it is very little, at least – why is this one of the most important things there is? For every change in the taxes and tax system carried out, the Moderates shout so that one might think that they were about to throw them into a bowl. This part of the debate is becoming almost ridiculous. It's not even credible once. The second debate that we have heard here before was at least some kind of intelligence behind it – it had been thought about and thought a little bit – although we have already heard it a number of times. But this debate is getting a gleam of ridicule. During the week we had, I met some RUT companies. They were not particularly concerned about their future. They expected that a single customer's order might decrease, but they did not expect to have to resign any. Okay, it was in the Stockholm area, where the number of citizens might rise. But the interesting thing is that there is constant talk about this with the indoor pools. It seems to be suggested that there are actually not many indoor pools that have actually been cleaned with RUT deductions. Why, then, do we want to spend so much time on this kind of debate? It's proven that not many people are affected. It is not expected that very many companies will be closed down. How many companies will be closed down, and how many people will lose work t? It is a question that is relevant to ask even the Moderates.
i-1355c2314d348b14-346	Madam President, I would like Like Mr Vestlund, I could not sit in silence in the Chamber and listen to what was said. What this is about is not how many indoor pools have been cleaned. What is at issue here is the rhetoric used by the Social Democrats: one should halve the RUT deduction, because it should not be used to clean indoor pools. That is why the question is asked how many indoor pools have been cleaned using RUT. I have not heard an answer to that question. I would like an answer. Where did the Minister of Finance get that there would be overconsumption of indoor swimming pools by means of the RUT deduction? And if there are not so many people who use RUT deductions over 25 000, how is it that a change is made at all? That's a good question, too, I think.
i-1355c2314d348b14-349	Madam President, I would like The Moderate fight for indoor swimming pools is fascinating. It is good that there is a party in the Swedish parliament that stands up for those who own indoor pools to have the right to clean them with half the salary paid by the state. It's nice to recognize the old Moderates. Here they come back – the pearl necklaces, the buns and the indoor pool cleaner's master! Of course, they are not the ones who are supposed to do the cleaning, but someone else. I've answered the question. This government does not intend to make any major changes to the RUT deduction. We are keeping it almost unchanged. However, the reason we are making some changes is that it is important for the legitimacy of the tax system and for fiscal policy to be perceived as fairer. That is why we are making this change in order to be able to target this more towards those families with children and the elderly who need a RUT deduction. The previous RUT deduction ceiling was very high. If you as a family had two people who could make full deductions and had an employee at home who you paid employer's contributions and salary for yourself, you could with the RUT deduction valid until 1 January be able to deduct almost – it depends little on what salary you pay – the cost of 75 per cent employment. Hence that illustration. It is not based on hiring a company and paying VAT. The purpose of the government's changes in the RUT deduction is precisely to increase the legitimacy of the system. If Helena Bouveng and other Moderates care about the companies in the RUT industry, you should now be out hitting the drum and telling everyone that there are very small changes being made. Continue to invest and develop these companies, and ensure that all Swedes continue to buy RUT services, instead of spreading scare propaganda, as the Moderates now do. This forces some companies, such as Hemfrid, to go out and tell their customers that there is no major change. Be part of that campaign! Be part of Hemfrid's campaign to tell you that there is no big change happening! The vast majority are not affected at all. That's where Helena Bouveng should be if she cares about this business.
i-1355c2314d348b14-354	Madam President, I would like Börje Vestlund accuses us of making the wrong priority. The fact that 20 000 more people have a job to go to simply underscores that the Moderates are the new Labour Party and the Social Democrats the new Labour Party. I'll stand up for the jobs, Minister of Finance. So will my party. The fact that she calls a halving a minor change is also a little exciting. After being in contact with the Swedish Tax Agency, she says that these changes will make no difference whatsoever. Who decides what is simple and not simple? Personally, I think window cleaning is an entire science, but it is still considered to be of a simpler nature. What I can say is that it is still okay for the Minister of Finance to use the ROT deduction to build indoor pools – indoor pools also receive the same subsidy as before – but not to make them clean. The same rhetoric applied to the Social Democrats when the Alliance introduced the reform with RUT. It is okay to repair windows but not to polish them, although Magdalena Andersson makes it a bit more expensive after the turn of the year. It must be in the spinal cord of the Social Democrats. Traditional male craftsmanship is okay. But as soon as it comes to women, and things that women have historically done completely without payment but now have the opportunity to get paid for, it is quite abrupt. Does the Minister of Finance consider male crafts to be more important than women? Is it the case that the Minister of Finance believes that traditionally male jobs have a higher status than women's jobs? Is it the case that the Minister of Finance's one-sided focus on those who use the reform is more important than that 20 000 more people have a job to go to, and to this not least women?
i-1355c2314d348b14-358	Madam President, I would like It's ridiculous when the Minister of Finance is standing here trying to make some point of us Moderates caring about pool jobs. Nobody cares about pool jobs. What we care about and the whole debate is about is that there must be simple jobs on the Swedish labour market. We now have 2 000 asylum seekers who come to Sweden every day. Many of them have not had the same opportunities as me and the Minister for Finance to attend Swedish school. In order to get a chance in Sweden to create a dignified life without living on grants, they need to have the opportunity to get easy jobs in order to get into the Swedish labour market. I used to have a neighbor who escaped from the war in Czechoslovakia in the 1970s. When he came to Sweden with a doctoral thesis in physics in his back, he started as an alliallo at Linköping University, and 20 years later he was a professor there. The simple jobs are a first step in. You'll do anything to fight them. You were against the RUT reform when we introduced it. That's when you called it a maid's job. Well, Börje Vestlund, it did a former Social Democratic Minister of Finance, Bosse Ringholm. He was in the speaker's room talking about maid work. No one defends the cleaning of pools. What we are talking about is that there must be simple jobs. We have the least number of simple jobs in the whole Western world. You are now trying in all the different ways to displace those jobs through benefit increases, by nagging the RUT deduction at the edge, by making large alexander chops in the ROT deduction and by increasing the tax on labour in different ways. That's what we're attacking. The fact that the Minister of Finance does not want to take this issue seriously is astounding and cynical. Those who will suffer are all the people who are the furthest from the labour market and have the most difficulty getting into the labour market. It's them that you put in permanent alienation. It's no wonder you're questioning where you're saying. You've broken so many electoral promises now, Minister of Finance, that there's no credibility in what you're saying.
i-1355c2314d348b14-364	Madam President, I would like Fredrik Schulte came up with the question of the ROT deductions. I have been involved in several debates where it has been said that the change in ROT deductions will mean such major disasters that it will not be possible to be a craftsman in rural areas at all. What an exaggeration! It is clear that the opposition wants to ensure that the government comes in as bad a light as possible. It's a very nagging about the simple jobs. But how many simple jobs will disappear if the RUT deductions disappear for 1 – 2 percent? It is also on Hemfrid's website. It is clear who is not. How many employees are allowed to leave? How many employees don't get the chance? I would like to ask you this about the simple jobs. It's gonna be ridiculous. You can't prove anything of this. It's gonna be a nonsense discussion. According to Helena Bouveng, 20 000 people are employed in the RUT sector. How many people are gonna lose their job? Maybe a few, at worst. Maybe someone. Since staff turnover is also high in cleaning companies in general but also in RUT companies, it is interesting that there may not be any at all that can go because of halving RUT. This is just a nonsense discussion and nothing else that means nothing to the vast majority of people. But one thing has been done. A number of entrepreneurs have been intimidated by something that is not going to happen.
i-1355c2314d348b14-368	Madam President, I would like Actually, it's not the Moderates that are fixated on indoor pools. Nor are the Moderates obsessed with taxes. Every time I have stood in the speaker's chair, it is the Social Democrats who have raised those issues. We have not even had a thought that it was possible to clean indoor pools with the help of the RUT deduction. It is Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson who put forward the argument when you would halve the RUT deduction that it should not be used for cleaning indoor pools. Of course, we wonder: How many indoor pools have been cleaned? That's not the answer we've been given. Basically, it is a question of a class struggle rhetoric. You're trying to get the Swedish people on your bad politics, even though it's not true. There hasn't been a single indoor pool cleaned, as I've heard. I even visited them with the RUT deductions. I haven't heard anyone say they've been involved in cleaning an indoor pool. It is the rhetoric of class struggle because you think you are bringing your Swedish people with you, but you have not succeeded in doing so. I do not think there is a government in the memory of manna that has had less confidence than this. It only shows what bad policy is being pursued. What we Moderates are more interested in is: How can we increase the driving forces for jobs? We have proposed several reforms that could increase the driving forces for jobs. This applies not least to the high tax wedges that we have in this country. It should pay more to work than to go on grants. It is extremely important if we are to have a well-being in this country.
i-1355c2314d348b14-371	Madam President, I would like I think we should give a political scientist the task of asking whether it was Moderates or Social Democrats who first began to raise the very issue of cleaning indoor pools or whether it might be someone else. I know in any case that I have got an interpellation about precisely cleaning indoor pools, so I guess the moderate interest in cleaning indoor pools is quite great. Helena Bouveng talks about male and female jobs. I would just like to point out that I do not think that women and men's jobs are valued on the basis of what tax subsidy they have on jobs. If you do so, as Helena Bouveng may do, I would like to point out that we still have the RUT subsidy at a higher level than we have at the ROT subsidy. That's where her argument goes if she thinks that's how to value different jobs. For example, I value a doctor's job very high, even though you do not have a tax subsidy if you use medical services. It is often publicly funded in itself. But I also value lawyers very much even if you do not get a tax subsidy when you hire lawyers and also hairdressers. Fredrik Schulte says that the increased unemployment fund displaces simple jobs and that the government does everything to combat simple jobs. To lower the ceiling in RUT, which affects 1% of buyers, I do not think that we should do everything we can to combat simple jobs. As regards the increase in unemployment, I would like to point out that the Moderates are also proposing an increase in unemployment in their budget exercise. They do not propose as much as the Social Democrats, but still. According to Fredrik Schultes's rhetoric, the Moderates are also fighting against simple jobs. I do not share that view. I think a good unemployment fund is good for the functioning of the labour market. There's a lot of Moderates talking about promises here. It'll be a little embarrassing a week after the Moderates broke the December deal.
i-1355c2314d348b14-376	Madam President, I would like Erik Andersson has asked me how I see the election promises and whether I have made the position that the election promise on the petrol tax and/ or other election promises are negotiable or whether they should be regarded as just promises. The Social Democrats went to elections in 2014 with a clear policy. But after eight years of the last government's large unfunded tax cuts, the reality was tight. There was a deficit in central government finances, an unemployment rate that has stuck to high levels and record low performance in schools. We won the election because we promised to change this. But we were also clear that Sweden needs a stable and capable government. We were clear that we were prepared to work with others to achieve this. Cooperation means giving and taking. The government has now begun a comprehensive reform work to meet the societal challenges facing Sweden. We are now seeing major changes in the world around us, and politics must be adapted to reality. To the challenges of unemployment, school and the climate, we must also add the challenge of the many people on the run. The Government takes Sweden's challenges seriously, and we will take a strong stance during the term of office to reverse developments. Hard work lies ahead of us. A responsible and sustainable economic policy is the basis. Public finance management is a prerequisite for more jobs and sustainable financing of welfare. So we build a Sweden to be proud of.
i-1355c2314d348b14-380	Madam President, I would like Now I'm going to complain a little more about government policy. That is our task, although the Minister of Finance may not like it. About August 16, 2014, the Minister of Finance stated that it is very expensive to refuel petrol. It is very expensive as it is, and we see no need to increase the tax on petrol, she said. I believe that this was precisely one of the issues that led many voters in Sweden to consider putting their vote on the Social Democrats, not least people who live in our countryside and who have no alternatives. There is basically no subway outside Stockholm city's borders. There are buses that go once or possibly twice a day, but for many it is vital to have a car to go to the store, kindergarten or work. This statement was made three weeks before the elections. It is almost believed that the Minister for Finance no longer thinks it is expensive to refuel petrol. She has previously said that the price of petrol is so low that tax could be increased. When you have asked whether the tax will be reduced if the oil market price and thus the petrol price goes up, you have not been promised it. It is not just petrol and diesel that are getting more expensive. It is also the tax on biofuels that will be more expensive. As voters, one might wonder: What did the government think? What was the Social Democrats thinking? Now we will get about 150 billion in higher taxes. I believe that the Swedish people understand fundamentally that compromise is necessary. But on this issue it was so clear that the Social Democrats would not increase the tax on petrol, and it affects so many people. I think it's important to keep your electoral promises. That must of course be the biggest objective that you have as a elected representative, because the post you are in is really a trust, a mandate, which you have received from the Swedish people. I have noted in various debates with the Minister for Finance that she often blames the previous government and that she says she has taken over a country that was in economic morass. But the truth is that it is not possible to deceive the Swedish parliament, and it is not possible to deceive the Swedish people. Central government debt was around 40 per cent of GDP in 2006, and now it is 35 per cent of GDP. Thus, the Minister of Finance did not take over a country in bankruptcy. What we are concerned about now is how the effect of all the increased taxes including petrol taxes will affect the country's economic stability in the future. It will not be easier to get to work, but it will be easier to get a grant. This is what we complain about. In retrospect, we can see that most people think I am right about what I say, given that the Social Democrats now have the lowest poll figures in manna memory.
i-1355c2314d348b14-388	Madam President, I would like Erik Andersson suggested that I would not like you complaining about politics. On the contrary, Erik Andersson! I find it incredibly fun to get all these interpellations from all the moderate MPs who spend so many hours on this even though they have 100% marginal effect every hour they stand here and just as well, economically speaking, could be out playing golf. I appreciate your commitment, and I find it fun to be here to debate with you. However, it is clear that this interpellation, which is about promises, was written before the Moderates chose to break the December Agreement. I suppose it's rather embarrassing for a moderate to stand and debate this, so I offer Erik Andersson the opportunity that we end the interpellation debate here and now.
i-1355c2314d348b14-390	Madam President, I would like I did not understand exactly what the Minister of Finance meant. I almost felt it was a little rude to say what she did. Now we are discussing the government's policies with increased taxes on petrol, and you are withdrawing the December agreement that the National Council of Christian Democrats chose to terminate. It is no wonder that four alliance parties are acting together. There's nothing more about it. If you refuel a litre of petrol, 60 percent of what you pay is tax. So it is energy tax, CO2 tax and VAT. Sixty percent. The Minister for Finance thinks that is far too little, so now we are going to pay even more tax on petrol, diesel and biofuels. As an onion on the salmon, you have also decided on an additional list and indexation of this tax. This also applies to biofuels. My concern is that the whole countryside must live. All of Sweden will live. It will not pay to get to work if you do not live where there is public transport. It is almost obvious that Magdalena Andersson wants people to sit at home and not go to work but instead go on grants.
i-1355c2314d348b14-394	Madam President, I would like Erik Andersson said that the intersection is about the petrol tax, but it is mainly about promises. Therefore, I offered Erik Andersson to avoid the embarrassment of talking about promises the week after the Moderates chose to break the December agreement. It was something quite unique that happened in Swedish politics when the Moderates chose a week and a half ago to break the December agreement. There was a handshake between six parties in the Riksdag for an agreement that would be valid for eight years. After just ten months, the Moderates had changed their mind and chose to break this promise. Furthermore, after that, the Moderates have not been able to give information on how they intend to act in the budget vote. The budget has been drawn up on the basis of the agreement and the handshake that applied when we worked it out. Speak of a breach of promise! That is why I thought it might be better for Erik Andersson not to be plagued by this in the Parliament's pulpit.
i-1355c2314d348b14-398	Madam President, I would like I believe that the Minister of Finance is sitting on very high horses when she speaks of a breach of promise. Three weeks before the election, the Minister of Finance told us not to increase the tax on petrol and that it was already very expensive to refuel. The December agreement was a promise between different parties. What the Minister of Finance has done is to betray his promise to the Swedish people by repeatedly pursuing such a bad policy that the December agreement broke on KD's government. That's what I call a vow break. If the Minister for Finance and the government had not pursued such a bad policy, the December agreement might have remained. But I think the Swedish people have had enough, and the opinion polls show that confidence in the government is bottom and really bad.
i-1355c2314d348b14-402	Madam President, I would like When we are talking about horses, I think Erik Andersson just fell off the high horse he sat on. In the election movement, the Moderates promised a tax bench stop. But what happens when Erik Andersson and the other Moderates present a budget motion in the Riksdag? Well, then the biggest thing in that budget bill is a sixth job tax deduction. It is precisely the policy that the Moderates promised dearly and sacredly in the electoral movement that they would not conduct during this term of office. When Erik Andersson says that the December agreement was broken because of what happened at KD's government, I am horrified. Is it the case that the Moderates, who claim to be a state-bearing party, allow themselves to be ruled by champagne-squeaking KDU youth? Is it the case that the person claiming to be a prime minister candidate is allowed to be ruled by the young people of the KDU? It's terrible.
i-1355c2314d348b14-404	Madam President, I would like Erik Andersson has asked me what effect I think the previous government's reduction in social security contributions for young people has had and why the municipalities will be compensated when the reduction is now abolished. After the previous government's term of office, we see large deficits in state finances and high unemployment, especially among young people. Sweden currently has a higher youth unemployment rate than many comparable countries. The reduced social security contributions for young people, introduced by the bourgeois government in order to reduce youth unemployment, have simply not had the intended effect. In order to implement urgent efforts to increase employment, the reduction is abolished. The results of IFAU's evaluation of the reduced social security contributions for young people indicate that the reduction is an inefficient measure that has had no employment effect at all for groups of young people with weak links to the labour market. The Financial Policy Council, the Swedish National Audit Office, the Swedish Financial Control Agency and the Swedish Public Employment Service agree with the assessment that the reduced social security contributions for young people are an inefficient measure to create employment. I also note that three of the four parties that introduced the youth disability have chosen to propose less extensive reductions in their recent budget movements. In order to maintain a high quality of common welfare throughout the country, the government has chosen to increase the level of the general state contribution to the municipalities.
i-1355c2314d348b14-411	Madam President, I would like As usual, the Minister of Finance blames the former government. But it is in fact the Minister for Finance and the Government who is responsible for ruling the country. The Minister of Finance cannot fool the Swedish people or the Riksdag. As I mentioned earlier, the public debt was 40% of GDP in 2006. In 2014, it was 35 per cent. The proposed increase will, of course, reduce companies' willingness to employ people with less experience. In particular, it hits entry jobs in the services sector for young people without education and those born abroad. In the reply, the Minister of Finance refers to a report. It says that the reduction has not produced much effect, but that it has provided approximately 6 000 – 10 000 jobs. When the reform was introduced, the Swedish National Audit Office believed that it would provide 10 000 – 12 000 jobs. In the report, the authors of the report discuss why the reduction has not had any effect. They say that the supply of work may be limited and that many younger people take part in education or are travelling. There may be those who formally apply for a job but who have such good unemployment benefits and can stay at home with their parents that they choose to do so. This may also be due to the fact that the capacity limit for enterprises makes the wage cost for young people too high in relation to productivity and that the reduction is too small to compensate for the risk of employing unskilled workers. The report shows that these may be the reasons why the expected effect has not been achieved. After all, however, it has provided 6,000 to 10,000 jobs. How is it that the municipalities are compensated for this? What is emphasised is that they should be able to continue to enjoy good welfare. But there are more actors than the municipalities in welfare today. We have free welfare companies that are either procured or given money. However, they do not receive any compensation. One might wonder what about equality and competition neutrality. There are many questions left that I think the Minister for Finance should answer.
i-1355c2314d348b14-420	Madam President, I would like When you listen to Erik Andersson you can almost think that he and the Moderates want to keep the reduced employer's contribution for young people, but that is not the case at all. You remove it in your own budget exercise for 21-year-olds, 22-year-olds, 23-year-olds and 24-year-olds. Since before, you've removed it for 25-year-olds. When the reduction in the social security contribution for 25-year-olds was removed, the government was still in position to assess that change as having a zero impact on employment. I am very interested to hear what reduced employment Erik Andersson thinks you get with the proposals included in the moderate budget motion. I also wonder, of course, how the Moderates view equality between public and private employers on the times that governments add to the municipalities. One example is what the previous government did when, during the crisis years, it contributed to the municipalities. Does Erik Andersson still mean that it was a way of distorting competition between different performers?
i-1355c2314d348b14-423	Madam President, I would like The question in the interpellation was whether the Finance Minister could see any effect of the reduction in the social security contribution for young people. If she did not see it, how is it that the municipalities are compensated for it? The Moderates, unlike the Social Democrats, are a party that constantly reconsiders its policy. The Moderates want to be a party in reality and see what needs to be done to make Sweden stronger. On the contrary, we have said that we want to maintain the reduction in employers' contributions for the very youngest. It is important that, if you are young, you come directly into work. The first job is probably one of the most important things you get to experience in life. If you don't get the first job and the years go by, it can then be difficult to get a job at all. Then you can end up in permanent alienation. We want to prevent that. That's why we've instead launched the first job deduction. It is important to increase incentives to go to work from grants. Unfortunately, we have very high tax wedges here in Sweden. We believe that working should pay off. It's worth going from a grant to a job. If I say go to work, the Social Democrats say go on welfare.
i-1355c2314d348b14-427	Madam President, I would like Erik Andersson says that the Moderates are a party that reconsiders its politics. It is very funny to see a party that, after having carried out job tax deductions 1, job tax deductions 2, job tax deductions 3, job tax deductions 4, job tax deductions 5 as its major reform in its budget motion for job tax deductions 6. Then they renamed it and called it the first job deduction. But the truth of the matter is, as Minister of Finance, I'd get a lot more of the first job deduction than the one who's started his first job. If you look at the profile of what you call the first job deduction, then it's a sixth job tax deduction. In principle, it has exactly the same profile as the previous job tax deductions. It is a bit difficult to read the Moderates' budget motion, so I ask Erik Andersson : Do you give any additional contributions to the municipalities because of the increase in youth unemployment contributions that you propose in your exercise? It would be interesting to have an answer to that question, since it is difficult to read it in the exercise.
i-1355c2314d348b14-430	Madam President, I would like The more I stand in the speaker's chair, I realize that there is only one Labour Party in the Swedish Parliament, and that is the Moderates. It is no wonder that we are constantly rethinking our policies, but the ideological basis must be firm. There's nothing strange about that. Does the Minister of Finance think it has been wrong that the midwife, the nurse and the teacher, who is doing an amazing job in our schools, have got more money in their wallets? With regard to the first-job deduction, the impact is three to four times higher for those with lower incomes. Is that wrong? I think that's a priority. We have to live in a country where it pays to make money from work and not just earn money from ownership or if you win from Lotto. We need to increase incentives to make work pay. The government's policy is going in the opposite direction. With your draft budget, 37 000 jobs are at risk. It's just sad.
i-1355c2314d348b14-435	Madam President, I would like There is apparently still uncertainty as to the extent to which the Moderates provide additional support to the municipalities due to the increased employers' contributions proposed by the Moderates. I am also interested to hear what the Moderates are doing to assess how many fewer young people get jobs with the Moderates' proposals for increased employers' contributions for young people. I have heard many Moderates from the pulpit argue that our proposal would give fewer jobs to young people, and now the Moderates have exactly the same proposal as the government. This applies to 21-year-olds, 22-year-olds, 23-year-olds, 24-year-olds and 25-year-olds. I hope for further interpellation debates with Erik Andersson where he can clarify Moderate policy on these issues. Then Erik Andersson says that reducing taxes is an important incentive to work. Unfortunately, that is not at all what the Moderates said in the election campaign. Then they said that it was tax bench stop that would apply. A year later, that promise had been betrayed, and now it is back on the old-fashioned agenda. It is clear that as a social democrat it feels very safe to recognize the old Moderates. Now the offer that you recognize remains to ordinary Swedes from the pearl necklaceed Moderates. It is lower job security, lower wages and higher rents. You recognize the old Moderates.
i-1355c2314d348b14-439	Madam President, I would like Helena Bouveng has asked me about my view and that of the government on the concept of high-income earner when the department analyses the draft budgets. First of all, however, I would like to point out that Helena Bouveng's claim that the layer limit is being lowered is wrong. The cut-off is kept unchanged, which in itself does not mean that the tax is increased. On the question of who is a high wage earner, there is no clear definition. When the government conducts distributional analyses, it is done on the basis of the concept of financial standard where the entire family's income is adjusted for dependency. However, the taxation of income is not based on the household's total income but is done individually. Depending on whether the analysis is done according to the household or individual perspective, the picture of where in the income distribution a tax change strikes may vary. From an individual income perspective, the unchanged threshold in 2016 affects the approximately 20 per cent who have the highest income and the job tax deduction affects them with the highest income. Based on the latest available statistics on wages and salaries from 2014, the average full-time salary in all sectors was SEK 31 400. Half of all employees had a full-time salary less than SEK 28 000 per month and three quarters had a lower full-time salary than SEK 34 100 per month. Although wages and salaries have grown slightly since 2014, a relatively limited proportion of the employee collective has earned more than SEK 36 000 per month.
i-1355c2314d348b14-442	Madam President, I would like The Social Democrats, together with the Green Party and the Left Party, have left the deal of half of the 1990s far behind. With their budget proposals' changes in tax collection, Sweden takes back the first place in the world's highest tax league. I wish we had taken the first place in an entirely different league – a league where we are the country that has the most people who have a job to go to. Unfortunately, we can see that with the policy now being pursued by the Red-Green Government, the horticulture league is closer to the jobs. Madam President, I would like Magdalena Andersson and Stefan Löfven often talk about the high-paid man with his wallet when they defend their tax increases and that no ordinary wage earners should be taxed more heavily. I really wish we had 1.2 million high-paid workers in Sweden. But the picture that the Minister of Finance wants to paint of the high-paid man is quite misleading. Now the tax on 1.2 million workers is being increased. We are talking about police officers, midwives, nurses – to name a few groups. We're talking about six out of ten people, eight out of ten households who get less money to pay for their expenses every month. Last week I met the nurse Marie at home in Jönköping County. A few months ago, she took a job as a department manager at the hospital. It was a job that she was happy to be offered but hesitated to take. It would give more responsibility for both staff and finances and probably a lot of work to take with you in your bag to a home where the food will be put on the table, the laundry will be done and the children will get help with homework and get a ride to training. The challenge in the new job attracted, but also the actual wage increase. Before the new job Marie had about 36,000. Now she's going to have an income over it. She will thus pay government income tax, which means that half of her salary increase will disappear and future wage increases will be eaten up. Marie's not alone. With an increase in wages, 58,000 people Marier more than half of the last one earned a hundred. And in 2017, 113,000 share Marie's fate when the layer line is not raised. Before the elections, the Minister of Finance promised that no ordinary wage earners would be taxed more heavily. Does the Minister of Finance consider that 47 per cent of Sweden's police officers, 37 per cent of Sweden's midwives and Marie are high income recipients?
i-1355c2314d348b14-447	Madam President, I would like It is a bit ironic that Moderate Helena Bouveng begins by telling us that we have left a deal behind. A week and a half ago, the Moderates chose to leave the December agreement on which six parties in the Riksdag had taken their hand. It's a little bloated. Helena Bouveng says eight out of ten households lose out on government policy. That's not correct. Helena Bouveng gets to go back home and try to learn to read tables. The vast majority will receive the same salary in January 2016 as in December 2015. When we do not change the layer limit, this means that you will pay as much tax in January 2016 as in December 2015. If you paid 12 000 SEK in tax in December 2015, you will pay 12 000 SEK in tax in January 2016. My question to Helena Bouveng is: If you pay as much tax in January 2016 as in December 2015, do you have the same tax, higher tax or lower tax?
i-1355c2314d348b14-450	Madam President, I would like I note that the Minister of Finance is not counting on wage increases. Then it'll be exactly the same treasure. I believe, however, that there will be wage increases. The Minister of Finance often says that people like Marie have no problem giving up a hundred a month. Perhaps so, but if she is in the choice between on the one hand working that extra hour, developing skills and thus taking more responsibility and work with her home in the bag for a small financial reward and on the other hand getting more time for herself and her children, I'm pretty sure she's asking herself if it's really worth it. Now it is not just the state tax that affects Marie's and her family's finances. She rides a lot of cars – to work, to children's leisure activities, to buy food and with a mother who needs a ride into town from time to time. Without two cars, their family's everyday life would never go together. Besides, their old house needs repairs. It is not exactly a matter of luxury renovations – let us call it constant improvements. Madam President, I would like It may sound innocent with a hundred or so here or there. But in total there will be a lot fewer hundreds left in the household register, not only in Marie's family but in very many households. Taxpayers have calculated the amount of tax increases for people between 20 and 64 years of age through the Government's decision in the spring change budget along with proposed tax increases in the 2016 budget bill. In total it is 36.1 billion, which means 6 400 SEK per person. In Stockholm it is 8 938 SEK per person. In my county, Jönköping County, it is 6,345 SEK per year. For Marie and her family, the Minister for Finance Magdalena Andersson will reduce the family household fund by a total of SEK 50 760 in four years. It may not be that much for Magdalena Andersson, but I am quite convinced that it will be felt for Marie and her family. Prior to the election, Stefan Löfven said that no ordinary wage earners would be taxed more heavily. Now I can see that Marie's family has to pay SEK 50 760 more in four years. I still wonder who the Minister of Finance considers to be an ordinary employee. Should it pay ordinary employees to work for a few extra hours, develop skills and take greater responsibility?
i-1355c2314d348b14-456	Madam President, I would like It is nice to hear that Helena Bouveng agrees that when you pay as much tax in January as you did in December of the year before, it is the same tax and not increased tax. When the layer limit remains, this does not mean that the tax is increased but that it remains. In addition, the layer limit will be written up next year. This means that they will pay lower taxes in January 2017 than they did in December 2016. Helena Bouveng says that I have said that a nurse has no problem with giving up an extra hundred. I would like to have a quote on it, because I cannot recall saying something like that. Helena Bouveng asks who is a high-income earner. There we Social Democrats have been clear. If you earn over $5,000 a month, we think it is reasonable to pay a little higher tax. That is why we are stepping up the job tax deduction for those who earn over 50 000 SEK. This means that those who earn 51,000 dollars a month receive a hundred dollars more in tax. And I certainly believe that they have the opportunity to contribute in this way. It sounds at Helena Bouveng like everything would be much better if you just lowered the tax. Of course, people would get more money in their wallets, of course. It's nice to have a tax cut and more money in your wallet. I think everyone can agree with that. But there is a reverse, that is, what the missing tax money does not go to. What we have seen after eight years of moderate government, for example, is that school results fall faster than in any other analogue country. That is the result. We leave the children at school without giving them the support they need. Certainly it is cozy and good for the wallet with an extra tax reduction in the form of a sixth job tax deduction, as Helena Bouveng proposes. But what does it help when children do not receive the support they need at school?
i-1355c2314d348b14-460	Madam President, I would like I believe that the Minister for Finance and I fully agree that the most important factor for us to develop and invest is precisely what the Minister for Finance is talking about: that more people have a job to go to, not less, that we get more hours worked, not less, and that more people choose to work further up in the ages, not less. Unfortunately, even the government does not believe that their policies lead to more jobs; on the contrary, it believes that there will be fewer. Something we rarely talk about is the fact that GDP growth is largely dependent on Marie's family and other families consuming. It is more important now than in previous economic upsurges. The policy of the Red Green Government leads not only to fewer hours worked, but also to tax increases on jobs and labour income and uncertainties around more political decisions. Household optimism decreases when there is less left in the wallet, which means that you hold a little harder in it. The expectations of households and families twelve months ahead have been much more pessimistic since the Magdalena Andersson government took office. I therefore wonder if it does not concern the feminist– I mean, of course, the Minister of Finance; it is late now – that families with ordinary incomes now choose to keep their wallets tighter rather than feel safe to consume both services and goods. What about the common welfare?
i-1355c2314d348b14-463	Madam President, I would like The feminist – that's a good thing to say! I'm in favour! I also think we both are. Looks like we're on the same page. If you have the same tax in January of one year as in December of the previous year, you do not have increased tax. And if you have lower taxes in January of a year than in December of the previous year, it is a reduced tax. With the stratum changes that we are making, it can then be said that there will be reduced taxes rather than increased taxes. On the other hand, there is an increase in taxes for those who earn over 50 000 a month, and this is an important part of government policy. Helena Bouveng correctly says that domestic demand has taken a large part of the economic upturn. This is because the previous government chose to spend a lot of money precisely on domestic demand. It has been very good for many households to be able to both renovate kitchens and buy new things for money, although some who have a little higher income have certainly put them on foreign trips rather than on domestic consumption. But it has also had a price, namely that welfare has not received the resources it needs. That price is currently paid by the children who do not receive the support they need at school.
i-1355c2314d348b14-468	Madam President, I would like Mr Quicklund has asked the Minister for the Interior what measures he intends to take to further curb the existence of match fixing. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I as Minister of Sport who will respond to the interpellation. All sports are based on fair play and the sports movement both has and takes a great responsibility to maintain fair play. It is a matter of survival for sport and is necessary in order to maintain the confidence of sport both among its members and among the general public. To make it easier for the sports movement to take on this responsibility is not least my task and that of the government. Match fixing is therefore a recurring issue in my dialogue with the sports movement. Officials from the relevant parts of the Government Office also participate in meetings with sports federations, Svenska Spel and the relevant authorities in the work against match fixing led by the Swedish Sports Federation. These meetings are an important complement to the active work against match fixing carried out by the various players. On 24 September, the Government decided to appoint a special investigator with a mandate to submit proposals for a new gaming regulation. Although this is not the main task of the investigator, the directives on match fixing are clear. The government states that match fixing is a threat to sport and that it is important that betting does not harm sport and that sport can have an influence on the sporting results on which betting should be allowed. The investigator is responsible for assessing, among other things, whether measures need to be taken to counteract game-related match fixing and to submit proposals for new legislation. The investigator shall also analyse whether it should be regulated to what extent sporting competitions may be used as gaming objects.
i-1355c2314d348b14-472	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Sport, for your answer. I hope for a broad consensus on the issue of match fixing. I also raise issues of violence both inside and outside the stands. Violence and threats interfere with the values of sport. It is important that we review and emphasise this. Established or manipulated matches, also called match fixing, as I emphasise in my interpellation, have increased in Sweden in recent years and are a growing threat to Swedish elite sports. We are currently relatively spared in this country from illegal gambling and match fixing in organised form, but as with other crime we can also count on quite a large number of darkness. The recent trial in Kristianstad is in itself unique. For the first time we can see defendants in three ranks: from player to intermediary and above all to the person higher up in the hierarchy who initiated the fix with the match. This trial is made possible by the fact that one of the players has reported these events. The people who organize games in illegal form around our elite matches are finally being held accountable. The problem may be that many players do not dare to make themselves known. That's why it's going to be a dark number. I hope that this trial can lead to a clear step down, so that the problem of organized games if our elite matches are not too big. Brå recently released a report on the match fixing problem. It says that investigations related to match fixing are time-consuming and complex. It is often necessary to map transactions and international legal aid to prove bribery. The report points out what I mentioned earlier, namely that it is difficult to get people to witness. It's very clear. Madam President, I would like What are the actors involved in this type of crime? How does manipulation work? How does the recruitment of players and judges take place, and what markets does the cheating exist in? In what types of games, and how is it financed? These are important issues that Mr Brå also points out and which we have a responsibility to keep track of. Therefore, I would also like to ask: how does the Minister for Sport intend to proceed with the issues raised by Mr Brå in his report?
i-1355c2314d348b14-477	Madam President, I would like I also want to thank Saila Quicklund for the interpellation. It feels good that we can agree across party and block borders on this issue. As Saila Quicklund points out, this is not as widespread a phenomenon in Sweden as in some other countries, but it gives all the more reason to keep an eye on it early and ensure that we can work together across borders to counteract it. As I said, I am very pleased that we have good cooperation at national level, not least with the Swedish Sports Federation, and that not least the new management of the Swedish Sports Federation takes this issue very seriously. We have had that order, and it was also the case under previous governments, to be very open to the views of the sports movement on whether and how the government should act on this issue. There have been no such comments so far. I think that is proof that the cooperation is working very well. Now we are waiting for the legal proceedings that are under way. I don't want to comment on them while they're going on. We still do not know what the outcome will be or whether it will lead to further analysis and perhaps also discussion of legislative changes or other measures. For the time being, I am pleased to note that the investigation that the government has now set up in the game area will also deal with match fixing issues. This helps us to keep our focus on these important issues.
i-1355c2314d348b14-481	Madam President, I would like In his reply to me, the Minister refers to the gambling investigation launched by the Minister's colleague Ardalan Shekarabi. The Minister refers to the fact that the investigator will, among other things, assess whether other measures need to be taken to counteract game-related match fixing and make the necessary constitutional proposals. One of the things I mentioned in my first speech is the fear that players may have of going to the police and the judiciary at all. I would like to stress that it is particularly important for sportspeople to feel safe in their practice and that any legislation that is needed takes into account the possibility for athletes to sound the alarm in a safe and legally secure way. The obvious result can, of course, be difficulties in recruiting young people for the sports movement, that sponsors start to hesitate and that supporters also fail the sports movement, which would be very unfortunate. The Swedish Sports Federation's new chairman Björn Eriksson wrote in a debate article in Aftonbladet that the gaming companies themselves are making arrangements for fixed matches by offering more different options in, for example, football matches, such as red cards and the number of goals scored. We also know that the drafts are there. In his reply to my interpellation, the Minister writes that in the game investigation that has been presented, the investigator will also analyse whether it should be regulated to what extent sports competitions should be used as gaming objects. I believe that the problem is as great for sport as for gaming companies. Online gambling companies that hold an EU licence do not allow cash, which is what criminals exclusively work with. Electronic transactions that are traceable are something that they really avoid. But it is also, Madam President, about the joy of playing, that those who play should feel safe with the gaming company they have chosen. Suspicions of cheating risk killing the joy of gambling and causing gaming companies difficulties to attract customers. For the gaming companies with business assignments – I am talking mainly about ATG, which has a clear responsibility towards the trotting sport – a declining gaming interest would be economically devastating. I am thinking of the 30 000 jobs in the trotting port. Precisely the organized game, the match fixing, is an important issue to look at with the recently launched investigation, where one intends to develop a brand new license model for games. It is, Madam President, a matter of trust in Swedish sport. Fair play is the watchword for all sports. Otherwise, there is a great risk that sporting events and the sports movement themselves will have a bad reputation as a result of this. This and the issue of violence both inside and outside our arenas are central to the work of making sporting events pleasant events. I would like to mention this because it is central to ensuring that sport does not lose its attractiveness. The Alliance Government proposed, inter alia, a police register containing information on persons who have been banned from entry and that sports organisations should have the right to access it and process data in the register in order to prevent the entry of persons with a ban on access. The current government has announced a ban on masking. I am pleased that there seems to be consensus on this issue and that the Social Democrats have joined the line of re-regulating the Swedish gambling market.
i-1355c2314d348b14-493	Madam President, I would like I can only say once again, as Mrs Quicklund did in her speech, that there is a broad consensus on these issues. It would be weird if I didn't. We all protect a strong sports movement in Sweden. It is clear that this kind of degeneracy risks undermining confidence in the sports movement if we do not act as forcefully as I think we have done and as we should of course continue to do in the future. I think that, with this debate, we have once again shown that we are able to cooperate across party and block borders on important issues – in this case, it is about the sports movement. I welcome it and look forward to a continued dialogue with Saila Quicklund and the Moderates on this issue.
i-1355c2314d348b14-495	Madam President, I would like I'm also very happy that there's a consensus. I think it is important that we discuss the issues in order to make it clear that we share each other's views and that it is very important for sport. It's a matter of trust, if anything. I think it is very good that the Swedish Sports Federation, the police, Svenska Spel and the Swedish Prosecution Authority have already built up a good collaboration. We also have this thing about calling in and tipping if you suspect some kind of match fixing and so on. Many efforts are underway. I am pleased with the Minister's reply. We're going in the same direction and so on. I think that the debate, if we are to call it that, was very valuable to many who wonder: What is happening? Are there any differences of opinion about this? I thank the Minister for the interpellation debate.
i-1355c2314d348b14-499	Madam President, I would like I can thank you once again.
i-1355c2314d348b14-500	Madam President, I would like Lotta Finstorp has asked me how I see the phenomenon that more and more people are taking out their own health insurance policies and whether this is a development that I and the government are striving for. The interpellant has also asked me what measures I intend to take to increase the confidence of the population of Sweden in publicly funded health care. A basic starting point for the Swedish healthcare system is that care should be provided on equal terms and as needed, democratically managed and jointly funded. The optimal allocation of resources and care interventions is a fundamental organisational principle in Swedish healthcare. Resources should primarily be allocated to those areas where needs are greatest. Despite good conditions in an international perspective, evaluations of healthcare in Sweden have shown relatively significant regional as well as different types of social differences in both health and care. Addressing uneven health conditions is an important issue for the government. Everyone should have equal access to care regardless of their place of residence and social and economic status. The resources and interventions of the healthcare system should thus be allocated according to medical needs and not according to the ability of individuals and groups to pay. A number of initiatives have been taken to achieve a more equal level of health care. Examples include the work carried out in the areas of cancer, mental illness and chronic diseases, as well as efforts to develop knowledge support and management with knowledge. In order for us to have more equal care throughout the country, the national and knowledge-based guidelines in healthcare need to have a greater impact. The increasing number of health insurances in Sweden means that there is a need to review the legislation so that private insurance patients cannot pass by in the queue in the publicly funded care. The basic principle that care should be allocated as needed should be upheld. It is important that the people of Sweden continue to have confidence in health care. The Government has therefore announced in the budget proposal for 2016 a number of initiatives in the health sector aimed at increasing welfare and security in Sweden. Healthcare is allocated SEK 1 billion extra in 2016 and SEK 500 million extra per year from 2017. In addition, important investments are made in women's health and improved mental health for young people. The Government also allocates SEK 1 billion per year to stimulate better and more efficient use of healthcare skills. Another important part of increasing confidence in health care is to ensure that tax funds are used in the best possible way. Against this background, the Government has set up an investigation into a new regulatory framework for public financing of private welfare services ( Dir. 2015:22). The purpose of the investigation is to ensure that public funds are used for the specific activities for which they are intended and in such a way as to benefit users and that any surpluses are, as a general rule, to be returned to the activities in which they have arisen. In addition, the Government has provided funds for the work on the ethical platform for openness and transparency in health and long-term care. The platform is based on an agreement between the contracting parties and aims to increase the transparency of healthcare and care providers. Transparency should be increased in terms of the quality, economy and conditions of employment of the activities.
i-1355c2314d348b14-509	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The reason I have written the interpellation is that Swedish Radio recently reported that more and more people are taking out their own health insurance policies. The increase is marked. Over the past five years, the number of people with private or employer-paid health insurance has increased by 50 per cent. New figures from the insurance industry show that more than 10 per cent of the working-age population have such insurance. The increase is constantly taking place. For a long time now, individuals have taken out their own health insurance policies. But now it is clear that there are many executives who have previously had them for themselves who take out insurance for their employees. Trade unions offer these insurance policies. Municipalities and industries that previously did not give their employees this benefit now do so. They also grow markedly in numbers. This is no wonder. If you have to stand in line and wait for an operation or a measure longer than the 90 days provided for by the health guarantee, you lose income as an individual worker. The company or municipality may find it difficult to recruit substitutes. And the work load on those who remain and are not on sick leave can be much heavier. I would therefore like to draw the Minister's attention to this, hence my questions. In fact, I think that this question is much greater than what is stated in the answer. It is about a population in Sweden that no longer feels that the care is credible to them and that you have to find other solutions while paying the world's highest tax to get this care or treatment. Then we will also have a parallel system, which I know the Social Democrats in particular have been extremely critical of, but now more and more private insurance policies are taking place at a very high speed. Open comparisons, for example, between county councils and how long it takes to get an operation completed, show frightening statistics. I am convinced that the Minister is following it very clearly. SKL has very good measuring instruments and tools both for the individual patient and for us politicians so that we can see what it looks like in the county councils and how long people have to wait. It was therefore surprising that the proposal put forward by the Minister last autumn came at all before it was withdrawn. It is, of course, a development that goes in the wrong direction if you compare it with the number of newly signed private insurance policies.
i-1355c2314d348b14-516	Madam President, I would like I can start with the question put by Lotta Finstorp at the end: There has never been any ambition on the part of the government to reduce the number of healthcare providers. However, just like Lotta Finstorp, it is a worrying development if there are more people who feel obliged to take out private health insurances because they are in various ways dissatisfied with the publicly funded care. It is a concern that I take very seriously, and I am also very pleased that Lotta Finstorp seems to do so. In order to counteract this development, we need to focus on how we can improve the quality of public health care in Sweden. Then we have a number of challenges that we face. Perhaps the biggest challenge is that we have an ageing population that already today requires a great deal of care and will do so in the future. This means that an increasing proportion of the resources allocated to health care will be allocated to the older population. Already today, we know that about 80 - 85% of healthcare resources go to people suffering from chronic diseases. It is a rather small group of the total population in Sweden that the largest part of the health care resources actually go to. At the same time, we know that our healthcare systems are not always adapted to the needs of these groups. Many times, the patient is not placed at the centre of attention. Different types of care processes and episodes are not based on the patient's needs and unique conditions. If we are to meet the demographic development we are facing, improve the quality of healthcare and improve accessibility, I think we need to switch healthcare to becoming more patient-centred. Then we need to change the health care system and carry out the cultural shift needed to see those patients who may have the greatest needs. Against this ambition is the development of private health insurance. We know not least from reports that the OECD has released that private health insurance often does not, as one might think, lead to the relief of public-funded care, that patients who can pay receive care more quickly but that it also leads to more resources being directed towards those patients who remain in the public-funded system. Instead, it leads to an increase in total consumption of care without, according to OECD reports, the patients remaining in the publicly funded system actually benefiting from it. Of course, it is also a worrying development if this proves to be true for Swedish relations too – that we increase the consumption of health services without the patients who have the greatest needs or without it actually increasing the added value in general. I would like once again to thank Lotta Finstorp for the interpellation, because it is a very important issue that we have to deal with.
i-1355c2314d348b14-525	Madam President, I would like I believe that this whole interpellation debate is really about Swedish health care. What the Minister said at the end was that, if I pull it together, overconsumption is a problem. I share this view, but it may also have to do with the fact that the system does not allow people to come to or get time in health care. Instead, you go to the emergency room and you sit there, where the demographically weaker groups, which are the older ones, may well exist. We've been talking about patient-centred healthcare for a very long time. I believe that all county councils have it in their values, strategies and so on. What is the Minister's view on why this does not work? For me, patient-centred care is about participation, that I can choose which authority I want to go regardless of who runs the care. It would be interesting to hear what the Minister says about patient-centred care and why it never really comes to be. We're talking about it, we're writing about it, but it's never really like that. Then there is another question, I think. There are good ambitions for equal care and so on in government policy. But where does municipal self-government end up in this? There are huge differences in Sweden in terms of health care and accessibility, and the more a government lies on saying that it should now be done in this way, the more local self-government is reduced. I have no answer to that question, but I think it is an interesting discussion. Finally, we end up with a government giving so many assignments to county councils that it might be better if the health care system in Sweden was run at national level – what do I know? There were some questions I was thinking about. In addition, there is now a concern that is out there, especially among the alternative-driven activities. The welfare investigation, which has now been extended, has also halted investment and development, as it is in a waiting position. This also reduces accessibility. When we look at SKL's statistics, www.vantetide.se, we see that primary care is doing very well. If we look at Sweden, at the moment yesterday when I pulled this out, we can see that it was 90 percent that got in touch with primary care within seven days. It's incredibly good. But that satisfied-patient index is so high in primary care should be attributed to the health choice. There has been a real reform to put the patient at the centre. So I would like to hear a little bit about how the Minister views this with patient-focused care, patient-centred care and preferably something about municipal self-government.
i-1355c2314d348b14-533	Madam President, I would like I am going to start at the end of my previous speech, which deals precisely with those patients who benefit from 80 to 85% of the health care resources due to the fact that they suffer from chronic diseases in particular. The problem is that in the professions of health care, in politicians and in the general public, it is still the prevailing belief that health care is for someone who has had an infection, broken a leg or otherwise had an accident, comes to health care, gets a treatment and hopefully leaves healthy and then does not come back for a number of decades. So we have a different perception of who is a norm patient in health care than those who are actually. The whole approach needs to be changed. It is essential to get a patient-centred healthcare system seriously. It requires a major change in culture. Everyone who has worked with different types of organizational changes understands that it is difficult to bring about a cultural change. It requires clear leadership from the hierarchy, and it requires ownership of the changes that must be made throughout the organization. This is the main reason why we can see that patient-centred care has not been fully implemented in the healthcare system. The government is trying to offer clear leadership, partly by pointing out a clear goal and a vision that healthcare should be more centered around the patient than it is today, partly by pointing out a number of strategic issues that we need to work with the county councils and other actors in the healthcare sector to bring about a change. The first and most important change concerns the supply of skills. We know that there are problems with the supply of skills today. It may not always be a shortage across the country in general. We've never had as many doctors or nurses as we have today. But in some places there is a shortage of doctors, and in some places there is a shortage of nurses. We have to address that. The answer cannot simply be to increase the number of training places. Let's do that. The answer must also be sought in how we can organise the work better and relieve unnecessary administration, how we can ensure that the interaction between different parts of the healthcare system is improved, and how we can ensure that patients, by taking greater responsibility for their own recovery, their own illness, also relieve health care. This brings us to the second priority that the government has set itself, namely the work on e-health. It is amazing that we have a health system with the most innovative technological achievements that humanity has come to. At the same time, the situation is that the IT systems don't talk to each other. When changing health care providers, which is increasingly being done today than before, the records must be printed or, at best, scanned and sent over, rather than automatically. Everyone understands that it creates frustration and takes time from not least the professions of health care. I did not have time to answer all of Lotta Finstorp's questions, but I hope to return in the next post. But these are some of the issues we are working on in the government.
i-1355c2314d348b14-542	Madam President, I would like It is clear that we see the same problems in health care in Sweden. It's just how we get there that looks different. The definition of patient-centred care can be very different depending on which politician is asked. Participation and freedom of choice, which are the arena of the Alliance, as well as the arena of the government and the red-green parties, are in a different way. Healthcare deserves more consensus where patient-centred care is at the centre. The original question is about the increase in the number of private health insurances. Fine! I guess there's no problem with them. Even those people pay as much tax as others do, but they still have to have private insurance. But if the individual can be put more at the centre, more people would be satisfied with what county councils and alternative care providers provide. I've been looking at the details of the time taken care of. It is really striking that primary care is doing well, but the waiting time for surgery and action in specialised care should be 90 days. In Örebro County, which stands out, 51 percent of patients wait more than 90 days for surgery. It is clear that those who have the opportunity to take out a private health insurance and then have to wait perhaps for two weeks. Thank you for the debate. I think it will continue.
i-1355c2314d348b14-547	Madam President, I would like I very much hope that we will continue the debate. It is very possible that there are different definitions of patient-centred care. Definitions may depend on political opinion or ideology. One problem may be that the different definitions may depend on where you are in the healthcare system or what perspectives you have. Regardless of which, we benefit from making these definitions, setting clear goals and ideas on how to approach patient-centred care. We are both looking to create a health system that is not primarily for itself or for its own bureaucratic rules, but for the patients you meet. Now I'm simplifying, but it can be as simple as a patient who visits his doctor being told that a sample must be taken and then come back for return visits. There may be a number of processes spanning many weeks, causing the patient to take time off from work many times and then with concern wait for test reports. But in fact, technically and organisationally, it would certainly be possible to resolve this in one day. The problem is often not that it is impossible, but that the care is not used to thinking that way because the care is not used to starting from the patient's perspective, but from its own bureaucratic and organisational phenomena. This is what we have to fight with. I do not think that the solution is just about different forms of operation, although it may be part of the solution. This is something we have to solve regardless of the mode of operation. I am sure this will lead to more debates and more discussions. I very much welcome them.
i-1355c2314d348b14-552	Madam President, I would like Lotta Finstorp has asked me what initiatives I intend to take to reduce the acute lack of psychological treatment in primary care and whether I do not think it is time to extend the free choice of care so that patients' empowerment is not restricted and reduced. Initially, I would like to emphasise that mental health is a priority for the government and that it is an important part of the government's ambition to close the irreversible health gaps within a generation. However, health care is so organised that it is the county councils and municipalities that have the main responsibility for organising and directing their activities so that all residents have access to accessible care of good quality. There is, and has long been, a lack of competence in psychotherapy and psychological treatment in primary care, as a complement or alternative to drug treatment – this despite strong scientific support. However, access is steadily increasing, and since 2009, access to CBT treatment has increased by 94% in the country. According to an inventory carried out by the county councils themselves, ten county councils state that they currently have a good or relatively good access to psychological treatment in primary care with staff with basic competence in the CBT. I think this is a positive development. At the same time, the development of accessible care for people affected by mental illness requires continued systematic work by all actors involved. In order to get a more coherent effort to counteract the increasing mental illness and the rising sickness rates, we are currently reviewing the government's efforts in the area of mental health in parallel with the focus on the rehabilitation guarantee. My assessment is that it is of great importance to draw conclusions from the model that has been applied in recent years in terms of both good and less good experiences, i.e. in order to achieve an effective development where the patient is at the centre and where everyone, based on needs, is offered evidence-based care and treatment for mental illness. On the question of whether I do not think it is time to extend the free choice of care so that patients' empowerment is not restricted and reduced, I would like to mention the new patient law that came into force on 1 January 2015. Through the Patient Act, the patient has the opportunity to choose publicly funded primary care and outpatient specialised care, regardless of the type of operation, throughout the country. Since the patient law is based on the obligations that the care has towards patients, the county council has an obligation to maintain the requirements for choice for the patient that the law regulates. The government is in favour of the choices the patient has under the Patient Act and therefore does not intend to change this. Landstingen is currently obliged to have care choice systems according to the Act(2008:962) on freedom of choice. The mandatory requirement can be seen as a restriction of municipal self-government, as it has created obstacles to the possibility for health care professionals to design and develop their own models for good primary care, with citizens' right to good care at the centre. The welfare inquiry(Fi 2015:01) has therefore been tasked with making suggestions on how the regulation can be changed so that county councils should not be obliged to have care choice systems in the primary care according to LOV but while maintaining the possibility for patients to choose the publicly funded outpatients according to the patient law. The assignment shall be presented by 1 November 2016.
i-1355c2314d348b14-561	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Today, mental illness is the most common cause of longer sick leave. More than one in three new sick leave depends on the type of diagnosis that has mental illness as a collective name. In parallel with the alarm reports of increased mental illness, it is increasingly alerted that receiving health centres can provide the right care to those affected by fatigue syndrome or other stress-related diseases. One reason for this is a lack of knowledge. Only 3 of the district doctors' 60 - month specialist training is about psychiatry. This is despite the fact that depression and anxiety are among the most common diseases. Another reason is that there are no national guidelines on how to work with mental illness in primary care. There is also a lack of behavioural scientists in primary care. It is often to primary care that you only come when you feel mentally ill. This is particularly true of the kind of mental illness that is not depression or psychosis-like. As it is now, it is up to the individual doctor, which in practice means that one can get sick leave for a long time and receive antidepressants, while in another county council there can be shorter sick leave and other treatments, such as CBT, for the same symptoms. That is unreasonable, because in the end it is the patient who suffers. That is why we must work to ensure more equal care, as the Minister said. There we really have a common understanding – there is a need for national guidelines on these diagnoses, and they should also be based on evidence. There is also something alarming that you hear from all over the country: You may hire people with a certain competence who have a very short complement in, for example, CBT, and then it is equated with having a behavioral scientist who can handle these matters. It is compared to a psychologist or psychotherapist who has a much longer education to help with these diagnoses. It is worrying that it is mostly for women with these diagnoses that sick leave increases, especially for women in contact professions. Those working in health care tend to become ill more often and feel ill mentally. Then there is a lot of research of various kinds that shows that it can have at least as much meaning how you feel in your private life as how you feel in the workplace, but one can surely say that it is primarily the workplace and the treatment if you have received this diagnosis that is the mission of politics. There's a need for more behavioral scientists. It is also worrying: Many young people study to become a psychologist abroad, and what the National Board of Health and Welfare does is that it does not approve that those people have their internship in Sweden. Instead, you should have it in Hungary, for example – psychotherapy in Hungarian in Hungary when you are Swedish. This means that we do not have enough psychologists who are certified in Sweden. We now see that at the rate that sick leave increases, more people need to be employed who have good skills for these diagnoses. I would like us to broaden the debate to include competence and how we can get it in place.
i-1355c2314d348b14-573	Madam President, I would like I think it is a good debate that we have, because this is a great challenge. In addition to the debate that we had earlier this evening, which was about how to change health care and put the patient at the centre, but also to meet the challenges that we face, including an ageing population, there is this worrying challenge. It is about the increase in mental illness and will be a huge problem, not least for health care. It is already today, but it will be even bigger in the near future. As I stated in the interpellation response, the government is currently engaged in a round-up of interventions against mental illness. The starting point for this exercise is that, with the experience that has been gained since the psychiatric reform was carried out in the mid-1990s, the state's efforts should be able to continue. Some of the experience we have gained during 20 years of state policy in this area is that too much of the effort has been directed at specialised psychiatry, that too much of the effort has been carried out in project form and that too much of the effort has been carried out with a very short perspective. All in all, this has led to a lack of the whole. We have been unable to persevere in the development work that has nevertheless been carried out and has proved to be workable. It has created uncertainty, not least in the business. This is why the takeover that the government is currently working on is starting to have a much more long-term perspective. It is also based on focusing not only on specialised psychiatry but also on early intervention and on prevention and promotion efforts to ensure that people never have to end up in specialised psychiatry. In this work, just as Lotta Finstorp has been at primary care, primary care has a key role to play because that is where you are looking for it. Many times you may go there for somatic troubles and learn that they are due to something completely different — fatigue depression or the like. I fully agree that we need to disseminate knowledge much more clearly and that we also need to focus on skills provision. But above all, we need to make the whole chain stick together. Today, we lack the structures for early intervention and definitely for health promotion and prevention. With the efforts of the state and with the over billion a year that the government has announced that we want to invest in this area from next year, I hope that we will be able to overcome some of the problems, start building more long-term and sustainable structures, be able to see the whole chain of different types of interventions that must even and above all be able to help people before the problems become so big that they end up in specialised psychiatry.
i-1355c2314d348b14-581	Madam President, I would like The Minister and I really agree that prevention is the important thing. Now the Minister is not a Minister for Social Security, but I can still mention that there is something called preventive sick leave, but it is never really used. I would like you to look at it a little extra to see if you could lift it up a little more. I'm writing a report on mental illness among women. What the women interviewed describe is that fatigue syndrome has come sneaky. They would have needed help to stop it, perhaps by reducing working hours. But then, above all, the public sector, because that is, unfortunately, where you see most sick leave, must act. Women also describe that when they fall in working hours, there is no one working at the 25% they have fallen, but then you have to do 100 percent in 75 percent of the time. The result is completely reversed. I would also like to mention Finsam. The women – we are talking about women because it is mainly where we see that sick leave leaves – have been on sick leave for a long time, have been the subject of interventions by various authorities and so on. Co-operation from both the state level with Arbetsförmedlingen and Försäkringskassan as well as from the county councils and municipalities is necessary in terms of funding. Otherwise we will not make it in Sweden. I'm on the Social Security Committee, and that's where we have to deal with Finsam. When traveling in the country, it is always the county councils that get on the fur because they are not involved in Finsam cooperation. I think this is because county council representatives do not directly see the added value of being part of Finsam cooperation. They pay in their share of the money, but they are not active in cooperation. As a former county council politician, I can say that we never asked what the money was for. I hear that from all over Sweden. I would like to appeal to the Minister to highlight the cooperation of Finsam when he visits the county councils. If you gathered more from politics both in municipalities and county councils and worked together with Försäkringskassan and Arbetsförmedlingen, it could be a way to get women back to work earlier, i.e. to have a good bridge between sick leave and return to work. Then I think you have to have the courage to change employers. There comes the possibility of several practitioners in, for example, the public sector. You could change your employer when it has gone so far that there is no return and you are on sick leave because you feel bad in the workplace. Then a solution can be to change employers if, for example, you are a nurse. I am concerned that the welfare inquiry may hamper the possibility of more employers for us women in the contact professions. I think it can be an obstacle precisely when it comes to fatigue syndrome and the possibility of changing employers. I was also going to ask the Minister about the health guarantee. It would be good to review the possibility of introducing a health guarantee for psychological treatment in primary care as well. Does the Minister see this as an opportunity, for example, for a more rapid return to work? I do not mean that people who are on sick leave should be forced to return, but it is about getting care and treatment more quickly if you have a guarantee of care even for psychological treatments.
i-1355c2314d348b14-589	Madam President, I would like To answer the last question, first of all, I would like to say that I am not prepared to say either bu or ba, but in view of the very worrying development that we are in the midst of, I do not want to dismiss any ideas without having tried them properly. What we are now doing with the government's concerns about our efforts to combat mental illness is trying to see the whole picture, that in addition to investing in specialised psychiatry also invest in early interventions and, as I mentioned earlier, in the prevention and promotion work. The latter two are conducted very sporadicly, I would say. In some places they work very well with preventive measures. You work really well with early interventions. But elsewhere you don't do it at all. My ambition is for us to have a more long-term strategy in place that contributes to that it should not be freely chosen work to work preventively and with early efforts against mental illness but that it should be done across the country. If we can do that, I think we will overcome some problems that exist when it comes to accessibility, for example, which we have discussed, and that more people who are in risk groups or risk zones are discovered earlier, can get help earlier and never have to end up in long-term sick leave and the problem described by Lotta Finstorp. In order to do so, I believe that the state needs to change its attitude and concentrate more on the elements that may have been neglected in the past and instead work more long-term. Perhaps the biggest challenge is just what Lotta Finstorp is about, the coordination between different actors. We know that it is a phenomenon found in a wide range of operations in Sweden. We're good at working in drainpipes, but not so good at working in rammers. This is particularly true in this area, I would say. That is why we are now working on finding structures that can work supportively, which can facilitate cooperation, which can help to spread knowledge to different actors. This also makes it possible to put the patient's needs at the heart of the issue. I'm not saying it's going to be easy, but I think we're on the right track when we point out the long-term perspective and put our focus on the whole picture as a method for starting to get to grips with the work on mental illness. What Lotta Finstorp also rightly points out is that many of those suffering from mental illness, many of those affected, are women working in contact professions. The public sector has a special responsibility here, because prevention does not need to be done in the form of contacts with health centres or with different types of centres. Instead, it can be done by having better leadership in the public sector, by organising the work better and by preventing the occurrence of mental illness. Psychic ill-health, of course, is a great suffering for individuals, but it also entails, as must be stressed, enormous direct costs for the employer.
i-1355c2314d348b14-597	Madam President, I would like I think I'll pick up where the minister left off. Organising work in such a way as to avoid or prevent mental illness as far as possible is extremely important. It is therefore alarming that it is in the public sector that the increases are taking place. I think that we politicians in municipalities and county councils really need to think about this. One of the interviews I've done for my report is about the role of middle managers. I've spoken to middle managers in the public sector. It is unreasonable to have 70 employees to have development discussions with. You should see how they are, and you should also have financial responsibility for the business. It is often precisely the middle managers in the public sector who are not able to cope. I believe that politicians in the country, regardless of their party colours, have a role to play. The middle manager I interviewed told me that what's happening is that you take away the peripheral resources. When it is to be saved, you remove the secretary, you remove the IT expert, and suddenly the middle manager will do everything. It brings with it an inhuman pressure. If you work as a nurse in a hospital, you also have enormous pressure there. It is, of course, at all levels, and I think that from politics we have to think about and not scale away where it is easiest to do so. In addition, I think we need to work towards a better use of concepts in terms of symptoms. There is no comparison between a psychosis and the woman who has a stress-related fatigue syndrome. Then I come back to municipal self-government. The more national strategies come, the more local self-government decreases. Right or wrong may be unsaid.
i-1355c2314d348b14-602	Madam President, I would like There's a lot of hooks to hook here. I can begin with the latter, the municipal self-government. There has long been a smouldering debate as to whether we should retain the model that we have today, where the county councils are responsible for health care, or whether we should have government health care. This is often cited in the name of equality and efficiency. What has crystallized for several years is a development driven by governments of different party colours and which has been quite positive. We have started to find an intermediate route where we can work with a certain increase in government responsibility especially when it comes to coordination of different processes but where the structure remains basically, i.e. the county councils are responsible for health care. I think it is a model that can be built on. This applies not least if we succeed in what the government has set itself as an objective, to get to larger but fewer regions in Sweden that are not least responsible for health care. In this way, efficiency and the search for greater equality can be reconciled with a regional anchoring which means that the methods and solutions can look a little different across the country but still contribute to the overall objectives of equal care across the country. Finally, I should like to make a few comments. Some of the issues we have talked about today are ultimately about the resources of health care. We add more money from the government to health care. That will probably not be enough given the great challenge we face. Nevertheless, that is what the discussion must be about. It is about how we can free up more resources for health care and not prioritise other things such as tax cuts.
i-1355c2314d348b14-606	Madam President, I would like Lotta Finstorp has asked me what I intend to do to strengthen equestrian sport and to meet the needs of many facilities, such as the need for disability adaptation, maintenance and renovation. As the interpellant himself is involved, sports facilities are largely a voluntary municipal matter. I believe that municipal self-government is essential when it comes to the question of which sports and leisure facilities to invest in out in the municipalities. State sports policy is based on a division of roles between the State and the overall sports movement, in which the State sets out in principle only the objectives and objectives of State aid. It is not for the government to prioritise between different sports, and I am a strong supporter of this division of roles. This government chooses to increase support for sport because we believe in the Swedish sports movement and the activities it carries out. The Government's budget proposal proposes that state support for sport should increase by a total of SEK 197 million in 2016 and by an additional SEK 30 million by 2018. This is a bet that benefits all sports, including equestrian sports. Within the framework of the Sports Lift, the country's equestrian associations have received construction support, including for disability adjustments, with a total of SEK 35 million in 2007–2014. This support has also been exchanged by other financiers, often municipalities, to SEK 233 million. By significantly increasing state support for sports, we enable the sports movement to make further efforts, especially on children's and young people's sports.
i-1355c2314d348b14-611	Ma'am, ma'am! Thank you for your answer, Minister. Ridsporten is a very big sport in Sweden. It has a multitude of practitioners, not least disabled. It is incredibly important and good for them in their rehabilitation that they ride. It is half a million Swedes who have equestrian sport as their leisure activity. Many of them also compete. It is Sweden's second largest youth sport. It's only football that's bigger. Among girls, it's the biggest sport in the world. Fewer people are involved in football. Riding is an important sport and leisure activity for girls. What you see in the country is that many municipalities have invested in, for example, large ice halls. There the girls have very little time to practice figure skating or girl hockey. The boys take a very big place in the ice rinks. It costs the municipalities a great deal to build the large ice halls. What has happened is that the riding facilities have had to stand back. What we are now seeing are horseback riding facilities in about the same decay as the million-dollar program areas. Therefore, it is also very expensive when municipalities have to start adapting their facilities based, for example, on new legislation such as animal welfare legislation. There should be some measurements of boxes and so on. In the end, you have to completely rebuild it. It is also possible to close down riding schools because they do not meet the requirements. There is also no money to rebuild. That is why, among other things, I have written the interpellation. What's happening is not good. I also see horseback riding as a very important part of integration, for example. There are many good examples of that. It's also about girls in leadership, being the leader of a horse. It's incredibly good. Many women who are in leading positions in Sweden both in the corporate world and in politics have been riders, race riders or have been riding at riding school for many years. They are thus learned to cooperate with horses and others in stables but also to be leaders of a large animal. It may sound pathetic, but there's research on it. That's why I'm worried that our riding facilities in many municipalities are so worn out. This makes many choose not to start riding. Children and young people today want freshness. It's not like when I went to riding school and you were warming up at the manure stack because it was hot there, and there you also drank your chocolate. Today it should be fresh, good and of high quality. The Swedish Riding Association works very actively with, for example, raising education for riders, continuing education and so on. But if the facilities are very worn down, that won't help. Today there are 905 clubs. It's about half of them running a riding school. I think these numbers are from 2013. It's a very big sport, but I'm very worried. Together with others, I am also pushing for the riding to be approved as a health care. If you did so and linked it to an approved riding facility, it could give more revenue to the horseback riding. In this way, there would be money to further develop, rebuild and invest in the riding facilities. My question is linked to the health care allowance, which we have debated in the House in the past. I would like the Minister to link the answer a little bit to the health care allowance in order to bring income to the horseback riding.
i-1355c2314d348b14-620	Madam President, I would like Like Lotta Finstorp, we have debated the issue of health care allowance before. My answer was then and is now that the question will be prepared during the parliamentary term. There are various aspects of the health care allowance as such which make it necessary to take a closer look at it as a whole, not least on the basis of the possibility of being able to make this type of deduction for riding. When we get to the basic question, I agree in large part with Lotta Finstorp's description of the condition in Sweden today for the equestrian sport and for the riding facilities but also the opportunities that exist. I was myself and visited a riding school outside Norrköping a few weeks ago that has invested a great deal in being able to receive newly arrived unaccompanied refugee children and saw what a huge difference the riding school makes. It was also very interesting to see and hear that with the help of not least in this case the municipality but also of financial support and support in other ways have been able to develop the business. It also saw an opportunity with the money that the government has set aside and that will go to the integration of new arrivals. It is believed that if you can take part of these it will be able to contribute to the business. This allows you to double the number of hours or otherwise expand your business so that more can participate. I think this is a good thing, because it shows the strength that this type of activity can have, not only in the traditional context but also in helping with the great challenge we have in the reception of refugees. What, however, becomes the problem when we discuss this at national level is precisely to which I refer in the reply that we have the order that this type of plant is, above all, a municipal issue. We have done so because we believe that it is primarily at local level that we can make the kind of trade-offs with investments, subsidies and various solutions that contribute to the best possible conditions for association life and that it would be impossible if the state goes in and governs this. It is therefore primarily a municipal issue, and the role of the state there will be to generally support the municipalities but also to have a continuous dialogue with the sports movement about the ways in which the sports movement may need support. However, there is one aspect, and that is what I raised here, where government money can also be exchanged via the Sports Lift to strengthen the facilities. As I pointed out in my reply, SEK 35 million over a seven-year period means that this money has been exchanged up to nearly a quarter of a billion dollars in this type of support. I believe that some of the money that we are now bringing to the sports movement in the coming years will naturally go to this type of sports facilities and contribute to the development of equestrian sports in particular in the future.
i-1355c2314d348b14-626	Madam President, I would like The issue of health care has been discussed in this House for many years, and horseback riding is one of four sports that are not considered to be healthy. Something healthier than riding, I don't know if it exists, because it's an incredibly good sport from a public health point of view. It is also incredibly equal, which is a good thing when we now have a government that calls itself feminist. Men and women compete on equal terms, for example, and it is one of the few sports where you do that. I was very pleased with myself when I came up with this idea that you could link the health care allowance to riding at an approved riding school. It would also give more revenue to the municipalities and to the clubs. The arguments they heard during the time of the alliance government--I was talking about this issue back then--was that it's so expensive equipment. Golf is also not possible because it is too expensive equipment. But riding in a riding school, well, then it's a ready-made horse, and you can borrow helmets and boots and everything. To connect it that way, I think it would be brilliant, and it might be a way forward to get the ride tax-deductible. It would also provide revenue for the riding school. Riding is unique in the world, and you come from all over the world to watch how Swedish riding schools work. It's really just like a school with a high educational tailfare on both horse and riding teacher, you might say. It's all ages. Those who start riding again today are women my age who have held up a number of years. So it is not really children and young people primarily. We, at my age, certainly also demand that it is fresh and good, but we must also bear in mind that children and young people today have completely different requirements for what they want to do. I am very uneasy about these investments, and I fully agree with the Minister that this is a municipal issue, but perhaps being able to find the way by getting the riding approved as a health care service could make it possible to get more revenue for the riding school and thus make greater investments. In Härnösand, for example, a new horse riding facility has been built for 40 million – it's huge sums of money – in order to stay within the legal requirements that exist. There are different laws that govern the business. It's tough for a lot of municipalities. The municipalities that have allowed their facilities to become far too dwindled must almost level them with the land and build new ones. Then the price tag will be high. It is also a good sport for those who are disabled, as we talked about earlier. It's perfect staffing. The equestrian sport is incredibly accessible and is healing for those who feel ill mentally – the association with an animal, being able to focus only on themselves and the horse and so on. I'm really disappointed that we can't get there any faster with riding as a health care service for the benefit of riding schools.
i-1355c2314d348b14-633	Madam President, I would like As I said, I can only agree with Lotta Finstorp. As I have said, as regards health care allowances for riding, this is an issue that we have debated in the House before and which I have pointed out as an important issue to prepare further, not least with the positive benefits that the riding brings and which Lotta Finstorp has listed here. I think it is good that we have this kind of sporting debate in this House because it shows that we are beginning to move away from the image that sport is just about entertainment. Sport is, in fact, a fundamental part of Swedish society, both for the cohesion between people and different groups and from the perspective that we have debated here today, which is that it contributes to improved public health. In this way, it can also help us to succeed better with many of the other challenges we face, not least in the area of health care. I welcome this debate, and I look forward to working further on sports issues with Lotta Finstorp and with the Moderates.
i-1355c2314d348b14-636	Madam President, I would like I also believe that this issue is something on which broad agreement must be sought. My question is: when can we expect an answer regarding the investigation as to whether horseback riding can become part of health care? It feels like there's a fire in the knots. I talked to the person in charge of social contacts at the Swedish Riding Association, and she had been doing this for about 15 years. Getting riding as part of health care, part of public health, is a very important thing for Sweden. In addition, we should be proud that our riding schools are really something you look at from the different corners of the world. It is also accessible to everyone, both from the perspective of integration and to all residents. There is really no obstacle to anyone. I really keep my fingers crossed because the feminist government takes account of the fact that equestrian sport is a sport for a lot of girls and women. I hope for a positive development of this issue of health care.
i-1355c2314d348b14-639	Madam President, I would like Unfortunately, I cannot say here this evening when we can move forward on this issue, but the ambition is that we should do so during our term of office and that we should be able to take a holistic approach to the issue of deductions, not least in view of the debates we have had in this House before on including horseback riding. I look forward to further discussions on this very urgent and important subject.
i-1355c2314d348b14-641	Madam President, I would like Fredrik Malm has asked me whether I intend to call for boycotts of the World Cup in Russia and Qatar and what demands the state has made on the Swedish Football Association regarding human rights and the association's responsibility as a member of Fifa. Furthermore, Fredrik Malm asks if the government and the Government have a plan for how to act if Swedish citizens, such as LGBT people or journalists, are attacked or imprisoned by the regimes in Russia and Qatar at the upcoming World Cup. In addition, Fredrik Malm asks if Swedish citizens' safety can be guaranteed and what the Government intends to do to condemn the human rights violations taking place in the name of football. Finally, Fredrik Malm asks whether I intend to demand that human rights issues be placed on the agenda as high as environmental issues. In Russia, the trend towards an increasingly narrow sphere of civil society continues. The repression of Russian civil society is increasing, for example through laws that limit the scope for organisations and their ability to operate freely and cooperate and receive assistance from other countries. This development makes it even more important that Sweden continues to have a policy that focuses on our long-term relationship with Russia, which is based on contacts between people, and supports civil society. Sweden does this within the framework of the strategy for Sweden's support for democracy, human rights and the environment in Russia 2014– 2018. Sweden for constructive talks with Qatar's government on the importance of social dialogue. In order to further influence Qatar on issues relating to workers' conditions in the country, our Embassy also participates in various social dialogue conferences in Doha. At the next major conference in Doha in November this year, our Swedish ambassador is invited to participate. It is an opportunity for constructively promoting the Swedish view of social dialogue. The responsibility of international sport in particular for human rights, labour law, anti-corruption, gender equality and the environment is important. The Government considers that international work in the field of sport is based on the principle of a free and independent sports movement, which also has a significant responsibility internationally. In view of the autonomy of sport, the Government considers that voluntary agreements at international level which make demands in these areas are a possible way forward. As a model, the UN Global Compact can serve. It is a voluntary agreement that places fundamental demands on human rights, labour law, anti-corruption and the environment. It is important that sports organisations themselves take responsibility for the fact that they act internationally based on the same sporting values as in Sweden. I welcome the view expressed by the Swedish Sports Federation, RF, in its strategy for international work. In the strategy, RF states that the international exchange of sport is based on respect for the equal value of all people. Swedish sport should have exchanges with other countries regardless of their political system. Derogations can be made for countries subject to binding UN or EU sanctions. If international federations decide to place championships in countries with non-democratic regimes, RF does not call individual practitioners to boycott. RF believes that in such cases there is reason to cooperate with organisations working for human rights or the like in order, among other things, to inform athletes about the political situation in the country. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs monitors developments worldwide and advises against travelling to a country, or parts of a country, when the security situation is deemed to be very dangerous, unpredictable or rapidly changing. What the situation will be in different parts of the world in the context of the forthcoming gentlemen's football championships is still too early to assess. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs will issue any recommendations deemed necessary at any time. In conclusion, I will endeavour to work in cooperation with Swedish sport to safeguard respect for human rights in sport.
i-1355c2314d348b14-655	Madam President, I would like I am replacing Fredrik Malm, who has unfortunately been prevented. I'll try to carry this heavy yoke. I thank the Minister for Sport for his answer. It is urgent to raise these issues. These are workers' rights in countries where protection is very weak. It is also about the sports movement's approach to human rights. Let me therefore start with the most important thing: Fifa would of course never have decided to allow Russia and Qatar to organise the World Cup 2018 and 2022. However, once the decision is made, these two countries have the opportunity to refute all critics and demonstrate that construction projects and other preparations meet international standards in terms of the rights of those involved in the work, transparency in how to use the money and allowing the media to review the work. Unfortunately, Qatar and Russia do not live up to this on one point and disprove critics. On the contrary, their actions have confirmed the fears that we had and that the critics expressed right from the start. In Qatar, for example, 1 400 people have lost their lives during the construction of the arenas, and Russia has legislated away the rights of these workers. Fifa is so corrupt, as we have seen recently, that the organization is unable to set any reasonable limits that we can accept. It is therefore up to states and other actors to raise their voices and make it clear that what is to be arranged in 2018 and 2022 is the World Cup in football and not the World Cup in slave labour and human rights violations. Madam President, I would like I do not have any concrete positions in the Minister's response. Among other things, the Minister says, "Sweden for constructive talks with Qatar's government about the importance of a social dialogue." In order to further influence Qatar on issues relating to workers' conditions in the country, our Embassy also participates in various social dialogue conferences in Doha. ..................................................... I find it very difficult to see how dialogue conferences will help those migrant workers who die in Qatar or who have not been paid for up to a year. Perhaps the conferences can play a positive role in certain issues, if you are very specific. For example, it concerns the rights of LGBT people and the right to engage in trade unionism. That is why I ask the Minister: how does Sweden raise these very issues in its dialogue with Qatar? The Minister also says that we cannot assess what the situation will be in 2018 and 2022 in these countries. I'm saying that's wrong. It is perfectly possible to assess this to a large extent. Qatar and Russia will in all likelihood retain their repressive laws against LGBT people in 2018 and 2022. There's nothing else to suggest. The Swedish Government must nevertheless have a plan for how to act and raise its voice on these issues.
i-1355c2314d348b14-664	Madam President, I would like I thank Mathias Sundin for her speech. First to the social dialogue. We have chosen a direction where we do not primarily use boycotts and sanctions against sporting events. It has to do with our view of the sports movement. The sports movement should be free from political influence. It shall be a forum where different types of athletes and athletes will be able to meet for a time to compete and play together, regardless of the regimes of their home countries. It is a tradition that goes far back and also applies to the Olympic Games. We have chosen a strategy to be able to keep a focus on the important issues of human rights. Not least, this government has fought for these issues, and then social dialogue is very important. These are now being implemented, and the hub is the newly opened Swedish Embassy in Doha. Among other things, it is about participating in conferences and having a good dialogue with the Association of Building Workers, which has been deeply involved in these issues, not least through its international community. It is also about when we receive Swedish delegations, such as business delegations or others, pressing hard on social responsibility and the importance of raising this in contact with representatives of Qatar's government and other organisations and actors within Qatar. This may seem inadequate, and I am the first to be willing to sign on to this. But the alternative of doing nothing is worse. Lifting the issues in this type of forum and constantly showing the Swedish commitment can be the drop that eventually erodes the stone. I am quite willing to discuss the matter. Discussions are also taking place at the Ministry and within the Government on the other ways in which we can help raise the issue of human rights and in what ways we can use this type of international sporting event to bring to light various types of abuse or oppression taking place in different countries. In this way, without boycotts and sanctions, a situation can be turned into strengthening human rights and contributing to better living conditions, both for individuals and for groups at large. We have a number of years. There is every reason to use that time wisely to discuss – as we are doing in this House today and also in a more structured form – the ways in which we can raise these issues and use this type of sporting event to bring to light the abuses that prevail.
i-1355c2314d348b14-672	Madam President, I would like Of course, the alternative is not to do nothing, but to do more. Above all, in this situation we should raise our voice and be concrete in the dialogues mediated. I'm not asking the government or Gabriel Wikström to fix these problems. But we can do our part. I think that Mrs Wallström showed earlier this year what it can mean if you mark very hard, as she did to Saudi Arabia. It created a situation that attracted international attention. Now it was something else, but it is also possible to do so on these issues. A minister and a government really have the opportunity to demonstrate this. But it is not done with this kind of rather tame response, but it requires that we take it in and show that this is absolutely not acceptable. I can agree with the fact that sport should be free from politics. But this is not about interfering in sport, but how these countries violate the human rights of LGBT people, workers and journalists. This is where we have to roar. We can also make very specific demands in the dialogue being conducted. However, if the dialogue is to have any effect, it must be heard outside the meeting rooms down in Doha.
i-1355c2314d348b14-675	Madam President, I would like I totally agree with Mathias Sundin. I am very pleased that he is referring precisely to the foreign policy pursued by this government and to Mrs Wallström's actions in various contexts over the past year. That if anything shows that we do not shy away from raising our voice when needed. We do not shy away from pointing out abuses and showing that another world is possible. But we choose how this is to be done, and we do it very systematically. We are now discussing the issue of how to look at the World Cup in Qatar or in Russia and how to use these events to focus on human rights violations and what the international community can do to counter this. As we have done so far, it will be done systematically and in line with the other Swedish foreign policy. I have a close dialogue with the sports movement. The Swedish sports movement shares the government's position, not least on the importance of standing up for human rights. However, with regard to practical implementation in order to highlight the abuses that exist, to be able to point out alternatives and to get a broad consensus, not least internationally, on the importance of raising the issue of human rights also in international sporting events, we still need to work something more to get right. We cannot allow ourselves to end up in such a situation that a Swedish action or action by the Swedish sports movement is condemned in advance as some kind of activism that does not belong in sport, and then there is no discussion of human rights at all. We must do this in a very sophisticated way so that we also bring with us a number of nations that normally have a very long way to address violations of human rights in sports contexts or who normally do not dream of using sporting contexts to highlight these abuses. I am prepared to take up this challenge together with the Swedish sports movement. But I also look with confidence at the fact that we have a few years left before these events are to be held. This means that we have time to raise the issue in such a way that we contribute to a broad international consensus. We will do so in such a way as to strengthen both Sweden's position in the world and the Swedish sports movement.
