i-9925b9c31abbe656-2	Mr President, I would like to Jörgen Warborn has asked me if I will return to Parliament with a bill on the future of film policy. The current model of film agreements has meant a lack of political anchoring of film policy in Parliament. This has been criticised over the years by most opposition parties regardless of their political colour. That is also one of the reasons why I and the government have chosen to terminate the film agreement. It is my absolute conviction that film policy will benefit from its being subject to parliamentary scrutiny. The Government therefore intends to return to the Riksdag on the overall direction and governance of film policy. The way in which this is to be done is currently under consideration. When Parliament has previously taken a position on film policy, by 2012, it has been in the form of proposals. The reason is that there was then a need to amend the tax legislation because the parties to the film agreement had the right to deduct contributions to the Film Institute. As of 2017, the film agreement has been terminated, and the state intends to assume overall responsibility for national film policy. Since the draft constitutions relating to funding are dealt with in the budget bill and further draft constitutions related to film politics are missing, a new film policy can be dealt with by the Riksdag without it having to take a position on legislative proposals in a bill. An alternative could be a letter from the government. Regardless of form, the Riksdag will have the opportunity to discuss the future direction and governance of film policy. The transformation of film policy is a thorough work. In this context, I would like to reiterate that one of the reasons for the change is to increase the democratic anchoring of state action in the field of film. The Parliament's forthcoming consideration of film policy orientation and governance is an important part of this work.
i-9925b9c31abbe656-6	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for Culture and Democracy. The reason I have put the interpellation is that it has become very messy when it comes to the government's film policy and its management. My colleagues in the Committee on Culture are, of course, dealing with the issues relating to culture. I sit on the Committee on Economic Affairs and Economic Affairs and I think from a nutritional point of view. The film has some challenges right now. Perhaps I am thinking primarily of infringements of intellectual property rights. We will debate that a little later here today. Given that there are challenges, it is even more important that the government's management does not increase these challenges. This is exactly what we are seeing now, and it creates bad conditions for the industry and for all of us who like Swedish film. After the government terminated the film agreement, it was said that there would be a bill by the end of this year. After that, the Minister for Culture and Democracy has said that there would be no bill, but rather a letter. It may be that someone who follows the debate online or otherwise does not know the difference between proposal and letter. To make it easy, one can say that a bill is a proposal that the government makes and that is to be discussed, prepared and debated here in the Riksdag Chamber while a letter is just a letter where the government says to the Riksdag: This is what it will be like. So there is a big difference in the debate and a big difference in how it is prepared. So first there would be a bill. Then there would be a letter. Then I have asked a written question, and then the Minister has said that it is now being considered in what form it will be. It is a huge hateousness in the process, and it creates uncertainty. Of course, uncertainty is not good, especially for the film industry. In addition, it is the Minister for Culture and Democracy who should be responsible for this. I put a little extra pressure on the Minister for Democracy in this particular case. A Minister for Democracy should want to give clear and transparent answers. A Minister for Democracy should want to see proper handling here in Parliament. A Minister for Democracy should not want to see Parliament as a turning mark. A democracy minister should want a bill. I am pleased that the Minister has said, at the latest in Question Time on 15 October, that she wants a proposal. She said, "I really hope it will be a bill." ..................................................... Then it's simple, because that's exactly what we Moderates want. The only thing now required is leadership on the part of the Minister. She's the head of the department. She can decide in what form the matter should be dealt with in the Riksdag. She has said that she wants a political debate on film policy. Then my questions will be: Will there be a bill? When's it coming? If there's not a bill-- who's running over the Minister for Culture and Democracy?
i-9925b9c31abbe656-15	Good morning, Mr President. I would like to begin by agreeing with Jörgen Warborn's speech. The forms are important, but the content is even more important. The Minister for Culture opened the debate by saying that there was a lack of political support. But why continue with this lack of political support? After all, it was the Minister for Culture and Democracy who began with the lack of political support when she wrote a debate article in May and gave up the film agreement and surprised the whole industry and the whole political establishment. She made a terrible mess in this important area. The film is an important cultural exercise and an important cultural heritage. We have an important future with the film. But the Minister for Culture does not seem to take this seriously, judging by her expression in the face. Focus and governance are extremely important in this regard. The production of films is expensive, and it is important to have a long time perspective. Those who work with film today do not know what is going to happen after 2017 because the ministry spromemoria that the Culture Committee forced out of the department after the DN article does not contain any film policy. It contains a tax increase. Is that the only thing the Green Party has in mind – raising taxes and taxing the film and film lovers? Or what's the point? Today, film policy comes up in intervals, as the film agreement is constantly being renewed. Now the Minister for Culture and Democracy is going to nationalize film policy without thinking about the influence of the Riksdag. It is supposed to be a government policy. One might think that the government is a majority government. I do not think the government understands that they do not have a majority in the Swedish Parliament. It is extremely important that we not only have dialogue without transparency. That is the case in a democracy. There is transparency, listening to and embracing each other's views. It shall not be decrees and unilateral decisions. It will be exciting to see how the Minister for Culture and Democracy and the Government as a whole intends to shape the new film policy. As has been said, the Ministry letter lacks a great deal. For example, today we have the Swedish Film Institute that benefits and manages the film agreement. Now there's no film deal anymore. What will happen to the Swedish Film Institute? There's hardly a line about it. Should it be part of the Arts Council, or should something else happen to it? As far as funding is concerned, we know that there will be a tax increase, which will affect film lovers. But we do not know what funding should be like as a whole. There are many questions. I am pleased that Jörgen Warborn has raised the issue so that we can finally debate it in Parliament. I look forward to the continued debate.
i-9925b9c31abbe656-22	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Members of Parliament, for the contributions to the debate. For me as Minister of Culture and Democracy, it is crucial that all discussions are directed towards the Riksdag and anchored in the Riksdag. That is one of the main reasons why we terminated the film agreement. According to the old film agreement, which is now laid off, there were a few actors who governed Swedish film. This incredibly important cultural expression was governed by a few actors. The other players in the industry have been protesting and pointing this out for many years. But nothing has been done. It is a great pleasure for me to be the minister in that government who finally gets to cancel the old film agreement to do something new. What is essential is that the overall direction and governance of film policy is subject to parliamentary scrutiny. Member of Parliament Warborn tried to describe the difference between bill and letter. I am glad that I have my degree in political science in Swedish politics and administration. I would like to clarify and slightly correct the description that was given. It is clear from the parliamentary order that both the letter and the proposal are subject to compulsory preparation and processing. For both types, both a letter and a proposal, the matter shall be referred to the committee for consideration and the committee shall submit a report on the matter to the House. Members of Parliament Warborn therefore need not be concerned that Parliament will be left without influence. This is central. I am convinced that this debate and discussion will be important. I say this as Minister of Culture and Democracy in a government. But if, in an uncertain future, I may be in opposition after the next parliamentary elections, I also want to be able to debate Swedish film policy. Therefore, Parliament's treatment is important to me and to the government. With regard to the concern and discussion that has existed since the government terminated the film agreement, it is so with all the change that when you change something that many have unfortunately become accustomed to, especially when you change something where a few actors have had a lot of power, it gets messy. That has always been the case, and it will always be the case. I was looking forward to the discussion that we are in the middle of now. I also look forward to being the one who leads us out of that discussion. I will prove that there will be much more money for Swedish film. We've already seen that. Discussions are ongoing with TV4, and SVT has announced its funds to Swedish film. I also look forward to more actors having influence over Swedish film in a few years' time.
i-9925b9c31abbe656-30	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Minister for Culture and Democracy for the discussion. In this post I would like to discuss the conditions of the film industry. First of all, I reacted to the fact that the Minister for Culture and Democracy concluded by saying that there will be much more money for Swedish film. That's not really the picture I've got after talking to industry representatives. It is a discussion which I believe the Minister for Culture and Democracy has already taken and which she will certainly have to take even more of after that speech. The government itself terminated the film deal. It shall expire on 31 December 2016. Time's running out. The clock is ticking. Nothing seems to be clearer on the part of the government. Deadline is more likely to be pushed to the future. First, a bill would come at the end of the year. From what I have heard, the letter will come in February, if it is a letter, which is apparently under consideration. The Minister will be happy to comment on that. There'll be delays. And it's running out of time to consider what form it's going to take. The time until the agreement is no longer in force is now fast. This poses problems for the film industry. They have rather long processes. It is an exciting and complicated process to produce a film. Many professional competences contribute. It's screenwriters, directors, lighting sets, costumers, scripts and cinema staff. Contracts have to be signed. Intellectual property matters shall be resolved. And the funding will be handled. It's a very complex process. As long as there is no news from the government, it means that you do not know in which environment to create the film. There is always uncertainty when a new film project is to be launched. But right now the government is creating extra uncertainty. There is a risk that we will not get much Swedish film. I'm worried about that. Therefore, clear and good news from the government is welcome. A first step could be for the government to say: Let's back off. Let's do it again, and let's do it right. We are extending the film agreement, at least during the time that we will come to what the alternative is. Then peace and quiet are created for another period. Then the film industry can continue with its projects. Then we will have time to negotiate. Then we can sit down, several different parties, and discuss what the future should be like. But right now time is moving too fast. I would like to hear the Minister's comment on this. I have not yet received an answer as to whether or not there is a proposal. I may not be able to do that in this debate either. Nevertheless, I would like to ask what considerations the Minister makes when considering whether there should be a letter or a proposal. I said in my speech that I simplified a little what a process looks like and how a letter is made. The Minister has made that clear in a commendable way. But it makes it particularly exciting that the Minister wants to have a debate in this House. She wants politics to be debated in this House. She wants a bill. Then why can't she say it's going to be one?
i-9925b9c31abbe656-39	Mr President, I would like to As you can see, the Minister for Culture and Democracy does not give very many answers. She talks more about her degree in political science. Speaking is one thing; acting is another. Working with the democratic basic work in the Riksdag means that one can agree and that there will be a majority in the Swedish Parliament. The Minister for Culture and Democracy has certainly made little effort on this issue. And it's extremely serious. Instead of answering the questions, the Minister for Culture and Democracy says that something new should be done. Well, then tell us what the new one is! What is more than that the Minister for Culture and Democracy and the Government want to raise taxes and destroy the cooperation that exists? What to do about the cultural parts of cinema? How to improve the opportunities for children and young people to critically review images and films? We have not heard of a single proposal. But tell us, and we can get along! What about cooperation between the parties? It is extremely important that those pieces come into place before the bill is presented, when it becomes. And please answer Jörgen Warborn's question as to whether it will be a bill or a letter! When it comes to more money for film, it is one thing that the state spends less money while SVT, TV4 and other outsiders spend more money, but the Minister for Culture and Democracy cannot pull change. I think that's terrible. At what intervals should we discuss film politics? In the past, we have discussed film policy at least every six years and often at shorter intervals. Can the Minister for Culture and Democracy answer that?
i-9925b9c31abbe656-45	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the contributions! Something I expect the Moderates to know a lot about, because they have shown it throughout history, is how to create a good climate for entrepreneurship, how to open up, how to stimulate creativity, innovation and entrepreneurship. This is something that Members of Parliament often discuss, not least from a policy perspective. One of the objectives of the change in film policy is precisely this, to bring in more innovative actors to create the new. As a Member of Parliament Magnusson mentioned, they will also work to create the conditions for people to dare to invest and invest, where young producers join forces, form companies and make more film. This is what we are now creating the conditions for, and it will turn out in 5, 10 or 15 years that this was a good change for the Swedish film industry and for the many industries that operate within it. The crucial choice between proposal and letter is whether the government wants to propose changes in law. The proposal for a new film policy was sent out for consultation. We at the department have received a number of short, broad or comprehensive answers that we are currently discussing. It's an ongoing process. The outcome of this process will determine whether there will be a proposal or a letter. I will never stand in the Chamber of the Swedish Parliament and promise things that I cannot keep. That would be a big mistake for me. It is therefore important that I now emphasise that this is an ongoing process. We will see if it will involve any legislative proposals. Then it will be a bill, but probably it will not be so and then it can be a letter. Whatever form it takes, it is important for me and the government that the direction of film policy should become a subject for discussion in this House. It is incredibly important, not least from a democratic perspective.
i-9925b9c31abbe656-50	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for the kind words about Moderate policy in the field of business. This debate has revealed a few things. First of all, film policy is ill-managed by the government. The government has begun at the wrong end. The agreement is terminated without analysing the consequences of it, without seeing what options exist instead and without knowing how the process will be managed in the future. But time passes. Deadline is shifting on the future. The government is now considering how the process will proceed in the future. It is clear that there is gravel in the machinery of the government. Instead, the Moderates want to see an extended film deal in the meantime as a new film policy is carefully investigated. For us, it is important that 50 years of experience in collaboration is taken into account, even if it does not ultimately take the form of a new film agreement. The government's management of film policy raises many questions for the future. The film industry as a whole has expressed concern as well as criticism. We from the Moderates assume that there will be a bill. Otherwise, my colleagues in the Committee on Culture will have to look at what tools they have to ensure that the government does not round the Riksdag. Swedish film is amazing in many different ways. It is an important part of the creative industries. The film has a great value for jobs, for exports and for the image of Sweden abroad. Since Swedish film is so important, it is important that it is not careless by an unskillable handling from the government.
i-9925b9c31abbe656-56	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr Warborn! We absolutely knew that this process would get messy. I had never expected anything else, and it is important that it is messy. Many voices are to be heard so that you can debate and wrestle with the questions. It is no wonder that a system that has been applied for a long time and has not worked for many years is being replaced. I cannot quite understand the claim that the film industry wants a continued agreement. Then you haven't read the referral. A majority of the consultation bodies do not want a film agreement. They want a change, the change that we are now working on. Of course, there is great concern because you do not know what is to come, but you do not want it as it is. That is what the government has been listening to, and that is why we are now acting. We are not going to let anything go on just because we are afraid of a little mess, a fight and a knack along the way, but we dare to believe in the idea and vision that we have about film policy, about cultural policy and about this country. Finally, I would like to point out once again that one of the reasons for the transformation of Swedish film policy is to increase democratic anchoring, and it leaves this House. It is important that film policy is a subject for the cultural debate that I hope will become more alive in this country, because we need it. Parliament's forthcoming discussion of film policy orientation and governance is a central part of this work. Since proposals for funding film policy are included in the budget bill, the Riksdag can consider this proposal without having to consider legislative proposals in a bill.
i-9925b9c31abbe656-62	Mr President, I would like to Helena Bouveng has asked the Minister of Finance how she views the taxation of people's cultural practices, whether only certain forms of culture should be taxed and, if so, which culture should be tax-financed and which culture should be taxed more heavily. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. I would first like to say something about the proposed increase in VAT for cinema tickets. When the current low VAT rate on cinema tickets was introduced, it was justified by the fact that cinemas already paid a 10% cinema fee. This cinema fee was part of the film agreement between the State and certain actors in the film industry and will disappear when the film agreement expires. Then the reason for the lower VAT rate also falls. VAT is thus raised to the same level as for other forms of distribution of films, such as the DVD market and various digital viewing services such as streaming and pay-TV. The government's starting point is also that equal products should be taxed in the same way. The increase in VAT means that tax revenues are estimated to increase by SEK 240 million per year on a permanent basis. Without this increase, it would not be possible to finance film support at the same level as today. I'm not prepared to make savings in film support. The proposal to introduce free admission into some state museums is about as many as possible to experience that the museums are for them. Equal access to the common cultural heritage I see as a democratic right and entry fees are an obstacle for more people to experience state museums. In Sweden we have different VAT rates in the field of culture. For example, admission fees to museums financed by the general VAT-free, while sales of DVD films are taxed at 25% VAT. Of course, films and cinemas as well as museums are culture. It is not VAT rates that determine what is culture. I will continue to work for both a viable Swedish film production and that more people can visit state museums.
i-9925b9c31abbe656-69	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for Culture, Alice Bah Kuhnke, for her reply and, above all, for being in the Chamber and coming in for Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson. The intervention is about the design of the tax system, but I am sure that the Minister for Culture is also counting on the impact of the government's tax increases in the field of culture and the negative consequences they may have. The Government proposes in its budget proposal, following an agreement with the Left Party, to increase the funding to the state museum authorities by SEK 80 million from 2016 onwards in order to eliminate people's cost of admission tickets to certain state museums selected by the government, led by Minister of Culture Alice Bah Kuhnke. Both the Minister's and my own visits to these state museums are therefore funded by taxpayers. These state museums are predominantly located in Stockholm. I do not believe that Vetlanda museum is included in this exemption. Mr President, I would like to At the same time, the government chooses to more than triple the taxation of an entrance ticket to a Swedish cinema within the next few years. It is a VAT increase from 6% to 25%. Bio is a broad pleasure in Sweden. In 2014, the Swedes went to cinema 1.7 times on average. Although the Swedish Film Institute has reported that the average visitor has grown older, this is a common family island. Just watch the most viewed films in 2014. The hundred-year-old who stepped out of the window and disappeared peaks, but then Bamse and the thieving town, Sune in the mountains, Sune on a car holiday and Lasse-Maja-Majas detective agency. A cinema visit is a fun happening with the children and an educational and exciting cultural experience, just like going to the Museum of Natural History or one of the other 18 museums in Sweden's major cities. However, by almost quadrupling the VAT on a visit to the cinema and at the same time removing the entrance fee on a museum visit, the choice is made easy for families with children with a tight household budget. The choice also applies only to families with children in the big city. For families with children in Vetlanda, or for that matter Bor, there may be no cultural experience at all. In her reply, the Minister for Culture says that she defends people's democratic rights. So do I. But how will democracy become greater if taxes govern which culture is good or not good? Isn't cinema as nice as the National Museum of Natural History? Does the Minister of Culture think it is the parents who are best placed to decide what cultural experiences their children feel good about, or does the Minister of Culture see himself as the mother of all children in terms of cultural experiences?
i-9925b9c31abbe656-73	Mr President, I would like to Now we're getting to the heart of the matter. The Minister for Culture and Democracy said before that the government has ideas for future film policy. We have now come to the conclusion of what these ideas contain, namely a tax increase. The only thing we know for sure is that a tax increase should be the solution in the new film policy. As my colleague Helena Bouveng so creditably put it, this is headless. There are so many other options that you completely ignore. But it is quite natural for a socialist environmental party that tax increases are the most important. The Minister for Culture and Democracy has shown this. She talks in her reply about the 10% cinema fee paid by cinemas. It does not only apply to Swedish films. Even the new Bond film Spectre, which brings in lots of visitors, contributes to the funding of Swedish film. This is just stupid and expensive – it is the state that decides what to do! It's so typical socialist! But it is rather nice that this is clarified by the Minister for Culture and Democracy. I know other environmentalists who are not quite as socialist, but we can leave that behind, Mr President. The Minister for Culture and Democracy says that the VAT increase of 240 million will go to Swedish film. But it doesn't. Swedish film does not receive all the increased tax burden, but avoids giving the entire money this should include to Swedish film. And if this is the way Helena Bouveng suspects, that fewer people go to the movies, then there will be less tax money. What does the Minister of Culture and Democracy intend to do – or rather, what does the Minister of Finance intend to do? Withdraw support for Swedish film? Wait and see! Just hold the hat! The Minister for Culture and Democracy says she is not prepared to make savings in film support. But there is no increase either. The Minister for Culture and Democracy wrote in his debate article in May that Swedish film would receive increased support. But with the best eyesight, it is just as much on the part of the state, not more. You can't count other donors' money. Instead, why not look at other ways of obtaining funding, such as tax deductions or other alternatives used by other countries? No, in this socialist swamp there should only be tax increases! I find it appalling, Mr President, that tax increases are the only recipe for a very important industry and a very important cultural expression. I'm excited to hear the Minister of Culture's answer. We hope that we will get some answers in this speech as opposed to the others.
i-9925b9c31abbe656-78	Mr President, I would like to I thank the speakers for their contributions. There's a lot to answer. I will start with what I have said and what I have promised in a debate article and over and over again in interpellation responses and interviews. I have said that there will be more money for Swedish film and that there will be increased influence on the development of Swedish film. The two things I have repeated, and the two things have already begun to fall out. They will fall out in their entirety when we present our letter or proposal for consideration in Parliament. But my main priority as Minister of Culture is to create the best conditions for Swedish culture, so that it is made available to more and people can take part of it. This is shown in the budget that we have now presented, where we increase the funding of Swedish culture by as much as SEK 359 million. It is a small historical increase. It has been a very long time since the cultural budget was increased by such large funds. Our efforts will be made for the whole country. We invest SEK 100 million in the cultural school. The ability to practice playing piano or guitar, programming computer games or standing on stage should not depend on whether you have rich parents, but all children should have the best opportunities to take part in the cultural school. We invest in libraries, museums, school culture and more. Equal access to the common cultural heritage is a democratic right. That's also why we're doing the free entrance reform. It is true that most government museums that are government agencies are located in our big cities. In any case, they are now going to open their doors and taxes to more people. People and families should not be prevented by a cost threshold from sliding into a museum, but should be simpler. Experience from the free admission reform 2005 – 2006 was that the number of visitors also increased in museums with entrance fees and in museums around the country. I hope for the same positive effect again this time. I already have discussions with regions and municipalities on cultural policy and hope that it can be spread positively. Hopefully more museums can join around the country. One of the government's most important initiatives is the increased responsibility for film policy. Film policy has been governed for a long time by the film agreement. When the lower VAT rate on cinema tickets was introduced, it was justified, as I said earlier, by the fact that there was a 10% cinema fee. The cinema fee will now go away as the film contract is concluded. There is no longer an agreement on the cinema fee. Then the motive for the lower VAT rate also falls. The government's starting point is that equal products should be taxed in a similar way. That is exactly what is happening now. The cinemas will be taxed in the same way as other display windows. We are taking steps towards more uniform governance. The film industry is an industry in crisis. That is why change is needed. It is no longer possible to sit and wait for the industry to end, which has been happening for many years. We need to do something now.
i-9925b9c31abbe656-87	Mr President, I would like to The normal tax charge for VAT in Sweden is, as is well known, 25 percent. Generally in the tax system we tax things that we want to see more of such as concerts, circus, theatre, opera, ballet, magic shows, reviews, opera and musical performances with a lower tax rate, i.e. 6 percent. What we want to see a little less of tax is higher. Alcohol and tobacco are excellent examples. Taxes are in many ways a tool for controlling people's behaviour. Sweden is now the only country in Europe that, with this proposal, excludes cinemas from the cultural sector in terms of having a different rate of VAT for culture. In some countries, such as Denmark, the rate of VAT is equal. But countries such as Austria, Finland, Germany and the Netherlands, to name but a few, have a significantly lower VAT rate on culture, including the cinema visit. The Minister for Culture further says in her reply that she wants to equate VAT at the same level as for DVD films and other viewing services. But hello: Do we have a Minister of Culture who doesn't think it's one thing to watch streaming movies at home in the TV sofa and a completely different experience to go into a cinema with the popcorn basket and 3D glasses in your hand and share the experience with many others? The same should apply to theatre and musicals. Why should VAT be 6% on musicals and 25% on cinema visits? I know that Alice in Wonderland and Mamma Mia are both available on DVD. Or is it the case that the Minister for Culture has plans to increase the VAT levy there too? Bio is already a relatively expensive pleasure for an ordinary family with children. I don't think the cinema owners would take the whole VAT increase. That would mean a loss of earnings of around 28%, according to an investigation. The distributors' margins are already negative. There is still an increase in the ticket price. It is the Bamse-loving children's family that pays the bill. With such a sharp increase in the price of the cinema ticket, the visits will be fewer and not more, will they, Cecilia Magnusson? Mr President, I would like to I therefore wonder: does the Minister of Culture not want our families with children to be able to make more cinema visits instead of fewer? Does the Minister of Culture not worry that fewer cinema visits lead to lower profitability for producers, which means that only commercially safe films are on the cinema table? Should not all families with children afford to slide into a cinema and not just in state museums in the big city?
i-9925b9c31abbe656-93	Mr President, I would like to As the President hears, we are not getting any answers here. But we're not the ones who give up. We continue to ask the Minister of Culture. In my brief speech, I would like to comment on a few questions. I will begin with the proposal for free admission which the government now intends to present to the Swedish Parliament. Today we have as many visitors with entrances to the state museums as were ever when you had the obligation of free admission last time. Why can't the Minister for Culture look at the analysis that the Swedish Agency for Cultural Analysis did? It said that the free admission reform had no bearing on increasing visitor numbers. Who today attends state museums? Yes, it is older ladies from Östermalm and tourists who visit Sweden. Why on earth can't they be involved in financing? Today it is optional for museums to have free admission. Why should you force them to have this? It's better with quality than quantity. That quality goes before quantity I thought was a very good balance, but that is clearly not the case. As far as the biomems are concerned, I am delighted that the Minister for Culture and Democracy is now addressing more issues than cultural issues. We have asked during discussions: what about the other parts, funding, education and the issues of piracy? But the Minister of Culture has been pushing it away all along. It would be great if we got answers to those questions too.
i-9925b9c31abbe656-99	Mr President, I would like to I thank the speakers in the interpellation debate for their contributions. I would first like to comment on what was said about reading facts and figures and having the right basis. I believe that Member of Parliament Magnusson will read Myka's report, which came a few years ago a little further. They are not saying what the Member of Parliament says. They say that on the basis of the evidence they have, they cannot make such an assessment. There's a very big difference. The Swedish film industry is in crisis. Swedish film needs better conditions to be able to make the high-quality film that Swedish film has the potential to live up to. That is why change is needed. There are daily reports of the struggle for the film industry. I have weekly conversations with actors in the industry who do not survive in it and who finance the film they produce by working extra in stores and in home care. It's a hard fight to get to what we know the Swedish cinema audience wants and that you want to take your family by watching with maybe popcorn in your arms. I'm worried about that, and I'm worried that we haven't created the best conditions. It is not a good climate for entrepreneurship in the Swedish film industry. Therefore, MP Magnusson, many initiatives are needed. Believe me: There are discussions between many different ministers about what we should do more to stimulate the industry. I'm sure we'll astound you eventually, I hope. I would also like to comment on the increase in VAT. The 25% VAT will be a fact because we need funding. This is because we do not want to reduce the Swedish film industry. We believe that, now that we take a state responsibility for Swedish film policy, it will be better than what has been. It will create the conditions and open the way for more entrepreneurship, innovation and entrepreneurship. We are already seeing that SVT has made more money than it has done in the past, and there are ongoing negotiations with TV4. There will probably be a lot more money for the Swedish film industry. I am convinced that in a number of years' time we will be able to sum up that this led to this.
i-9925b9c31abbe656-106	Mr President, I would like to Alice Bah Kuhnke says in her answer: Of course, films and cinemas, as well as museums, culture. She goes on to say that it is not VAT rates that determine what is culture. It's nice to hear that our Minister of Culture says that, because it wouldn't even Wikipedia. But with the VAT tool, she points out with her whole hand what cultural experiences she believes Sweden's families with children should have. What she wants to see less of taxes she taxes high, and what she wants more of taxes she lowers. The Minister for Culture also says in her reply that she should work for a viable Swedish film production and talk about increased support for the film. I, like Cecilia Magnusson, cannot see that there is a single crown more to Swedish film, only more expensive cinema tickets. You are proposing to raise SEK 240 million in increased taxation and compensate the really small cinemas with SEK 25 million. Not even the Vetlanda cinema – it's a city with 24,668 inhabitants – will benefit from this. And the cinemas that are actually well-visited in places without state museums – they are often the only form of cultural scene, except for the local revue once a year – get rid of their contributions and remain with large VAT payments for each ticket and lower ticket revenue. Hand to heart, Alice Bah Kuhnke! Is the Minister of Culture really thinking right now? 80 million of the tax money goes to coffee latte-drinking culture lovers in Stockholm while the children's families' biggest cultural pleasure out there is taxed at SEK 240 million. Aren't the films about Bamse, Sune and Lasse-Maja-Majas Detective Bureau worth seeing by more children, not fewer?
i-9925b9c31abbe656-110	Mr President, I would like to Member of Parliament Bouveng! The old film agreement, which has not worked for many years and which the majority of the consultation bodies no longer want, has, at most, generated SEK 429 million. The government is now entering with SEK 435 million. In addition to doing this, we have opened up for other actors to come up with their money. There will be a lot more money for Swedish film. It will give us who are visitors a lot of good film to take part in, but it will also create business. Entrepreneurs and innovators will be able to make their ideas a reality. I am very proud of this change, and I look forward to seeing how it comes out. The proposed increase in the VAT rate for cinema tickets is crucial for the transition to take place and for the change that we have now entered into to become a reality. Without an increase, it is not possible to finance film support at the same level as today, which was the basis. Then there will be other actors with additional funds. The increase in VAT also means, as has been shown, that the taxation of cinema performances is treated as other forms of distribution. I want to create the best possible conditions for it to continue to be produced Swedish film. I also want to create the best possible conditions for people to be able to benefit from all the taxes, our common taxes, that are in our state museums and authorities. It should not be an obstacle that you do not have enough money in your pocket to be able to slide into Moderna and take part of all the amazing things that are there.
i-9925b9c31abbe656-114	Mr President, I would like to Jörgen Warborn has asked the Minister for Justice and Migration what concrete proposals to strengthen copyright that the government will present at the planned round table with those concerned in the area of copyright. The work within the government is so divided that it is I as Minister of Culture and Democracy who will respond to the interpellation. I've said it before. Copyright is important. We need to work together to strengthen the conditions for cultural and creative industries, promote legal alternatives and make it more difficult for those who make money from the illegal distribution of films, music or books. In this work, representatives of the sectors directly or indirectly affected by infringements are an important resource. We need to take advantage of each other's knowledge, networks and experiences in order to achieve the best possible results. That is why I and the government have chosen the round table as the format for an initial meeting. Presenting concrete proposals for action now would be to anticipate the discussion in a way that does not benefit the wider process.
i-9925b9c31abbe656-117	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer to the question. It is about copyright, but in fact we continue to discuss film in some sense. The big problem with copyright right now is, of course, in terms of film. Of course, it is within all creative industries, but my experience is that it is now the worst in the film field. The background is that piracy is a big and growing problem in Sweden. Mediavision presented a survey this spring. It shows that about 30 percent of Sweden's population consumes films or TV series via illegal sites every month. That's 30%, a third of the Swedes. There are 2.3 million people who consume illegally every month. These watch every month four to five movies. There will be a total consumption of 100 to 130 million films from illegal sources each year. If the government shares my view that this is a problem, we must do something about it. It is gratifying that something can be done about it. You can look at the other Nordic countries. We're by far the worst. Crime in Sweden is by far the highest. There are a number of different methods. In the other Nordic countries, several different steps have been taken and, in fact, the problem has been addressed, not completely but in a much better way than we have done here in Sweden. Some of the methods are the industry itself. But when it comes to others, the state is required to be involved – legislation is required. There are some methods that can be considered in Sweden. Should ISPs, following a court order, be able to block sites where this material is located? That's a suggestion. One might think of increased scales of penalties for copyright offences, perhaps primarily directed at those who do so in organised form. It is also possible to simply make it clear in the legislation that streaming is illegal – there is a lack of clarity today. Is the government prepared to look at some of the proposals? That is an initial question. The happy news is that if we do the right things it will be very good for Swedish film. According to this study, one in three illegal views could be converted into a paid display if the material is not available online. In total, this would mean SEK 800 million in legal revenues for Swedish film and for the film industry as a whole. If I understand it correctly, it was a round table last night, where this was to be discussed. Basically, I think it is good that the government has taken an initiative and that they talk to the industry. But I also think it is important for the government – that is what I am asking – to come up with something concrete at the table. As I said, the state and politics can do a few things, and the industry can do other things. In the discussion that we have here today, it would be desirable if we focused precisely on what the state and government can do. What the industry can do we can discuss on another occasion.
i-9925b9c31abbe656-125	Mr President, I would like to This is an issue that is extremely important. I was sad when I saw the Minister for Culture's answer. It is not a single concrete opportunity in terms of what can be done to curb crime and the predatory drive that is taking place mainly in Swedish films but also in other parts. Like property rights, copyright is extremely important in a democratic society, the Minister for Culture and Democracy. We need to protect that, and then you can't just talk, you have to act. We Moderates have put forward a series of proposals to improve and protect copyright. Jörgen Warborn indicated a number of these, such as stronger copyright legislation and higher penalties for those who violate copyright so that the police can investigate. It must be a priority crime that can be prosecuted. Another suggestion is that sites should be blocked after a court order. This is extremely important. It is also a question of imposing requirements on distributors to do what they are supposed to do and to encourage better services. None of this was in the answer of the Minister for Culture and Democracy to the question put by Jörgen Warborn. If we are to have a better film policy in this country, it is extremely important that we protect the authors and their works and not just let laissez-faire prevail. We can't let it go the way it is and hope it might go well. The Minister of Culture has stood here this morning, beating his chest over SEK 435 million. That's a lot of money. But twice as much goes into piracy, so if you want an improved film policy and improved conditions and a better business environment, as the Minister for Culture stood here and said, then we must stop this piracy and ensure that copyright is also protected by the government.
i-9925b9c31abbe656-129	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the contributions! This is probably not a point of order, but Member of Parliament Magnusson is rolling on, and I would like to remind you of what was the question that Jörgen Warborn was asking from the beginning. The question was which proposals would be presented at the planned round table with the people concerned in the area of copyright. That is the question on which I am thinking, above all, in my answer. It was a conversation we invited to, a conversation with a cool collection of actors who have not sat around the same table. This is interesting given that there has been another government for eight years that might have also managed to get these players around the table. Something that became very clear when you sat with these different actors from very many different parts of society, ranging from the Rights Alliance to Musiksverige to Telenor, Google, Comem, Telia Sonera, Klarna and so on, was that there was certainly a common view that it is important to have a strong copyright law that works. But there was also a shared view of blockage, for example. I believe that the most important thing I can do as Minister for Culture and Democracy is to get everyone to the table so that we can have a conversation and perhaps succeed in setting a common goal. In the round table, which was going on yesterday, I was very clear that my goal of the meeting, and if it is a continuation, is that I want to know that everyone who participates believes that we can find common ground to work for. It remains to be seen. A continuation of this meeting will follow next week. Then I will be able to come back to the Members of Parliament about what we are going to work against and what goals we are setting for this. With regard to concrete legislative measures, I would like to refer them to the Minister of Justice. The round table was about what we can do alongside legislation, which is very much. Both Members of Parliament highlighted what is actually happening in our neighbouring countries and around Europe. There is a long list of activities that hopefully can bring down the commercial illegal activities that are going on that are devastating to the industry. I know all the figures that have been highlighted here, and it is appalling how much money does not go to the creators, actors and producers, but is needed in the industry, by the actors, so that they can do more in the film in particular, although this also affects other areas where illegal activities are taking place. The conversation we had yesterday was a good one, and I think I can manage to keep all these players around the table. It will not be easy, because there are different interests, but I also heard a strong common interest that everyone's business and everyone's interests can be strengthened by finding common goals and working on them.
i-9925b9c31abbe656-138	Mr President, I would like to It is good that these talks have started, but I am very surprised that the government does not seem to have anything to bring to the table. The Minister says in his reply that it harms the process. I don't understand why. If the government has any ideas, why can't we say what ideas it has so that we can discuss them? We have made some suggestions regarding the political level. As I interpret the meeting yesterday, the Minister and the Government put the entire responsibility on the industry, where the industry itself will discuss solutions. I think many of those solutions are good, and I think that a lot of solutions will be required from the industry, but I do not think that politics can be left out of the equation. Policy action is also needed. The question that I originally put to the Minister for Justice has been put to the table by the Minister for Culture and Democracy, and I assume that the reason for that is that it is precisely the Minister for Justice who is responsible for the round tables. But the responsibility for intellectual property issues lies with the Minister of Justice, and I have asked him several questions about how to strengthen and protect copyright. However, I do not get very clear answers. It's a little evasive and a little passivity. I am pleased if the Government could put some force and pressure behind this and not only push the issue over to the other side but also see what we can do in politics. Calls are good. I'm sure coffee and buns are great. But what we are talking about is probably Sweden's most common crime, and then it takes some other buns. Then I think there is a need for some legislation. I have come up with some legislative proposals, and I would like to hear the Minister again comment on these proposals. What does the Minister think about introducing the criminal offence of gross copyright infringement? It would give the police and prosecutors other resources. It would also be a very clear signal from society about what is right and what is wrong. It is not right to download or stream illegally. It's weird with streaming. It's illegal for you and me to download a movie. But it is very unclear when it comes to streaming. Probably it's even legal to stream a movie. This should be corrected in the legislation. It is also a clear signal of what is right and what is wrong. What does the state think about this? I would like to hear a comment from the Government on this too. Then there's this thing about blocking sites. I believe, as the Government also says, that there is a discussion about it. I don't think ISPs are really happy to have to act as police officers. That's what I hear from them, and I don't think they should have to do that either. It should be a legally secure process where it is a court that tells the internet service provider that they have to shut down a site. It is quite unreasonable that we have sites with 100%, 99% or 98% illegal material, and so let it happen without having any suggestions as to what to do about it. I would like to see the government act here, and I would like comments on the three proposals. Finally, the Government speaks in terms of goals. It would also be very interesting to hear more about. What does the Government think we can reduce this piracy by next year and in 2017 and 2018? I would like to have one comment on that.
i-9925b9c31abbe656-148	Mr President, I would like to I am very committed to this issue, but it is a pity that the Minister for Culture and Democracy sees it as a cranking-up. It is an urgent fundamental question whether we should have a thriving film industry in this country where the creators can live off their works. It's not cranking up. I am anxious that we deal with the crime that is a pillage of millions of crowns every day from the whole industry. It is strange that the Minister for Culture and Democracy does not share my concern for this growing piracy the more fibre and networks are being expanded throughout the country. I hope that the government remains at the broadband strategy put forward by the Alliance Government at the table of Parliament during the last parliamentary term. Legislation is a basic platform for the prerequisites for film production in the country. That is why I put the question to the Minister for Culture and Democracy and not to the Minister for Justice. The whole government must be aware of what is needed to curb crime. Now the stakeholders sit around a table. I am a little surprised when the Minister for Culture and Democracy says that it was the first time these stakeholders met. In the past, it has sounded like the Minister for Culture and Democracy has met everyone in this area, but now it sounded different. I would like to receive some answers in the last speech by the Government.
i-9925b9c31abbe656-152	Mr President, I would like to I am convinced that we are all aware of and understand how illegal downloading and illegal activities are draining the industry. It's extremely serious. That's why something needs to be done, and that's why we had the conversation yesterday. In fact, there were players around the table yesterday who had not been invited by any previous government for talks on these issues. These are actors that we have identified as important in the process we are currently in. That's it. Members of Parliament also know that when we are in a process, I shall not stand here and anticipate that process. I will not say with determination things that I have ideas about but that I also feel that I have with me the actors that I want and need to bring with me into the work if we are to make a change. Legislation in all its glory, but what is legislation that no one follows? In the area of copyright in particular, there is good legislation, but it is not being complied with. It is important that we look at all the other measures that our neighbours and other countries in Europe are taking and have taken and that we can still learn a lot from, perhaps even refine and improve. I am also a little surprised that the call for legislation becomes the strongest argument. Why not do what we are now working on, that is to say see what voluntary initiatives actually exist? It emerged that several voluntary initiatives are taking place around the table yesterday, which several of the actors did not know where or had taken place in other countries where they have been engaged in business. There is a lot to do, and that is why I am hopeful about the coming meetings. I don't believe in passivity at all. It is a passivity on the issues that we have seen for many years. That is why we are doing this work now. Starting talks with the industry is one of the things we can do, further trying to find paths next to the legislation. There are also legal proceedings going on where we wait for them, and we'll see where they can lead us. Then there is the European Union and the Commission to deal with. It concerns the directives that they give and the processes that are going on there, which we know will obviously affect our country. I'm convinced that conversations are important. Of course, other buns are needed, but the other buns do not have to be legislative buns, but they may be entirely different cakes, such as seven kinds of Småland cookies, which we can put on the table. Perhaps they can help us set clear targets on how to stop the illegality that is destroying the industry.
i-9925b9c31abbe656-159	Mr President, I would like to I am concerned about some of the points made in these speeches. I feel that the Government is hiding behind the EU, court proceedings and voluntary efforts. There are those who say that the reason why nothing concrete is happening on the part of the government is that the Green Party has a different view of copyright. The Green Party believes that it should be legal to download copyrighted material for private use. It's not today. The Green Party wants to shift policy in the wrong direction from what we are talking about today. In view of this, I would like to give the Minister an opportunity to take a clear stand on copyright. It would be good if the Minister expressed the intention of the government not only to protect copyright but also to strengthen it. It is extremely important for the Swedish creative industry. I would also like to give the Minister another opportunity to answer the question of what concrete legislative proposals the government intends to put forward. I've made it easy for the government. I have made a number of proposals today. It would be good to relate to them in the first place. But I am open to all sorts of other suggestions as well. As I interpret the intervention of the Government, the Government excludes legislative proposals, that is to say, only voluntary efforts will solve this major problem. Is that so? That would be interesting to hear. It is unfortunate if we exclude the possibility of legislation from the outset. Finally, I would like to give the Minister the opportunity to also set a target for how much this piracy will reduce over the next few years. The Minister himself stated in a speech that she had a goal. Is it possible to quantify? How much has this piracy decreased next year, 2017 and 2018?
i-9925b9c31abbe656-164	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mr Warborn. Piracy should be reduced. That's my goal. But that goal I will work out with the actors who sat around my round table yesterday. That's why I'm going to have to come back to specific h from that target. I do not want to precede the good conversation I laid the foundation for yesterday, but I want to come back and hopefully impress with a clear goal. For the Green Party, it is important that actors in the creative and cultural industries are paid for their work. This is a prerequisite for an internationally successful Swedish industry. That is why copyright is extremely important to me, among other things. It is also important for me not to break laws. That is why legislation that is actually being enforced is also important. Then we must look at all the other factors that influence, such as values or knowledge of what is actually illegal and legal. Studies show that there is a lack of knowledge in large groups, who do not even know that they are committing illegal acts. One overall goal for me as Minister of Culture and Democracy is to make culture accessible to more people. Copyright plays an extremely important role there. The meeting we had yesterday was a first call. I hope for more interpellations where I will come back to how we, who have sat around the table, many of which for the first time, can ensure that we are doing a long-term and determined clear work to reduce the amount of illegality and this piracy.
