i-1702e0dc805a5372-0	Madam President, I would like Just a few weeks ago, tens of thousands of people gathered here in Stockholm to welcome refugees and to protest against the EU's external borders that reap lives. Prime Minister Löfven then said in his speech that we should never build walls to separate people from people. He said that his Europe receives people fleeing war, that his Europe does not build walls. These are powerful words that are binding at a time when the world is experiencing the worst refugee disaster since World War II. 60 million people are fleeing war, terror and distress. On the threshold of Europe, the bloody civil war in Syria continues. And in countries such as Iraq, Afghanistan and Eritrea, the situation is very serious. We all know that the vast majority are on the run internally or in neighbouring countries. But even in neighbouring countries, the situation is acute and serious. In Lebanon, as many as one in four people are refugees. Only a small proportion of the world's refugees go to Europe. But the number has increased over the past year and months. At the same time, there is a deep crack in the EU in its view of how to deal with the refugee crisis. We hear on a daily basis how individual EU countries restrict the right to asylum and affect the possibility for refugees to have a safe haven. It's very serious. The Left Party has requested the debate today so that the Government and the Riksdag can come up with concrete proposals for solutions to defend the right and the possibility of seeking asylum in the EU and in Sweden. Despite what Prime Minister Löfven said in his speech, it is precisely walls that keep the need for protection away from seeking protection in the EU and in Sweden. Right now, even more walls and fences with barbed wire are growing around the EU, and police and military with tear gas, water cannons and weapons are keeping people on the run. The Left Party hopes that in this debate we can discuss ways that respect the right of asylum and protect those who need it.
i-1702e0dc805a5372-7	Madam President, I would like We are witnessing the worst humanitarian crisis of our time. The war in Syria drives millions of people on the run. Men, women and children are squeezed between the terror bombings of Bashar Al-Asad by their own people on the one hand and the barbarism of Isil and Al-Qaida on the other. When I visited the refugee camps in Jordan and Lebanon last spring, I also met UN staff working in Syria. They said one thing you should know, and that's that the Syrians love their country. They would never leave their country unless they really had to. Syria was not a developing country. It was a dictatorship and is a dictatorship today. But economically and socially it was quite well developed. The people I met in the refugee camps had until recently lived their lives just like you and me. They woke up in the morning, sent their children to school, ran businesses, or worked as teachers, doctors, engineers, carpenters, painters, or perhaps metal workers. They looked forward to being able to continue their lives in their homeland with family and children around them, in safety. Now all that has been taken from them. Maybe their life mate or one of the kids is dead. Their home is devastated. Now they are in a refugee camp in the middle of the desert where it is 40 degrees Celsius, in one of UNHCR's metal sheds with concrete floors. They're alive. But what is their future? That's what these people are running away from. Sweden is one of the world's largest contributors to the UN agencies that keep these people alive in refugee camps. And we will increase our humanitarian aid. But it is an illusion to believe that aid can replace refugee reception. The needs are simply far too great. And how do you help on site when in place is broken? I am proud of what Sweden has done so far. From 2011 to 2015 we will have provided protection to over 100 000 Syrian refugees. That's 1% of our population. If the whole of Europe had done the same, we would have been able to provide protection for 5 million Syrian refugees in the same time. Then we would not have had refugee camps in Jordan, Turkey and Lebanon. But all countries must help. It is not enough for just some country to do so. That is why, since government entry, we have worked hard in the EU for a more even distribution. We had an alliance with Germany early on, then with Italy, France and Austria. We worked closely with the Commission and, step by step, we managed to create a majority for the idea that all countries must be able to accept refugees. The decision taken last Tuesday to distribute 120 000 refugees in solidarity in EU countries was thus an important success, for Sweden but also for Europe. Now we can demonstrate the political leadership needed in the crisis situation that we are in. It was an important step. But it was only a first step. In order to get European refugee policy in order, a permanent and binding redistribution is needed so that all countries share responsibility. We are now continuing to work for this. We are also continuing to work towards more legal paths to Europe. The 20 000 people that the EU committed itself to receiving from refugee camps this summer were a good start. But it has to increase. If there are no more legal opportunities, refugees are driven into the arms of ruthless smugglers of refugees and forced into rank boats on the Mediterranean. Resettlement, what is called quota refugee systems, is the white buses of our time. It is an opportunity to get safely to Europe and security. That is why we believe that Europe should have a resettlement programme for at least 100 000 people per year, which is thus distributed in solidarity among our countries. The refugee situation is a major pressure on Europe and on Sweden. In my next post, I will come back to what we are going to do in Sweden to achieve integration in the longer term. I'm just gonna say a few words about the situation right now. At the moment, about 1 000 asylum seekers come to Sweden per day. This is the highest number of asylum seekers in modern times. At the moment, a fantastic work is also being done by both government agencies, companies and private individuals to enable us to manage the task of feeding these people for the day and roofing their heads from the first day. The Migration Agency, municipalities and volunteers are now working very hard at all levels to be able to manage to provide a good reception and ultimately to save lives. We follow the day by day, actually hour by hour. Over the past few days, the situation has become even more strained with difficulties in finding accommodation. We are therefore taking a number of steps to find accommodation in a short time. It is above all a question of developing properties that the state currently has – for example, through the defence, the penal services and all the companies that we have – and where families that need housing can be located. This work is now being carried out with great urgency. I cannot emphasize enough my pride and gratitude to the Swedish Government and to all the Swedes who are working hard to help people on the run. There is a fundamental solidarity in the depths of the people that emerges in times like these. It is now decided what kind of country Sweden should be, a country that joins and throws people back into the war or a country that takes its humanitarian responsibility seriously. I know that there is strong support in this Parliament for humanism, solidarity and humanity. I hope it will last. We will continue to seek cooperation across the block border. Because that's what's needed now, collection. We have a difficult autumn ahead of us. I hope that in a few years' time, when we look back on this autumn, we will be able to say that it was a fall when we took our responsibility for cold, hungry and tired people fleeing war. We shall be able to say that it was a fall when Sweden and the Swedish people appeared from their best side.
i-1702e0dc805a5372-26	Madam President, I would like The refugee crisis affects all of us. What is now taking place in the Mediterranean is in many ways a human tragedy. I believe that everyone in this House wishes it had a simple answer to the challenges we are now facing, but basically there is no easy solution. The essence of this is that there is a particularly cruel war going on in Syria, forcing people to flee houses and homes. Of course, the most important thing in this situation is to put an end to the fighting in Syria. Sweden has taken a huge responsibility to help people in need. We have done so several times before. The closest thing we can compare with is the war in former Yugoslavia. But what we are seeing now is something else and much bigger. The flows of refugees that we then had for a limited period of time have now existed for several years. Very little also suggests that it will wear off. On the contrary, the war in Syria is described by authorities as a ten-year conflict. It is easy to be filled with the feeling that you want to let go of everything you have for your hands and help people in need. At the same time, we must remember something else. It's not enough just to open your heart. There is also a need for a migration and integration policy that actually works, not only for the time being, but which is also able to cope with the very tough situation we find ourselves in in the long term. Madam President, I would like Sweden can and will do a lot. However, with just under ten of the EU's more than 500 million people, we are almost a drop in the ocean in that respect. Sweden is at the absolute peak of the EU in terms of the number of people seeking asylum. Sweden receives more asylum seekers than significantly larger countries. Per capita Sweden is in its own class. I think it is unsustainable that it should look like this in the long term. Sweden cannot solve all the EU's challenges on its own. In a single week, 6,000 people arrived in Sweden. We have never experienced anything like this before. I want to make it clear that Swedish authorities are doing what they can, and they are doing a very good job on the basis of the conditions. Nevertheless, it is clear that we have major problems in our reception of people. It is really a lack of most things, and I note that the Migration Agency's processing times are now increasing again. And yet we have not looked at the longer-term challenges, namely integration. We know that, on average, it takes far too long for people who come here to get to work. Thresholds entering the labour market are too high. A lot of people never manage to stand on their own feet but get stuck in welfare and exclusion. It is a very bad start for people who come to a new country. Madam President, I would like Transparency strengthens our country. At the same time, it is not possible to wave away the concerns that many feel or ignore the problems and challenges that follow when many people come to Sweden in a very short time. Nor can we turn a blind eye to the fact that, in recent years, expenditure on migration has increased sharply and continues to increase. We must keep a sharp line against intolerance and racism. However, pointing out that we are facing major challenges is not intolerance. It's realism. The Moderates have presented a wide range of proposals to meet this situation. One of the most important proposals is that we need to increase our support in the neighbourhood. We have for some time been faced with reports that there is a lack of the most basic in the UN refugee camp in the region. It's about matransones that have been cut down and lack of other supplies. People have had to flee in desperation across the Mediterranean because there is not even food in the camps. We need to be much better at helping people in the neighbourhood. We also need a more permanent distribution mechanism within the EU. For example, there are 2 million Syrian refugees in Turkey. It is clear that consideration is given to how well Europe is equipped to meet such a challenge in the event of progress in this direction. The EU countries must act against the ruthless gangs behind the refugee tragedy that we are witnessing. Cooperation must be improved, not least by strengthening the EU's bodies for this cooperation, Frontex. There is also a need to tighten up the penalties for trafficking in human beings in Sweden. The Moderates have put forward proposals for savings to limit migration expenditure through more effective reception. The proposals are expected to lead to savings of SEK 9 billion by 2019. Some say that humanism and caution with tax revenue would in some way contradict one another. I have a different opinion. On the contrary, in these times it is more urgent to conserve our resources when the pressure on the migration system is high. Continued cost control and efficiency improvements will be necessary. People who come to Sweden should get to work quickly. This requires a strong line of work where incentives to look for a job and train are good. The Moderates have proposed temporary residence permits as part of it. At the same time, we have also presented tax incentives on the first job and a new form of employment that will facilitate entry into the labour market. Madam President, I would like With the right policies, Sweden and Europe can face the challenges we face. But it won't happen by itself. Here the Swedish government needs to show a much clearer leadership and a clear plan for the way forward.
i-1702e0dc805a5372-44	Madam President, I would like We all know the background to today's debate. It has been called the biggest refugee crisis in modern times, and that is true. Today, there are more people fleeing their homes than during World War II. 60 million people around the world are fleeing the homes in which they once lived safely. It is said that this is a challenge for Europe and for Sweden. But the fact is that the vast majority of people live on, either as internally displaced persons in their own country or in the immediate vicinity. To focus on reception in Sweden or in Europe is to ignore the large mass of people in need in the outside world. It is turning a blind eye to the real refugee crisis. A little earlier today, we from the Swedish Democrats had a press conference where we presented our vision, our efforts and what we want to do to seriously ensure that those in greatest need actually get protection. One basic idea of this – and what is important to remember – is that when you talk about asylum, you should also talk about what asylum is for. Why are there regulations in place today that require asylum to be applied on the spot in the country in which you are located? It is because the right to seek asylum and to receive protection was formulated according to the post-war situation with a diaspora of refugees scattered throughout Europe. The aim was that these refugees would not have to flee further. They would be guaranteed protection where they were. If it wasn't war and oppression where they were, they'd be protected. The policy that we hear the other parties talk about, the policy that has been pursued in Sweden and in Europe recently undermines the purpose of asylum. Every time someone chooses an insecure journey away from a safe area because it is perceived as unwelcome or in some way lacking and whenever we accept it, we undermine the right of asylum. Every time we accept that the asylum system is used as a means of migrating to a country for better conditions – yes, it is better conditions here than in refugee camps – and not to be guaranteed protection, then we are undermining the right of asylum. Every time the international community does not live up to guaranteeing security as soon as it is in an area where this security should exist, we are undermining the right to asylum. In the light of these fundamental principles, the Swedish Democrats have today stressed, among other things, that we no longer intend to accept this policy. Schengen has in principle already fallen in many ways within the EU. The Dublin Regulation is only applied where countries want to set borders while at the same time being happy to open their borders to channel refugees further. They no longer assume their responsibilities. In order to be able to deal with the current situation, Sweden must emphasise that we are not the first safe area. As long as there is no war in our neighbouring countries, asylum should not be granted in Sweden. We will therefore re-establish border controls and ensure that people crossing the bridge from Denmark have applied for asylum in Denmark or even earlier. Those arriving on the ferry from Poland or other European countries must have applied for asylum there. This frees up a fairly large resource space. Today, we are investing a great deal in the few who get here through illegal roads. This makes it possible for us to make huge investments in international emergency refugee aid. We heard earlier mention of the World Food Programme and that the UN can no longer feed refugees. We have already heard that it has been mentioned that the situation in refugee camps is so bad that people are fleeing from there. That is totally unacceptable. In our forthcoming draft budget, we in Sweden Democrats have spent 9 billion more than the government on emergency refugee aid. We will invest EUR 3 billion directly to the UNHCR for their work in refugee camps to ensure better conditions there. 3 billion we will give to the World Food Programme. It covers their entire emergency needs. This guarantees that no one else will starve because the international community does not assume its responsibilities. 1 billion goes to UNICEF, among other things to ensure that children on the run will continue to receive schooling. 1 billion goes to the World Bank to ensure that those countries that take the big responsibility by being neighbourhoods are helped to deal with this. We save 1 billion in order to be able to distribute to the local organisations operating in different ways in the immediate neighbourhood, ranging from churches that remain in the neighbourhood and home countries and can be local havens to other local organisations and heroes who make daily efforts where they are really vulnerable. It may sound hard to close certain limits. But what we are then doing is closing down the illegal roads that people choose to take over the legal paths that exist and which, of course, will be strengthened. In addition to the investments we make in the area, we also increase Sweden's quota from 1 900 resettled refugees to 4 000 a year.
i-1702e0dc805a5372-57	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking the Left Party for requesting a topical debate on the refugee crisis we have in our world today. It is precisely a crisis – a crisis for all those people who, at the moment we have gathered together in this House, are forced to flee because of war and oppression in their home countries. But it is also a crisis for the common morality of Europe. At each of our continent's kitchen tables, I guess we are now discussing pictures of families torn apart by barbed wire fences, children washed up on Turkish beaches and people hit by tear gas and violent border police. I cannot help but be amazed at the lack of history in our society. It would have been thought that a continent with such a bloody history, where wars have been absolved for centuries and where millions of people have been forced to flee, would show greater solidarity today. Last summer I spent my vacation reading Vilhelm Moberg's Emigrants from 1949. Although it takes place more than 150 years ago, there is much that I recognize from the situation we see in our world today. After years of misgrowth and starvation, Karl-Oskar-Oskar decides to leave little Sounds in Småland together with her pregnant wife Kristina and their three children to seek a better life in America. Finally, Karl-Karl-Oskars's brother, Kristina's uncle and his family and relatives accompany him on the journey. These 16 people are some of the first of the people who would leave Sweden in the coming decades. The large emigration started, which led to almost one in five Swedish being counted as resident in the United States at the turn of the century. Whole places were emptied of people. Schools and church benches were gaping empty. Drangs and maids left their services, religiously persecuted packed their bags, poor farmers sold their farms, food stored and farewell greetings were carried out, all to prepare for the great and often dangerous journey to America. As today, only one sea separated parents from giving their children a bright future. Then the sea was called the Atlantic Ocean. Now they're called the Mediterranean. Today no one is forced to leave Sweden. We have both peace and democracy. Instead, it is other countries that people are forced away from. The question I want to ask here today is: If a new book was written, who would be Karl-Oskar-Oskar and Kristina of our time? Maybe it's the people in the picture I'm showing. It spread around the world a few weeks ago and shows Laith Majid and Nada Adel from Iraq. The picture was taken when Laith finally reached solid ground with her wife and four children. The family had paid $6,500 for a two - hour boat trip from the Turkish resort of Bodrum to the Greek island of Kos. The little gum miboat had 12 people on board, even though it was only made for four. Somewhere along the way it also began to drain air and bring in water. Everyone who got off the Greek beach was soaked. After another four weeks, the family reached the final goal, namely Germany. New pictures of them show a completely different family. It is happy and safe people who can now start their new life. But Laith and Nada are far from alone. This year more than 320 000 people have made the same trip across the Mediterranean. Asad's abuse and Isil's brutality have been going on for so long that more and more people are giving up hope for peace. Moreover, the unrest in Lebanon and Turkey makes the future uncertain, and the food programmes in the refugee camps have been cut. A mother testifies to how she binds her children's stomachs with shawls so that they do not wake up at night from hunger. It is the reality that is driving more and more people to flee, and that is why we see that the figures are increasing so much here and now. This reality cannot be ignored by Europe. More needs to be done. And just as we in Sweden must not forget our history – we were a country in which no one saw its future – neither must the rest of Europe forget its. How is it that pimples form human rings to stop people from entering Finland when so many Finnish war children were received by Sweden during the Second World War? Why does Hungary face today's refugees with tear gas and violence when the 1956 Hungarians were welcomed in their neighbours? At a time when the need for solidarity is greatest, Sweden's voice is also most needed. I am therefore very proud that the government's line is that we need to create more legal ways into Europe. In order to take this opportunity to correct the previous speaker, I can say that there is, in principle, a lack of legal means of entering Europe and seeking asylum. The quota refugee areas that exist are far from sufficient. That is what opens up the extremely disgusting market that we have with refugee smugglers. That's what forces people to get into boats, like Laith and Nada had to do. Sweden is also increasing aid for emergency aid in the refugee camps. We are calling for quota refugees and more legal certainty in the asylum process. Sweden also participates in the international effort against ISIL and trains Iraqi forces. We contribute to the rescue efforts in the Mediterranean and give permanent residence permits to Syrians instead of allowing people to live in uncertainty forever. When people flee from the oppression of war, we welcome them here. I'm very proud of that.
i-1702e0dc805a5372-67	Madam President, I would like This debate is called for in response to the acute refugee crisis. There is indeed an acute refugee crisis at the moment. More people than ever make their way to Sweden and Europe. This crisis has also shown us clearly why people need to flee, what they are fleeing from and what happens when they cannot escape. Before the debate, I spoke to the spokesperson of the Center Party on migration issues, Johanna Jönsson. She was in Turkey last week and heard stories from people fleeing from war and oppression, but also people fleeing from hopelessness and imprisonment. It is easy to feel hopelessness yourself when you see the terrible pictures of a lifeless child in a waterbrush. It is difficult to hold back tears when a mother tells her that she cannot afford to risk her life to come to Europe so that her children can have a future. But those feelings must not stand in the way of our responsibility as politicians to make the situation better in every way we can. I'm not judging anyone who feels acquittal to this. But, Madam President, we must not give up. The UNHCR budget is running out. The food rations are cut down. The already terrible environment of the refugee camps is getting worse and worse. It's crowded, and it's poor. The UNHCR must be given more resources to deal with the most acute crisis in the immediate region. Everyone must be aware that life in a refugee camp is in no way a dance of roses, and it must be seen as a temporary solution. Unfortunately, the conflicts so about are burning in the places from which people are now forced to flee no signs of slowdown. People will have to settle in other countries. It is a fact that cannot be called into question. The situation also shows the great need to reform the reception of refugees in Europe. The Dublin Regulation creates a huge disproportion in the reception of refugees. Some countries receive huge amounts while others are completely outside. We must have a more even reception in Europe. The situation also points to the reception systems we have, the establishment we have, and how integration works in Sweden. It's about what happens when people come here. It is our absolute responsibility to ensure that they can quickly become part of society, find a place to live and enter the labour market. Madam President, I would like In the Center Party, we are in the habit of trying to do things thoroughly. We have since some year worked particularly intensively to identify the obstacles and challenges that exist regarding reception in Sweden. After working with this in a large number of municipalities, namely 50, it is not possible to land in anyone else but that the reception in Sweden does not work well enough. It happens too little, too late and too bad. We need to give municipalities the tools they need to be able to receive new residents better. We do this by compensating their costs better and providing the resources needed, but also by taking advantage of the skills and local anchoring that exist and giving the municipalities back their responsibility for establishment and reception in concrete terms. We need to strengthen the way into the labour market. We are doing this both with specific measures such as professional SFI, faster validation and more complementary training, but also with major reforms in the labour market, such as more flexible employment, broadening YA jobs and – also very important – by not increasing taxes on labour. I would like to emphasise that tax also refers to employers' contributions. We need to make sure that more people get housing faster and cheaper. This requires reforms of the housing market. Considerably more land needs to be built up, planning processes need to be made simpler and cheaper, and we need to allow simpler houses to be built. In the short term, quick solutions such as modular housing may also be needed. Today, 2015, we have an extreme situation in which very many people are forced to flee for their lives. Our laws, structures and institutions are not scalable enough for reception to be carefree, but what is the alternative? Madam President, I would like I, for my part, am not prepared to say, no, Sweden is full. It cannot be said that even when few want to move to our country. Given today's situation, when people are forced to flee death, danger and unimaginable cruelty, it is even less reasonable to claim that Sweden is full.
i-1702e0dc805a5372-79	Madam President, I would like Let's be honest. People who want to exercise their human right to seek asylum from war and persecution in the EU have very few and limited legal ways of doing so. It is not a natural law that it is so, even if it sounds so when you listen to Johan Forssell. It is the result of conscious political decisions that Sweden has been involved in, and such decisions can be changed. What we are talking about today can be illustrated quite well by this room. Let us say that this is the European Union. In this area, we say that we respect human rights and protect those who have suffered war, persecution, rape and torture. In here you should be able to apply for asylum. In here, a person should be able to breathe out, heal and begin his life. But the thing is that for the person in need of protection – for example, Maryam from Syria – there are no doors in this room. If she knocks on the door up here, it will not open unless she has a visa or if she is suspected of wanting asylum. Then the doors will remain closed. Only if Maryam manages to set foot on the carpet in here can she seek asylum. Only then can she invoke her human right. She could buy a train or plane ticket and get past the locked doors, but transporter responsibility and visa obligations to the EU make it impossible. But Maryam fears for her life, so she seeks other ways. Up here – on the border between Turkey and Greece – 1 800 border guards have been posted to prevent people from crossing. Over here – at the Spanish enclave of Ceuta and Melilla – razor blades have been put up on the fence to prevent people from climbing over. Over here – at the Hungarian border – families with children meet on the run from tear gas, water cannons and beatings. Madam President, I would like That's the reality we're talking about. This is what forces Maryam, and thousands of others, into the arms of refugee smugglers. It is this reality that makes us see dead children on the beaches, friends. Madam President, I would like There is much that needs to be done. As the Minister for Migration rightly pointed out, it is naive to think that aid and protection can be replaced with one another. Of course we have to have both. The Left Party has been pushing for a long time to create legal safe ways into Europe. We want to remove transporter responsibility, lift the Dublin regulation, remove the visa requirement for people from countries in war and conflict and eventually find ways to issue humanitarian visas. We have called for the EU to prioritise life-saving efforts over increased border surveillance. The EU agreed the other day to allocate 160 000 refugees to the Member States from Italy, Greece and Hungary. However, further steps towards joint and several acceptance in all Member States and more legal steps into the EU are delayed. Obviously, it is much easier to agree to make it harder for people to reach security in Europe than to agree to create opportunities for asylum. Madam President, I would like The situation is urgent, and something needs to be done immediately. We don't have time to wait. The Left Party therefore proposes three concrete things that Sweden alone can decide on without the EU's involvement. These are things that we could decide quickly and that would make a difference to people directly. Firstly, to extend the right to family reunification and the right to family immigration. If more families on the run can be reunited, more people will be spared the deadly flight across the Mediterranean. Let us remove the age limit of 18 for reunification so that families with children over 18 can also be reunited. Re-establish the so-called last link for old parents who are left alone in their home country, and ensure that unaccompanied minors have the opportunity to seek family reunification through legal representation. Secondly, increase the number of quota refugees. It is one of the few working legal pathways for refugees that currently exist. The Left Party is absolutely in favour of Sweden increasing its refugee quota, which currently stands at 1 900 people. Thirdly, the Dublin Regulation, which states that an asylum seeker should be tried in the first European country, does not work and violates the right of asylum. Already Sweden is not sending people back to Greece because reception conditions a there are disgusting. Let us take the next step to abolish the Dublin Regulation. Stop immediately sending asylum seekers back to ill-treatment and legal uncertainty in Hungary. I am pleased and proud that we now finally have a government that says so clearly that it wants to work for more legal ways to seek asylum. We know that several of the bourgeois petty parties say exactly the same thing. Here we now have a couple of concrete proposals that can make a difference, an opportunity to do something together. The question is whether the government is prepared to seize the opportunity to broaden some of the few legal paths that exist and take steps away from the wall building Löfven. What are we waiting for?
i-1702e0dc805a5372-91	Madam President, I would like I thank the Left Party, which has initiated this extraordinary debate. The flows of refugees we now see in the world are unprecedented in history. Nearly 60 million people are on the run, and the number is increasing. Although only a small part of these refugees come to Sweden, it is a great effort for our country. We have a tough situation today in Sweden in our municipalities. We have a housing shortage, and we have long waiting times in the reception system of the Migration Agency. I'm sure we'll make it through this. I am convinced that what is now happening with the large flows of refugees in the longer term will be of benefit to Sweden. However, the crisis we are seeing at the moment, this year, last year and the coming years, places great demands on Sweden and on the European Union. We must dare to admit that. Unfortunately, political leadership is lacking. The European Union is divided. The Member States are also divided. In Sweden, our Prime Minister is noticeably absent – or perhaps we should say unobtrusively absent. We see a great solidarity among a lot of people in Sweden today. Ordinary people now step forward and help in various ways to deal with an incredibly difficult humanitarian and social situation. We see people in our municipalities, municipal employees, middle managers, municipal managers, unit managers and ordinary people in social services and in education systems throughout our country who have in various ways activated crisis plans and are now trying to make the situation in Sweden work when there are more and more asylum seekers and more and more unaccompanied people. They are heroes; they stand up to make the situation work. From the government, however, we do not see this feverish activity at all. Several speakers here have talked about legal ways. But there is not a single quota refugee in this budget – not a single one! I stood at the Civic Square a few weeks ago, and I listened to Stefan Löfven. Besides, I actually thought he was serious about what he said, but it wasn't like that. There will be no more quota refugees. The EU as a whole will increase the quota, but not Sweden. Apparently, we're not going ahead. That's surprising. We on behalf of the People's Party have proposed a sharp increase in quota refugees. Nor do we see any strong proposals to increase housing construction in Sweden. Despite the fact that we have almost 10 000 people left in the reception system of the Migration Agency, there are no strong proposals on this. Similarly, we have many new arrivals who have to enter the labour market, and the RUT deduction is being reduced, raising taxes to hire young people and so on, which will not help this. Madam President, I would like This is extremely worrying, because it means that Sweden stands up very much and helps people to get here, but we make it much harder for people to be able to get into our society and root out here in the long term. That, of course, is a very big problem. Moreover, at the moment, EU cooperation is at a formal stage in which the Dublin Regulation is effectively out of action and where Schengen cooperation is in danger of meeting the same fate unless leadership is now established in the European Union that will enable us to deal with the situation better. The problem is that it is impossible to reach agreement on a policy that could really cope with the situation because several EU Member States are so restrictive in their basic approach. On the other hand, if decisions are taken by majority procedure, those who are opposed to this and who wish to close the borders will not care about the decisions. Then politics will have no legitimacy. The European Union is crippled. At best, we can agree on something that both Angela Merkel and Victor Orbán can support, and then we understand how watered down it will ultimately be. Madam President, I would like At the same time, there is very little evidence that the pressure on the European Union and Sweden will decrease in the future. More people will be forced to flee or immigrate to Europe. Then we can stand here and repeat: Help them in place! But people come to Europe. They come here in different ways. They knock on the door, and they are in our countries. Of course you can send them back to Aleppo and say: Help them in place! But it is difficult to implement this kind of expulsion decision, I can tell the Swedish Democrats. The war in Syria has driven more than 4 million people on the run out of the country. Some 8 million people have been forced to leave their homes within the country. This means that every other citizen of a country with 23 million inhabitants before the war – now about 22 1⁄2 million – has been forced to leave their homes. It is clear that this meltdown will eventually force greater international intervention or, in any case, a greater commitment to deal with the humanitarian meltdown that is going on. Finally, Madam President, I want – and I think we all want – to be able to look back at this time in the future and see that there were major challenges for Sweden and Europe, but we did it. We became more people in our countries. People who learned the language got a job and entered the labour market. That, of course, is what we must strive for. We do not want to look back on this and look back at a period in which the reception system broke down, where exclusion skyrocketed and there was racism.
i-1702e0dc805a5372-103	Madam President, I would like As many have said, millions of people are on the run today from wars and conflicts, but also from oppression. They can be refugees within their country, but also outside their country. In Syria, several millions of internally displaced persons have been involved. About 4 million are refugees outside Syria. Many times people live in hideous conditions in refugee camps. For those who have chosen to live somewhere themselves – they may rent into different apartments and at home – their own resources are exhausted because the crisis has been going on for so long. In Syria's neighbouring countries, the UN food programme now lacks money. The food rations were reportedly cut. It is mentioned that food rations have been halved in some places. That is why it was necessary for EU leaders to decide on Wednesday to give the UN World Food Programme about SEK 9 billion as a matter of urgency. What we now see in our world is something that we cannot turn a blind eye to. We need to have an open heart so that people who flee for their lives have a hope — a hope of being able to influence, build a future, and support their family. Sweden has had a strong tradition of receiving refugees. The openness that we now see around us among all those who stand up in voluntary organisations and churches and among individuals who take the time, the power and the means to help their neighbour is admirable. We now need States and municipalities as well as civil society and individuals to help each other. We Christian Democrats in Parliament and government have been pushing for a long time on issues of a generous refugee policy, where the rights of refugees and the right to family reunification have been highlighted. When refugees and asylum seekers come to our country, their application for a residence permit must be governed by legal certainty. It is very positive that the European Union now also mentions the interests of the children in the documents that we have received and that they should be taken into account in particular. We must not forget that over half of all refugees are children. I don't know if anyone read Aftonbladet's article yesterday... I think it was... about how children are used in the war. You hit kids. They torture children and use them as targets in the war to hit parents. This is done alongside all that we know is happening with women – rapes and other things. It is a terrible situation, where women and children may be particularly vulnerable in a way. For those who are granted a residence permit, we will quickly start integration so that they can enter working life and start their own life on their own basis. As more people have been interested in, we now have many challenges around housing and jobs. But there are also many opportunities with the people who come here and can contribute to our society. Many municipalities and county councils have already started to rapidly integrate people in, for example, the health and social care sector, where there is a shortage of labour. Madam President, I would like In order to return to the current refugee crisis, we Christian Democrats believe that the whole of the European Union must come together to deal with these flows of refugees, which are historic. Not since World War II have so many people been on the run. Sweden has 2% of the EU population but receives about 15% of all refugees within the EU. We do a lot of things, and we're gonna keep doing that. But more countries within the EU must contribute. The positive thing about Wednesday's summit of Heads of State or Government in the EU was that this is no longer just a matter for Sweden, Germany and Austria to resolve. Now it is an issue that is on the agenda of all the members of the European Union. In times of crisis, it is all for one and one for all who apply. We shall stay together within the European Union. That is what we are saying in the new Treaty of Lisbon, and then it cannot be the case that some leaders are doing cherry picking, so that you only choose what is good for your own country, but that membership means that you sometimes have to stand up together, especially in times of difficult challenges. No EU leader should be allowed to stick his head in the sand when the wind blows. Some statements by EU leaders on refugees wish they had not heard. But it has also led to other important EU leaders, such as Mrs Merkel, having said so. That's good, and it's necessary. We Christian Democrats find it regrettable that the government is not actively pursuing the issue of an EU system of humanitarian visas. We believe that if there were more legal ways into the European Union, it would put a stop to the smuggling of human beings. You should be able to apply for these visas at EU embassies. It would provide the opportunity to provide adequate information to refugees about what is waiting in different countries. Today, it is the refugee smugglers who have patents on information and information. I now expect clear signals from the government that the issue of humanitarian visas should be pursued clearly and actively within the EU. Then there are other issues such as the issue of quota refugees, where we obviously want to increase the proportion, and labour immigration, which the Alliance has made a reservation on several occasions in the EU Board. It's a legal path that we've been up to. I do not know if the Left Party thinks that labour immigration is a good way to have as an opportunity for a legal way in as well. I think so. We will ensure that you have good conditions when you come here, and it is an opportunity for people who are looking for a different future.
i-1702e0dc805a5372-116	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to say a few words about aid. I think it should be clear that Sweden is one of the countries that provides the most in aid and, above all, in humanitarian aid. We've been for decades. It's not something we came up with last week or the other year. In practice, we have been since we Social Democrats pushed through the 1% target in the 1960s. It was long before the Swedish Democrats came up with the idea that aid could be used as an excuse to hopefully avoid receiving refugees, because that is how they use it in the argumentation. Besides, it's completely false. In the last budget I saw that the Swedish Democrats laid down, you wanted to cut aid from 1% of GDP to 0.7% of GDP. What we are doing now is increasing the humanitarian effort in our last budget by almost half a billion. Paula Bieler says this – and I think this wording should be considered: every time we receive a refugee, we undermine the right of asylum. She'll be happy to develop that further, because it's a logical cobbler of rank. From what I understand from the Swedish Democrats, you are looking to close the borders. Those who come to our borders should not even have the opportunity to apply for asylum in Sweden. In that case, we are in breach of the Refugee Convention. It is a human right to seek asylum in the country to which you come. But what are you going to do with those who still come here and want to seek asylum? You're gonna shoot tear gas at them like Hungary? Is that what we can expect from the Swedish Democrats' refugee policy? We are now, as I said, in the midst of a rather strained situation. There are about 1 000 asylum seekers per day. We are dealing with this situation in the short term and in the medium term. Of course, we must also deal with it in the long term, that is to say, to involve all the efforts we need to make integration work better. Fredrik Malm asked about housing policy. We need to build a lot more housing. I am pleased to note that housing construction has actually increased. In the first half of 2015, nearly 30 per cent more residential buildings were started than in the first half of 2014. I could make some kind of point that it took a change of government to get it going, but so simply it is not, but it is probably connected with the low interest rates. But I believe that, now that we are going in with over 6 billion in a housing policy initiative, we will be able to lift the building of housing even further. And it is needed, because integration is about to get started, there must be housing. That is why the government has this policy on housing and, therefore, it is one of our top priorities. We shall share responsibility in the EU, but we must also share responsibility in Sweden. All municipalities must be prepared to receive. Right now, more than 10 000 people have a residence permit in Sweden but without a municipality placement. That is why we need legislation that makes it possible to oblige municipalities to receive. I welcome the People's Party's announcement that such a proposal will be supported. We will present such a proposal as soon as possible. I also call on the Moderates, the Center Party and the Christian Democrats to reconsider and also support the bill when it comes. Otherwise, you will end up in a situation where you say you want to force Poland to accept refugees but cannot imagine forcing Danderyd. It is an argument, a rhetoric, a position that you will not be able to sort out in the public debate. Johan Forssell, what if you could tell your party friends in Danderyd and Vellinge: Open your hearts! Then the situation would be much easier for us. Now I see that the Christian Democrats in SKL have backed this up, and I hope that this will give us even greater support for such legislation in Parliament when we present it.
i-1702e0dc805a5372-124	Madam President, I would like I think the Minister for Migration should not misunderstand me here. I think it is important for all municipalities to help, just as all the countries of the European Union should. My impression is that there is a strong feeling in most places in Sweden for us to do so. We are also now seeing how municipalities that are often accused in the debate of not taking responsibility actually do so. I note, for example, that Täby is not far from here increasing its reception this year from 30 to 106 people. However, we Moderates do not believe that coercion is the answer to these challenges. We have put forward other proposals for a more even reception. We want the state to take a greater share of the cost of facilitating the already strained situation of the municipalities. We have made proposals to extend the start-up allowance and to provide the state with resources for teaching new arrivals. I also think that one should remember another thing, and that is that although we have this kind of coercive legislation and get a few municipalities to take a few more at the margin, it is not at all responding to the major housing challenge that we have here. I wish the government could have spent a little more time on it rather than just this distribution discussion. I think it is empty on proposals from the government about what they want to do to increase housing construction. I think you can be clear about one thing, and that is that if there had been a shortage of subsidies or investment aid, if it had been what would have been at the heart of getting housing to be produced in this country, then all people in Sweden would have had a place of residence a long time ago. Obviously, this is the wrong way forward. I believe that many people expect Sweden to show leadership and that the Swedish government will do so. Now we are experiencing the biggest refugee disaster in a long time. I wonder what is the government's plan for this. I note that we have had a number of debates in this House. I have proposed, for example, that we introduce safe countries, and then we were told by representatives of the government parties that it was an unserious proposal. Then a couple of weeks passed, and then the government suddenly pushed that proposal. We have proposed more help in the immediate area, and it was even a person in the Swedish government who called it unseriously. It seems to be a bit of a favorite word in the government. Then a couple of weeks passed, and that was the government's attitude. Just get me wrong. I think it is good that the government and the Minister for Migration are listening to the opposition, but it is not very responsible, and it does not indicate any further leadership or that the government has a plan that does not just apply at the moment. I also lack information on how Sweden will meet the long-term challenges. What is the answer to how more of the people who come to our country will get their own jobs and livelihoods? Where are the reforms for that? We have proposed a wide range of things, such as temporary residence permits, to increase incentives to work. Safe countries have been mentioned, and we have said that Sweden needs to be prepared to carry out border controls. We have put forward proposals for first-job contracts and first-job deductions to lower the thresholds to the labour market and make it easier for more people to have their own livelihoods.
i-1702e0dc805a5372-133	When I read the budget that came the other day, I noted that it is no to most of it. A policy is being pursued which rather raises the thresholds. You reduce RUT and ROT. Proposals are being made for tax increases of SEK 40 billion. How does it make it easier for people who come to Sweden to get a job – their own livelihood? We are now talking about more people getting access to legal ways in. Most people in here agree on that. But the government said there should be more legal ways. Then I'm curious who the roads are. I also wonder whether it is the government's view that Sweden should introduce these roads in isolation and alone. I'd be happy to let the Minister of Migration sort that out.
i-1702e0dc805a5372-135	Madam President, I would like It is always exciting to listen to this kind of debate and hear the different perspectives that are highlighted. Quite often we are accused of being restricted, of just looking after ourselves and of wanting to lock us in. But when you listen to the debate here, it is clear that if there are any who only look at Sweden and Europe, it is the other parties. That's exactly what I said in my first post. I think I have almost heard more minutes of speaking time about how to solve the so-called integration in Sweden, about how we in Europe and in Sweden should meet the challenge. While it is fascinating and welcome that the problems and challenges facing recipient countries are finally recognised, it is not talking about the refugee crisis and the refugee disaster. I understand that the Minister for Migration has been busy today. He's had his own press conference, just like we've had. In the budget we are presenting this year, we are increasing the amount by 9 billion. In previous years, we have landed under the aid framework. For Category 7, we have landed under what the government is investing. We are still lowering the aid framework. We're raising from 0.7 to 0.75. So far, it has been estimated that the government makes settlements of approximately 8 billion on the reception of refugees in Sweden. We're just making settlements for the quota refugees we bring in. We'll reduce the settlements by 90%. We also make an extra addition. In addition to our general aid framework of 0.75 out of Bni, with the current situation, we are putting forward 4 billion extra. In total, we are landing this year for Category 7, International Aid, at 515 million over the government. This is how we react to information that the UN is no longer able to feed the refugees for whom it is responsible. Asylum should be provided to ensure protection and safety. If we are to allow ourselves to use asylum as a way for people to have better living conditions, there are very many on our planet – unfortunately – who are to be granted asylum. If we are also to apply a vision that it is only in Sweden that you can get a sensible asylum, that countries like Greece, Poland and Denmark should not do as safe countries, that countries in nearby areas should not do as safe countries if there are not crises there, there will be very many people who will be moved to Sweden. It would be interesting to hear the other parties' answers to how this is to be organised. The figures that are being spoken of at the moment, at most perhaps a few hundred thousand extra to Europe, are a drop in the sea in terms of the people who are in need of emergency protection and definitely in terms of the people who live under disgusting conditions. There are safe and legal ways. To claim that this is not the case is nothing more than to lie. There are absolute shortcomings in the system, and there are methods that can be developed. However, a prerequisite for safe roads is the closure of unsafe and illegal roads. We have to be hard on that.
i-1702e0dc805a5372-142	Madam President, I would like Although there is much to be grieved about in the debate and with the situation in our society, it is also worth highlighting all the positive things that are happening at the moment. I think that the Swedish people have shown very clearly in recent weeks what kind of society we want. We choose solidarity over hatred. Uppsala, Gothenburg, Lund, Kalmar, Skövde, Stockholm, Örebro, Karlstad, Borlänge and Malmö are places where Green Youth together with the other democratic youth associations have managed to gather several tens of thousands of people to say: Refugees – welcome! Another positive example that I want to take up today is from when I recently visited Gotland. Gotland will soon begin to receive its first asylum seekers after writing a letter of intent with the Migration Agency. Basically everyone I met there told me that not a day goes by without people calling and asking how they can help and what they can contribute to make things better. The whole island is committed to a good reception of its new inhabitants. The Employment Service prepares employers to stand ready. The reception unit seeks out internships and strengthens the SFI training. The municipality is looking for accommodation, and schools are preparing to receive all children in the best way. I am glad that Gotland is not unique. Every day we can read about how school classes collect money, how families open their homes, how sports teams welcome new teammates, how retired teachers organise Swedish education at asylum homes, how mosques offer sleeping places, how people work night volunteerly at our central stations and how churches collect clothes. Every time I hear about this, I think: It is my Sweden! I am also very pleased that the autumn budget presented recently strengthens the efforts and resources for civil society so that it will be a clear and clear part of the establishment. This includes Swedish education from day one, strengthening the sports movement and strengthening the project with refugee guides. But I am also very concerned about the proposals put forward by the Moderates, among others, who are at risk of establishment in Sweden. I am talking about temporary residence permits. We in the Social Security Committee were recently in Turkey. The Moderates were on that journey. I do not think anyone we met there made a different assessment than that it is a long-term conflict we see in Syria. The conflict will not end within a few years. It can last up to ten years. Why should the people who come here today from Syria not be welcomed here? Why do you make a different assessment than your former party leader Fredrik Reinfeldt, who clearly explained why the permanent residence permits have been the way for Sweden? They give people security, calmness and clear assurance that they can stay and build up their lives here. The Moderates who were in Turkey saw the women and children standing outside our embassy and our consulate waiting to be reunited with the relatives who had made their way to Sweden. Why shouldn't they come here? This will be the consequence when temporary rather than permanent residence permits are introduced. How does it strengthen the establishment of not being with your family? All the positive work being done right now in our country is incredibly important. And I am very proud that so many people are committed to welcoming our new neighbours, colleagues, friends and friends to Sweden. I very much hope that those parties on the right who are currently considering temporary residence permits will throw those proposals away in the trash basket and instead start to think about proposals that strengthen the establishment, not impair it.
i-1702e0dc805a5372-152	Madam President, I would like It is high time to move from debate to talk about how. I used my previous speech to talk about the need for constructive solutions. Unfortunately, it feels like there are far too few of them right now. There are limits to how far one goes in seeking to exploit people's fears and fears of the unknown, to cultivate prejudice and to spread hatred. Of course, in the short term you can achieve opinion success, and of course you can gain the power to if not create such a thing at least destroy, create mess and splash gravel in the machinery. This, in turn, gives rise to further mistrust and dissatisfaction, on which the irresponsible populist is not late to capitalize. As bad or perhaps even worse is the one who thinks that the public opinion train seems to be quite successful and wants to step on it even though one should very well understand what is that train's end station. But does the President know what? You can actually get an appreciation of public opinion even if you do exactly the opposite – when you roll up your sleeves, start working for real to make improvements and take responsibility. Let's start doing it! There are many words about transparency and how important it is to have a better reception. Some talk about the importance of less reception. But rarely do you answer the question how. How are we gonna get more jobs? How are we gonna get more housing? How are we going to make integration work? We do well to look inward and be self - critical. My own party has not had enough answers to those questions, at least not enough, and of course we still do not have all the answers. But this is not just an acute crisis but an issue that has become increasingly important over time. It is no longer good to wave away difficult issues by wanting to safeguard transparency and not to take responsibility, because it is our job to take responsibility. All of us taking part in this debate bear this responsibility. Then it is not good enough with flosskeler to help on the spot. In fact, it is not even good enough with the beautiful but rather empty words about everyone's equal value if you do not at the same time fill those words with some kind of concrete and constructive proposal on how we can better welcome people to Sweden and Europe. In the Center Party, we have worked intensively to develop solutions. We presented a report already last winter and have produced even more for our party meeting, which is actually going on now. Right now, the Falun Committee is discussing tone in SVT24! We have proposed, among other things, that responsibility for receiving should be transferred to the municipalities and that the municipalities should receive full cost recovery. We want to strengthen the professional SFI. We want to facilitate the construction of new homes with many different types of proposals. We want to reform the rules that create high thresholds into the labour market. We want to introduce mentoring support for civil society, mandatory social orientation during the asylum period and much more. This is a shared responsibility. We must all help to resolve the situation. There is a responsibility on all of us to be constructive, humble and honest about the problems and to be prepared to solve them.
i-1702e0dc805a5372-162	Madam President, I would like We are now in a situation that in many ways is unique. As the number of asylum seekers increases, we see another and partly completely new group: some of those who now come to Sweden do not apply for asylum here but want to go on. There has been quite a lack of clarity about who is responsible for refugees on transit while they are in Sweden. The efforts made so far by NGOs have been absolutely fantastic. I am incredibly proud and impressed by the commitment that exists. But to be honest, it is not sustainable in the long run to leave this to civil society. Volunteers have volunteered and spent days, evenings and nights cooking, handing out bedding, giving advice, playing with children, and arranging fundraising. But now it is necessary for the government to show what the responsibilities of operations for refugees on transit should be. In addition, the metropolitan municipalities of Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö need to provide accommodation for refugees on their way through Sweden. This is a matter for the whole of Sweden. It is a difficult situation that may be prolonged, and routes may change. It is really time for the government to step in and tell us how it sees that particular thing. Overall, there is a great deal we need to do to create a better reception and faster let those who have just arrived in our society. Pretending that we can stop being a part of the world is not really an option. If we go that way, chaos, desperation and insecurity will arise, just like what we see in SD's friends in Hungary. The rest of us intend to choose to meet the challenges with Sweden's best sides, well-organized and solidarity. We must ensure that all municipalities in the country receive, that society's resources and the power and commitment of volunteers are used in the best way, that you learn Swedish from day one, and that validation of education and professional experience is quickly complemented by what is missing in order to enter the labour market. All of this we will have the opportunity to debate several times in the future, Madam President, so I will return to the urgent issue we are facing today. The Dublin Regulation has never worked well. The premise that all people on the run must have their case tested in the first EU country in which they set foot is quite unreasonable. This presupposes that all Member States have equivalent reception systems and asylum assessments, and we know that they do not. In Greece, the asylum system has already collapsed, and Sweden does not send asylum seekers back there for examination. But it is clear to most people that Hungary should be exempted immediately because of its inhumane treatment of people on the run. When the number of applicants for asylum and are passing through Sweden recently has increased, the Swedish police have initially chosen not to register or detain those who are passing through. Italy has long done the same. When the police said yesterday that they should increase the control and record fingerprints and take into custody those who do not seek asylum but want to travel further, it raised some questions. How are we gonna do that? Where are you going to keep all these people in custody? As one Italian minister said, how many Eritrean thumbs should we break? I would like to hear the government's answer to this.
i-1702e0dc805a5372-174	Madam President, I would like As has been mentioned several times, we face a very special situation in Sweden. We have a very large number of asylum seekers who come here and want to stay. The message from the Liberals is clear: we stand up for a humane refugee policy. We believe it is important that Sweden and the European Union now stand up and help people who flee from war, oppression and misery. But we in Sweden must also be honest with ourselves. This places tremendous demands on our public apparatus, on our municipalities and on the Migration Agency. It also triggers political counter-forces, where xenophobia can increase in Sweden. If we are to do this in the long term, the people who come to Sweden and receive asylum and residence permits in Sweden must enter the labour market. Here is the fundamental criticism of the People's Party and the other alliance parties against the government that too little is being done to lower the thresholds so that people enter the labour market. Too little is being done to create new markets where people can enter the labour market through, for example, the RUT reform, the ROT deduction and other things that the government is now going in and deteriorating. Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, there are some positive things in the budget. There is a strengthening of the appropriations for unaccompanied refugee children and young people. That is a positive thing; of course we in the People's Party welcome that. An increase in the number of municipalities has been announced. It is also something that we support, although we do not really understand why the performance bonus is being removed. However, as far as I can see, no municipality, so to speak, is losing the new system and the increase that the government is presenting. That's a good thing. As the Minister for Migration mentioned, we in the People's Party believe that all municipalities in Sweden should play their part in setting up and receiving refugees. Madam President, I would like What ultimately becomes very concrete, after all, is the question of legal routes and quota refugees. I note that the Minister for Migration says nothing about it, the Left Party says nothing about it, the Green Party says nothing about it. In fact, there are no funds in the budget for Sweden to receive more quota refugees from UNHCR. It's the best way to create legal ways into the country. There are 4.1 million people crowded in refugee camps in Lebanon, Turkey, Iraqi Kurdistan, Jordan, Egypt and all around the world. The world is bigger than Syria. We have an enormous number of refugees, not least from Congo-Kinshasa, from the countries of the Horn of Africa and so on. The world's largest refugee camp is in Kenya. I listened to Stefan Löfven and was surprised. Stefan Löfven says that all countries in Europe will receive an increased number of quota refugees. There is also a sense in the budget that all countries in the EU should increase the reception of quota refugees. But there is no funding for it. This means that those who talk in the speaker's chair about legal ways, the government parties and the support party, do not have any coverage for it in the budget. Sweden is not prepared to receive more than 1 900 quota refugees while the total number of asylum seekers can exceed 100 000 this year. That, Madam President, is very regrettable. We are pushing Europe, says the government. Yes, but then you have to dare go ahead. There will only be empty talk if you are not prepared to be concrete in your budget as well.
i-1702e0dc805a5372-184	Madam President, I would like Yes, Morgan Johansson, I too have noted that the Christian Democrats in Sweden's Municipalities and County Council, SKL, have today said yes to all municipalities receiving refugees. They say that they want a temporary law with clear demands for countermeasures from the state. Ideally, the Christian Democrats would also like to have some exceptions in the Planning and Construction Act in order to be able to take rapid, active measures in the residential area. So it is not the party board but SKL that has made the decision. Madam President, I would like Greece and Italy have been carrying a heavy burden for a long time without sufficient commitment from the EU. Although we have sent some money to Greece and Italy, we have not been sufficiently involved in this matter. Now that they are receiving many who seek protection via the Mediterranean, it has created major problems. Greece and Italy cannot today, with the great flow that has come to these countries, be adequately able to enforce the Schengen Regulation. This means that their task of guarding the EU's external borders is not working at present. If external borders are not guarded, several countries will introduce national border guards, and the openness and free movement of the EU as a whole will take a step backwards. That would be very unfortunate. We Christian Democrats believe that we should have an open heart for those seeking protection in Europe, and the right of asylum should of course be held high, but we must also keep a cool head so that we do not lose the legitimacy of the common asylum system. We must find ways to deal with large flows of refugees without going into chaos as in Hungary. Although Hungary is supposed to protect the EU's external borders under the Schengen Regulation, the tone and way in which refugees are treated at the border are not worthy of the EU and do not correspond to the values that we want to stand up for jointly. What the EU Ministers of Justice decided on on Tuesday, during protests from some Member States, was a comprehensive document with a plan forward in which everyone in the EU is expected to participate and receive refugees. It was right and it was necessary. There is now a plan for better reception and more balanced burden-sharing within the EU. Nevertheless, there are still many questions about concrete implementation. Around 160 000 people are present in Greece and Italy and will be redistributed and given the opportunity to move on to other EU countries. According to the decision, Sweden will receive approximately 4 500 people. This is, of course, something that we can do because we can handle so many others. I don't see that as a big problem. The refugees themselves must state where they want to go and the reason for it, but their wishes cannot be guaranteed. The question is what it will result in when you do not want to go to the country you are assigned. Greece and Italy, where the boats land, cannot receive everyone themselves, we understand that. That is why we need to have a permanent mechanism in place to determine how the EU should distribute refugees who come to the EU's borders. The Dublin Regulation on seeking asylum in the first country, to which Paula Bieler refers all the time, is not working today for obvious reasons. We must therefore put in place a system in which Schengen works but also where people have the right to seek asylum. Moreover, we must have a redistribution and a balanced burden-sharing within the European Union. That is the only way to maintain the asylum system that we all support today.
i-1702e0dc805a5372-191	Madam President, I would like Initially, I would like to say that I did not get a really good answer from Paula Bieler on how to deal with those who come to Sweden and apply for asylum. They should not be allowed to seek asylum here, as I understand. They will be thrown back to Denmark. Then what? Are the Danes to throw them back to Germany and the Germans toss them back to Austria and the Austrians toss them back to Hungary and the Hungarians toss them back to Serbia and all the way to Syria? Is that what the Swedish Democrats' refugee policy looks like? In practice, yes. If all countries apply that principle, it is a question of throwing people back into a war zone. Of course, we are not surprised, because that will be the effect of the policy of the Swedish Democrats. We are, of course, taking a wide range of measures with regard to the whole of the second discussion, namely how we ensure that those who come to Sweden get a good reception and are integrated. We are taking a wide range of measures to that end. I mentioned the construction of housing, which is finally getting started. It's not a coincidence. It is an effect of interest rates, but it is also an effect of showing that we are prepared to invest in housing construction. We enter with another SEK 6 billion per year in the coming years. When it comes to a policy for all municipalities to take responsibility, I asked the question to Moderatens Johan Forssell. I asked you, are you prepared to do that? Obviously not. You think it's okay to force others, in different countries, to accept, but when it comes to your own party colleagues, you don't dare take that conflict. I'm sorry about that. It would have been good to get a connection to it. You have seen in our budget what we are entering into when it comes to early intervention, already during asylum housing, that is, to learn Swedish and social science early. I'm sure you've also noticed that we're spending money on the municipalities. 50% we are raising the standard for children's schooling for asylum seekers but also for new arrivals. We are taking strong action to try to make it easier for those who come here.
i-1702e0dc805a5372-197	Madam President, I would like Yes, that's right, Magda Rasmusson. The Moderates have changed their minds on this matter. We've done it because reality changes. Someone may find it amazing that a party does not always have the main principle to stand on the same spot, never to move a millimetre, but I have no problem with it. I think it is quite important to be able to feel that humility and be prepared to change our policy when it is called for. The Green Party seems to have a slightly different input into this, to have more of the view that these are fine words that solve the challenges, if there are even any challenges; at least I could not hear any in the speech. It is rather a beautiful-weather policy. There's no problem. I have a different opinion. I believe that today's migration and integration policy is not working well enough. We see costs running. Over the next four years, we are talking about EUR 16 billion in migration and integration. We see an alienation growing. We see the great lack of jobs. If it were the case that the policy we have pursued really worked, such as permanent residence permits, then the question is why we see the problems that we are now seeing. Perhaps the explanation for the government's inaction on these issues is that the Green Party is in the government. I got a pass from the immigration minister about my party friends. I can do the same. Let's take the housing situation. It's not just about subsidies. It's something the housing industry doesn't even want. They say they're useless. Around the metropolitan regions, local politicians from the Social Democrats and the Green Party are stopping new ground instructions. It's not supposed to be built. I think the Minister for Migration is going to have to do a little more work on that. I think we have a new situation. Then a new policy will have to be devised. We Moderates have done so on a number of important points. It is no more of a beautiful-weather policy that will solve the challenges we are now facing.
i-1702e0dc805a5372-203	Madam President, I would like Yes, perhaps it is the case that those who have chosen illegal and unsafe routes to get to a country almost on the other side of the world will gradually get back to what was their neighbourhood, where we guarantee the protection they should have been guaranteed from the outset. And yes, it is true that the current system is falling. The Dublin regulation does not work as it is, but it does exist, and at present we need to invoke it in order to deal with the current situation, to show that it is the legal roads that are to be followed and to free up resources so that we can invest in emergency protection for the most needy. But this does not mean that we think it is good as it is, that the current system works and should be sustainable in the long term, or that we should continue to channel refugees from one state to another when more and more people close their borders, because it is completely impossible to deal with the situation that is. We are fully aware of that. That is why today we have set up a working group to properly review the functioning of a modern effective refugee and asylum system with international responsibilities. It should not be written for the situation after World War II, where refugees were scattered around the world, but to deal with acute crises where people are suddenly forced to flee. The starting point shall be that it shall be an international responsibility to establish safe havens. It is to be carried out internationally and jointly, and to guarantee the civil rights that have been violated for those who have been forced to flee their country of origin. The problem now arises because the right of asylum places that responsibility on the individual country that becomes the host country or the host country. It is too much of a burden when people flee in these large numbers. We are fully aware of the systemic collapse, and we are also working to change this in the long term, but today we need to take urgent action.
i-1702e0dc805a5372-208	Madam President, I would like I have no problem at all with seeing that other parties can also come up with good solutions. For example, I have read the Moderates' report on migration and integration policy. I think there are several good ideas there, such as investment in better language education, collaboration with civil society and so on. What I wonder is how the establishment will be improved by people becoming more insecure. I wonder what has happened since Fredrik Reinfeldt said that about why the permanent residence permits are so important that you make a different assessment today. Do you have any experts who, for example, back up the claim that the conflict in Syria would end in the near future? Why else should the Finnish Immigration Service make a new assessment in a few years' time and check if you now need to be entitled to permanent residence permits? We already have problems with increased processing times. Above all, I wonder at the moment about the people waiting outside our consulates and embassies in Turkey, for example, where 20 000 applications for family reunification are expected this year. Why should they, wives and children, as it often is, not be allowed to come to Sweden, and how does it make the establishment better when those who are here in Sweden have to worry about their relatives? I hope that the Moderates choose to maintain that we will show people that they are welcome in this country and not try in different ways to reduce immigration and conduct signal politics, which I do not think will work. If you think temporary residence permits would be a miracle cure for getting jobs, you can look at how things have gone in several of our European neighbours. It uses these systems, but people still don't get jobs. What I think we need more of is better Swedish education. There, the government is also investing in previous efforts. We need to ensure that Arbetsförmedlingen gets the tools needed to get more people into work and, for example, develop work with fast track, which the government works for. A lot of action is under way. I hope that the bourgeois parties do not turn around in this matter.
i-1702e0dc805a5372-213	Madam President, I would like I would like to come back to what I started my previous speech with, namely to call for greater concreteness. We have actually seen traces of concreteness in this debate, and that is very positi vt. I will commend my colleagues, and if necessary opponents, for this. I think it is great that the People's Party is raising the issue of quota refugees. It's an important way to get people here legally. It is great that the Christian Democrats mention the possibility of seeking asylum at EU embassies. One can imagine several variations with humanitarian visas and so on. The Green Party gives a beautiful and in many pieces relevant picture of the state of things, but I think it will have to turn a little on the concreteness there too. The big parties, the Social Democrats and the Moderates, say well and do in a way that possibly makes an old center party jealous. What we agree on in all these parties is that we have left the question of and moved on to the question of how. We can get much better, but let's stay there. Let's talk about how. It is no news that the Swedish Democrats want to keep people away from Sweden with the means needed, whether it should be barbed wire or tear gas. There's no point in getting excited about it. We know that. That's not news. So let the rest of us talk about how, about how we can get better at welcoming people to Sweden in a good way. Speaking of some attempts at concreteness in this debate, I would like to say that I have not met a single municipal politician who does not want more citizens for his municipality. But there are obviously practical obstacles. We must ensure that municipalities are given the tools they need to welcome people. I do not believe in coercion for those municipalities which today, perhaps for legitimate reasons, cannot do this. I believe in carrots rather than whips in this case. Once again, we want to give the municipalities responsibility for their establishment, and we want to give them the tools they need for it.
i-1702e0dc805a5372-219	Madam President, I would like Sweden is teeming with people who want to make a difference. They are language cafés, asylum committees and community groups that organise people locally for community and security. A couple of weeks ago all these forces gathered together in a movement that became a single voice. The image of a lifeless child on a beach became the trigger. It was not just because we recognize ourselves and our children when we see the soft arms that should build sand castles or the little shoes that should run. No, Madam President, when so many of us gather to greet the refugees' welcome, it is also a recognition of ourselves and what Sweden consists of. It is a protest against the false impression that refugees are something foreign and new. Our common voice is a blow to the lie that there are different kinds of people, one, and one, and it is high time to settle that lie. Refugee is a part of us and of Sweden's history. Maybe it's part of your great-grandmother's story about the trip here with the white buses. Maybe it's part of your old man's escape from the Bosnia of genocide. Maybe it's about your own escape in your mother's arms from Chile or Iran. Maybe it's about your loved one, your friend, your workmate, your neighbor or your kids' classmates. I think this is what both the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats need to be reminded of. It is time to let this movement into this House too – the movement that is now welcoming people to our future. It contains real community, and it requires real action. I hope, Madam President, that the answer from this House will not fail.
i-1702e0dc805a5372-223	Madam President, I would like I have now put a very specific question in two speeches or, in any case, pointed out a very clear fact, namely that the government parties rightly and very well-lawfully stress the importance of legal pathways to Europe and stress the importance of more countries receiving quota refugees but then have not set aside funds in the budget proposal submitted to Parliament this week for a single extra quota refugee. It's absolutely fascinating. Here they have travelled around the country for a month – Magda, the Left Party and the Social Democrats – and arranged meetings and talked about legal paths and more quota refugees. The Prime Minister has been quoted in all major media. He has even gone to Brussels and said that everyone must help to receive more quota refugees. But the budget does not provide funds for one more. Now we have 4.1 million people who have fled Syria. It is women and children and the most vulnerable. I met some of them from Rojava from the Kurdish region of Syria in a refugee camp outside Duhok in Iraqi Kurdistan. They're vulnerable people. If we can help some of them actually get resettlement in Europe and in Sweden, that would be very good. We are now talking about perhaps over 100 000 people seeking asylum in Sweden this year. But among the quota refugees, that is, those who are most in need in the UN refugee camps and who get a legal path to our countries, Sweden is only receiving 1,900 this year. I'm surprised. The total speaking time is over half an hour for the government parties, and it has not yet been possible to comment on the fact that Sweden will not increase the number of quota refugees in the current situation. I find it distressing.
i-1702e0dc805a5372-228	Madam President, I would like I can only agree with the previous speaker. I have not received a really sensible answer from the government and the Government regarding legal ways in and alternatives for people to come here, alternatives to the boats. Then there is how to resolve the conflict. I think that we would all like, including those who come here, to solve the problem on the ground. And international engagement is needed to resolve the conflict in Syria. I would like to say that there is a heavy responsibility on countries such as Russia, which have blocked intervention in the UN Security Council. There is a heavy responsibility on countries that provide different sides in the conflict with weapons, countries such as China and Iran, which, alongside Russia, are considered to support the regime in Syria, and countries such as Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Turkey and other Sunni regimes supporting opposition groups. Western countries are also being withdrawn and involved. Somewhere a comprehensive solution has to be made. Maybe it can be done inside Syria. But the most logical thing would be for the UN to take an initiative and for the UN Secretary-General to say to these countries: What are you doing to stop this war now and not continue to support it? In Africa we have a huge number of countries where there is anxiety, violence and oppression. People are imprisoned, like Dawit Isaak, but also many others. How long is this gonna last? Today, the UN is gathering and talking about new Millennium Goals, Development Goals and Sustainable Goals, and these leaders are still continuing to imprison oppositionists, deposit billions in foreign accounts and pay for themselves at the expense of people and their own citizens. I would like all these leaders of the UN to be declared a persona non grata. They should not be allowed to join the community. Thank you for a good debate!
i-1702e0dc805a5372-234	Madam President, I would like First, there is the question of legal ways. Let me put the question to Fredrik Malm : How much did the bourgeois government increase the number of quota refugees over eight years? Barely anything at all. How did you manage to push for more legal roads in Europe when you were in government for eight years? Not at all. What have we done? We took the initiative a year ago and said: Europe must have a resettlement programme. Together with other countries, especially Germany, Austria, Italy and France, we achieved results in the spring. The EU created a resettlement programme of 20 000 direct from the refugee camps in Jordan, Turkey and Lebanon. That is what we have succeeded in our time. What did the bourgeois government do to bring about more legal paths? Nothing. Now that I hear the chest tones of some bourgeois parties, I have to say: it is a little late. We have already done far more in a year to achieve legal paths than you did in your eight years. We are the only country that is pushing the issue of more legal roads in Europe overall. We succeeded in the resettlement of 20 000. We are now saying that we are moving forward and want to try to make sure that it is extended to 100 000 per year. I believe that this will have an effect on the driving forces or the possibility of people thinking: I would rather stay a little longer in the refugee camp than take the dangerous path. This is what we are doing. As you know, we managed to crack a difficult nut on Tuesday, namely to ensure that all countries are now actually required to take some of the responsibility. There were people who thought that we would not succeed, but we did, and hopefully we will also succeed in that. Let's move on. I would like to thank you for a welcome debate that came at a very topical time for these questions. I hope to be able to work further well with the other parties in the Swedish Parliament to resolve this situation.
