i-3ac111c9dd98e612-0	Madam President, I would like Let me begin by saying that Sweden strongly condemns the abominable acts of terrorism in Paris. They were targeted at innocent citizens. It was a direct attack on democracy and our open societies. Sweden is now in solidarity with France, and we have announced that we are ready to give it support if requested. On Friday, an extraordinary Council of Home Affairs Ministers will be held to follow up the Counter-Terrorism Action Plan adopted in February of this year. Madam President, I would like Last week, an extraordinary informal meeting of the European Council took place in Malta, in the margins of the EU – Africa Summit on Migration. The purpose of the extraordinary meeting of the European Council was to follow up the discussions on migration which took place in the autumn. It was one in a series of extraordinary meetings that have taken place recently. It was a short meeting, and no written conclusions were adopted. The idea of the meeting was that everyone would get a common picture of how the various decisions that have been taken recently have been followed up. We discussed cooperation with other countries, notably Turkey, but also Jordan, Lebanon and the Western Balkans. Of course, we also discussed the situation in Syria. As I have said before, the EU as a whole must have a more active, stable and coherent common foreign policy in order to contribute to greater peace and security in the immediate region. Turkey is a key player. At the meeting, we received an update of Commissioner Timmermans, who, for the EU, has negotiated the action plan with Turkey. We also received an update from President Jean-Claude. The Commission intends to present proposals for EU funding to Turkey to address the refugee crisis. We agreed to hold a meeting between the EU and Turkey, at the highest level, in the near future. This is a good thing; we need to improve and deepen the dialogue with Turkey. It is important that our cooperation with Turkey at the same time is based on the usual accession process, which is based on clear demands on the part of the European Union. Of course, the European Union must stand up for its values in this cooperation. Madam President, I would like We also discussed the various measures the EU has taken to bring order to the reception of refugees. Amongst other things, the so-called hotspots in Italy and Greece are starting to work as intended and the relocation decisions taken by the migration ministers are beginning to be implemented. In this context, we discussed the resources that Member States must make available, and some countries – including Sweden – reported on contributions with experts to Frontex and the EU Asylum Agency Easo. We note that the redistribution from Greece and Italy to the other Member States has been far too slow, and here my message was once again that all Member States must shoulder their responsibilities and do everything they can to ensure that joint decisions actually become a reality. We cannot have a situation where a few countries take most of the responsibility. It is simply untenable. During the European Council, I also added in particular that this is not just about the issue of migration as such. It is important, but now it is ultimately a question of the future of Europe as an organisation – the strength of Europe and whether or not we are going to do it. This is a serious situation in many different ways. I informed you at the meeting about the strained situation in Sweden today. Sweden has taken a great deal of responsibility but is also under strong pressure. I also explained that Sweden has now submitted a request to be one of the countries from which asylum seekers are allocated. It is in line with the migration agreement between the government and four opposition parties. The request has been sent to the Commission and it will now examine the request and return to it. At the meeting in Malta, several countries expressed understanding of the Swedish situation. However, that is not enough. The situation requires us to take further steps. We must agree on a sustainable, permanent mechanism involving all Member States. The Dublin regulation is still in force and must, of course, be complied with, but at the same time we need to look at another regime that will apply in the long term. It is then a question of taking a holistic approach to the reception of refugees where the different parts are linked, such as reception, redistribution and return. It is very important that this work goes forward. Another issue discussed at the informal meeting was the protection of the EU's external borders. In December, the Commission will present proposals for improving EU cooperation in this area, so there were no concrete decisions to be taken at this particular meeting. However, it is clear that there is now a need for ever closer European cooperation. At the same time, I have on several occasions made it clear that border protection should primarily be a national responsibility. During the meeting, I also explained that the government has now decided to introduce border controls and ID controls on ferries. I stressed that the measures aim to keep track of the country's borders and order and order in the reception of refugees. This was the report of the European Council, Madam President.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-11	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his report on the informal meeting in Malta. Of course, I would also like to agree with the Prime Minister's words about the terrible disaster that took place on Friday. Somewhere it still feels good that democratic work continues in the same way as in this House. For that is what the perpetrators do not want to happen. With regard to the informal summit, I would really like to emphasise how important it is for what has been decided to be followed up. Sometimes you may feel that things are going a little slow. It is therefore important that we continue to push this forward with a redistribution mechanism, ensuring that there is a good return for those who do not have asylum grounds and so on. In the best of worlds, there had already been a well-functioning system, that is, something that was discussed and decided earlier this year. The problem of Syria and the flow of refugees is by no means new, nor is it new that the Dublin regulation is not working. Now, however, we are where we are, and we have to start a little bit from square one. That is why this was a very important meeting to follow up on what has been decided. As I said, you can get a little impatient when you hear what some countries say. The situation does not, of course, become any easier with regard to the joint reception of refugees following the events that have taken place in Paris. I would like the Prime Minister to develop the part about the important role Turkey has. The Prime Minister was in on it, but I wonder about the discussion on external borders and how we can get the reception of refugees in order. There is something that really needs to be put in place.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-15	Madam President, I would like As far as the first part is concerned, Marie Granlund, we must, of course, continue to push for redistribution. We need to have a mechanism that works. It is very unsatisfactory and annoying that we have not come any further than this, I can say. However, I can imagine, as I said earlier in my statement, that there is now a greater understanding in more Member States that if we in the European Union do not manage this as a whole, there is so much at stake. It is therefore important to find the best possible and most pragmatic start of such a redistribution. There are some countries that have said that they want to help Sweden in terms of redeployment, and let us now see in our discussion with the Commission whether such work can be started as soon as possible. As I said, the Commission is coming back again, but we are very much on this issue. We have good cooperation with some like-minded countries such as Germany, Austria, Holland and some others, and we intend to continue this work. We had a special little meeting about just that when we were in Valletta. As far as Turkey is concerned, it is obvious that it is a key player. Cooperation is needed in several areas. One is that the border with Turkey itself must work so that there is an orderly border crossing there. It is simply cooperation that needs to be improved. The second is what is happening inside Turkey. Turkey has previously withdrawn the possibility of a work permit, which has meant that refugees have seen that there is no future at all. This is the kind of issue that is now being raised with Turkey: what more opportunities do we have to cooperate so that people can also live in Turkey? We will also contribute financial resources there.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-21	Madam President, I would like It is difficult to find the words to describe our feelings after the terrible tragedy of Friday night and night. Our thoughts and our full support go to the victims, their relatives and to the French people, but also to Beirut and to Russia. Europe's response must be clear: terrorism must be combated. Effective measures and legislation are needed in all Member States, including Sweden. The work to stop the influx of combatants and financing for ISIL must take place now. We highlighted this in the run-up to the European Council, and we are highlighting it again. At the European Council itself, the main issue was the refugee crisis. Here Sweden has taken greater responsibility than many other European countries. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister: how did the discussion go and how did the Prime Minister argue in order to put in place the permanent redeployment mechanism so that more countries take greater responsibility? In the redistribution of 160 000 people that we have decided within the EU, only 149 have been redistributed. It's a lower grade. It's going way too slow. Furthermore, Turkey and its role in the refugee crisis were on the agenda. It is an important and complex issue that needs to be carefully analysed. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister how he brought Sweden's case in the European Council's discussions on supporting measures to Turkey and Turkey's accession process to the EU, in the light of the fact that Sweden is also driving Turkey's not to be seen as a safe country. I would also like to ask the Prime Minister about the Dublin Regulation. It was a little unclear, because after the meeting we were told that the Prime Minister has been the driving force in tearing up the Dublin Regulation together with Germany and Austria. But before the meeting I lived in the belief that Sweden stood up for the Dublin Regulation to be fulfilled and complied with and that it is important that other states respect and comply with the Dublin Regulation. I would therefore like the Prime Minister to say a little about the situation with the Dublin regulation and the arguments that the Prime Minister put forward.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-28	Madam President, I would like If I start with Paris and Europe's answers, I fully share that view. We are in complete agreement, and there is legislation under way where we now intend to implement it as soon as it ever goes according to the rules in force. As far as refugees and Sweden are concerned and the argument for redistribution is the same as I have preferred at the European Council, that this is about the question having to be resolved. Individual countries cannot do this separately. That is not possible; this is a task for the whole of Europe. If we in the European Union had initially taken on this challenge together, we would have had a completely different situation. There are countries that now say they do not want to take any responsibility. But if you do not, yes, then it affects the whole of Europe. We are in this together, and we have to clear it out together. That's the message. As far as Turkey is concerned, we have said that we are obviously in favour of this cooperation. We need it. Turkey is a key player, as I said. This means that we are prepared for financial resources for the work that will enable refugees to have decent conditions in Turkey. The Commission shall come back to how it is to be financed. For the Swedish part, we mean, and I have been clear about this on various occasions, that Turkey cannot be added to the list of safe countries. This is important. I have never said that the Dublin Regulation should only be demolished. I have said that the Dublin Regulation is in force, and it must be complied with. There are some departures, and a redistribution is to be made. However, we need something different in the long term, but that is quite different from just saying that the Dublin Regulation should be repealed. It is valid until something else is in place, and it would be wrong not to start thinking about the new now.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-35	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. I would like to agree with the importance of emphasising that the Dublin Regulation applies, and then it must also be complied with. It is important that countries now start to comply with the Dublin Regulation so that we have control over which people are within the borders of the Union. It is also important to meet the challenge of a very large number of people coming in a short time. It is not enough that only Sweden, Germany and Austria take the greatest responsibility, but more countries must also show greater responsibility and accept. I did not quite understand the answer to the question of the permanent redistribution mechanism, which would be the solution to this problem over a long period of time and in the longer term.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-38	Madam President, I would like I note that we agree with the Dublin Regulation. As far as the permanent redistributive mechanism is concerned, we must have one in place, in which all countries assume their responsibilities. The two redeployment decisions that have been taken during the year have been a success, but they have been temporary and have always provided that a permanent system must be put in place, and that is why Sweden, together with Germany, Austria and the Netherlands, is pushing this particular issue. A permanent system must be in place, but let us come back to exactly how it will be designed and who will decide on the actual distribution. Those who have been most opposed to this state their national self-determination as a basis for being against it. This must be a decision made by our country, they say. Then my answer has been that, on this basis, you have to deliver a proposal on how it would work so that we still have a permanent redistribution system in place. There we are in the discussion. So we have temporary decisions. We must move on to a permanent redistribution system, that is the job that is going on, and that is why the Commission has it that was worked.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-43	Madam President, I would like The mass immigration disaster and systemic collapse in Sweden and Europe are getting worse every day. In this situation, the government stands hands-on and watches as society crumbles more and more. Instead of doing something that works, the government decides to borrow billions to finance its multicultural dream. In the end, it is our children and grandchildren who have to pay for this expensive party, all in order for the project to reshape Sweden to unrecognizability to be completed. After much if and but the government finally decides to set up border controls. The problem, however, is that it is far too little, far too late and without sufficient resources. What is needed is an immediate closure of Sweden's border for more asylum seekers, not just random ID checks. The first safe country principle must simply come into force. There is hardly war in Denmark, in Germany or in any of the other countries that you pass to get all the way to Sweden. Just as the then king of 1809 stood far from the front and inspected brass buttons in the midst of burning wars, Stefan Löfven now sits in his ivory tower and denies the fact and refuses to act decisively. The EU has a post-meeting meeting, a wide range of extraordinary meetings and even more meetings with prime ministers, interior ministers and foreign Heads of State or Government. But there is absolutely nothing going on in concrete and practical terms. When the mass immigration disaster now manifests itself in a never-ending stream, action is needed today, not next year or the following year. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore: were there at the last European Council any Heads of State or Government who proposed concrete and resolute measures that could have a real impact but on which the Council could not for some reason reach a consensus?
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-51	Madam President, I would like I think there's a misunderstanding. This informal European Council would not take any decisions, but we would review the decisions that have already been taken and look at their implementation and what might need to be developed. Such a decision is about Turkey. This has to be seen in several dimensions. It is possible that for some there is a simple solution. But there is no simple solution to this problem. We have a major refugee problem in the world, the biggest since World War II. There is no easy solution. We can't snap our fingers and make it go away. We need to address this in the broad perspective that is to be taken on board. The first is the Syria crisis. Here we work purposefully. If we are to remove the root cause of people's flight, we need to deal with the Syria crisis. I am pleased that at least we have a political dialogue in progress. I am not naive and think it will be quick, but now there is a platform to tackle the political crisis in Syria. The second is, of course, the neighbourhood. That is why Turkey is important, and so is cooperation with Lebanon, Jordan and others. The third is the EU perspective. As I have said, this must be resolved within the European Union. Only the EU can solve it. That is why we are constantly making proposals. The fourth is how Sweden should do it in the best possible way. We have put forward a variety of proposals to deal with this. Let us remember that it is a moving target. The refugee crisis does not look the same year after year. We've had a dramatic change since the mid-year. We must see that and act from the outside. However, it is not correct to claim that the government has stood by and looked at. We have acted and we will continue to act because it is necessary. The refugee crisis does not just disappear by snapping your fingers.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-57	Madam President, I would like I asked the Prime Minister if any concrete proposals were made at the informal European Council. The Prime Minister did not mention any concrete proposals that could have an effect on Sweden today, not in one, two or three years. We see that the government is paralysed and not powerful. However, it is necessary to meet the Swedish Democrats. For example, it has been proposed to introduce temporary residence permits, which we have been advocating for three decades. Certainly the proposal contains a number of different exceptions, so it will be watered down. The government has also introduced border controls, as we have pointed out the need for a long time. The government sees the problems but does not come up with concrete measures. Jordan, Lebanon and Turkey are screaming for more money to accommodate more people in the neighbourhood. What is the government doing at this point? Well, you take money from the aid and you put on the asylum reception in Sweden. It is deeply irresponsible to act like that. I hope that the government and the Prime Minister will reconsider this issue and comply with the Dublin Regulation in practice as well.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-61	Madam President, I would like I'll take it again. What was most discussed during the informal European Council was Turkey. That is very concrete. It is about cooperation and an action plan. Discussions and negotiations are ongoing. We have agreed that we want to see an EU-Turkey Summit as soon as possible, which means already this year. It is that strategically important cooperation, and that is doing something on this issue. Whether Sweden receives 10 or 10 000 refugees per month, the Swedish Democrats think that there are too many. That will always be the case. You always have the same demagogy on this issue. Let me remind you that the Swedish Democrats have cut back on aid in their budget. In Sweden we already use the settlement rules that are accepted and decided by the OECD. Of course, there is now a discussion about how much can be done. As I said, the rules that exist are internationally accepted and decided, and we are following them. Sweden is a great humanitarian power, not least in terms of aid in this area. It is good to laugh at it, Pavel Gamov, but we get great recognition from international organisations, from other countries and from the countries in this area. When I talk to their Heads of Government, they thank them for the support that Sweden gives. We have nothing to be ashamed of in this regard. I am proud that we are making a great humanitarian effort, not only in this area but around the world. That's Sweden's identity. We believe in solidarity.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-66	Madam President, I would like The terrorism has spread from trespassing on people's everyday lives in Syria and Iraq to attacking people who perform their everyday activities in Lebanon to hitting holidaymakers on their way home to Russia to hit people who want to listen to music, watch football or have a good dinner in Paris. France's history is marked by major advances in culture, art, democracy and civil rights. This was strongly supported by France. Now it is our turn to help them to stand by these basic values. These are the ones we defend. I am pleased that everyone is making an effort to help France at this difficult time, because it is about preserving what they and others have created for us and the society in which we live. If you're strong, you have to be nice, they say. The reverse also applies. If you're nice, you have to be strong. But how strong are we when it comes to upholding EU law? Let's say we're going to distribute 160,000, but there's very little going on. After talking to the Member States, we call on the Commission to assume its responsibilities as guardian of the Treaty. The Dublin Regulation is not being complied with, the Procedural Directive is not being complied with and the Beneficiary Directive is not being complied with by a number of countries. Now is the time for the Commission to use the whip and not just the carrot at these meetings, so that countries actually comply with the legislation and solidarity on which cooperation in the Union is based. What is the Prime Minister's picture of Turkey? Can we have meaningful cooperation that has a good effect while upholding our principles and ideals? Another concern concerns the hotspots to be built up. Is there a plan and strategy to ensure that people do not end up in limboland for years?
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-72	Madam President, I would like I fully share the view of the need to help France and that we stand one for all, all for one. This is a very big common problem. With regard to the enforcement of legislation, this is and so with the implementation of the decisions taken during the year regarding the refugee situation. For that reason, however, we should not condemn large parts of the EU's work. In this particular complex of problems, there is much on the part of the Member States and their willingness to stand up for and follow the decisions we have taken together. They must say: Now we want to receive this many. It has been decided on this many, and we are prepared to receive them. Welcome to suggest something! However, this will has been small. In this case, therefore, I think it is better to target our disappointment on the Member States than on the Commission. The Commission is doing its thing, and there are, of course, limited means of putting action behind the words. For example, it is not possible to withhold funds. It is a little limited in that respect. As I said at the outset, we must work closely with Turkey while upholding our values. Although there is, of course, no guarantee, I see security in the fact that what Turkey would prefer is visa liberalisation and that new chapters should be opened in the accession negotiations. If it goes so well that it becomes so, you follow given structures. It's not just about getting something, it's about giving and taking. At least I feel a stability in that. We have ensured that sufficient resources are provided for hotspots, and now we are going through exactly what needs to be done. I fully share the view that this should have been done in the past, but the work is going on all the time, gradually. Lampedusa works as reported, but not the others.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-79	Madam President, I would like I share the Prime Minister's view that the Member States have not done what they have actually promised. What I meant was that the Commission has unique power instruments. We can ensure that there are resources and exchange ideas, practices and good practices, but the Commission has some unique means of exerting pressure on those countries that do not do enough to put them on the right side of the minimum level of decency. That's what I meant.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-81	Madam President, I would like I can only note that gradual and structured work is taking place, because this must come into place. Then it is up to the Commission to use the tools they feel they need.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-82	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by thanking the Prime Minister for the presentation and for the clarity of Sweden's attitude towards Turkey. This has concerned us to some extent, and I am pleased to hear here today that it clearly believes that it is necessary to stand up for the values of the European Union in cooperation. It is, of course, important to cooperate with Turkey. I myself was there a few weeks ago, and it was extremely clear that many people feel obliged to leave Turkey now, although they would really like to stay in the immediate area. We also see the same thing in Jordan and Lebanon. We must therefore increase cooperation and make it better there, but it must not be done under any conditions. I am also pleased to hear that it is still being maintained that Turkey should not be on the list of safe countries. I hope that this will continue to be seen in cooperation with the other third countries. The values of the European Union must be upheld. Much has been said about strengthening external border protection, even at the meeting as I understood it. I wonder how this is supposed to be done. The Prime Minister said that there was not much detail at the meeting, but I would still like to hear the line of argument that Sweden held and also how it was talked about upholding the right of asylum and human rights when external border protection was strengthened. There are a lot of stories about how, not least on the border between Turkey and Greece, people have acted in an incredibly inhumane way against those who are trying to cross. I'd like to hear a little more about it. We have spoken a lot in the past about legal ways. If border protection is strengthened and in different ways try to keep people away from travelling that way, alternative routes should be found at the same time. I'd like to hear a little bit about it. Then I would just like to hear something a little quickly about whether there were any countries at the meeting that want to take more people into the redistribution system. We know that many countries that have received very few in the past have seen an increase in numbers in recent times and that they have said'stop'.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-90	Madam President, I would like As far as Turkey is concerned, we share the view that it is a matter of standing up for our values and that it should not be on the list of safe countries. We should, however, be aware that this is not a unanimous view of the European Union. There are different views, and that means that this will come up for discussion. We must be aware of that. I want to be very clear in this House that this is the case. We do not know what the majority ratio is. As far as external border protection is concerned, our argument is that if we are to have good Schengen cooperation, as we want, and have the mobility that we have sought and achieved, the external borders must function properly. They don't. There are different levels of possibilities to maintain that limit. For the Swedish part, we think this is a national responsibility. We do not want Europe to come and decide how to manage our borders, but we are happy to cooperate and cooperate to ensure that we can maintain the external borders in the different parts. We have therefore set up and will provide, for example, border police and other expertise to Frontex and Easo in order for it to work well. With regard to how this should be done with regard to human rights, it is included in previous conclusions, and we have always had that with us. It must all be done with regard to human rights, humanity and so on. It's hard to imagine anything else; we can't do it. We must maintain it, and this is in our previous conclusions. When it comes to legal ways, I keep bringing it up. There are rumours that there are several parties in the European Parliament who are interested in this. I have not heard so many of my colleagues express it, but right now there is a full focus on the situation. However, we have mentioned this as a way of getting away from the dangerous voyages across the sea and the long marches through Europe.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-96	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. I'd like to hear a little bit about my last question. Many countries that have previously been sceptical about increasing the number of asylum seekers they receive have seen a rather large increase in recent times, as most EU countries have done. On the basis of the meeting, is there still something or some countries that say they are willing to increase their number of asylum seekers? As we see it, legal paths are closely linked to what is happening now, to strengthening external border protection and so on. If you close a road, you have to open other safe, safe and legal roads. People on the run must be able to obtain asylum and a safe haven somewhere in the future. I think it will be a little strange if you separate these two things and say: We will then take that. They're very strong together.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-100	Madam President, I would like I'm sorry, Johanna Jönsson, I would have answered the question about more countries. I forgot about it. One country that has given public expression is Estonia. They have said that they want to help Sweden. I understand full well that it is not the number of redistributions that we hoped for, but it is still a start. Several countries have said informally that they want to help. That is why I believe that the discussion must take place now with the Commission so that it becomes as pragmatic as possible. We are not going to have big standing wars where you stand in each of your trenches, but we are going to try to get started on this. Then perhaps it is possible to find a different way than we have so far. Several countries have expressed this, and one that has done so publicly is Estonia. I fully share the view of legal ways. We have been pushing for cooperation, not least within the framework of the UNHCR. We know that it is a respected and long-established organisation where we need to get better cooperation so that more people can get a safe way on their way instead of a deadly one.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-105	Madam President, I would like I thank the Prime Minister for the report from the European Council. Prior to the meeting in Valletta, the Prime Minister held a press conference and talked about the future of the EU's refugee and asylum policy. I got a little carried away when I read the report from the press conference, because it was very far-reaching proposals on what asylum policy should look like in the long term within the EU. If we had not seen the dramatic events the following days, there would probably have been a lot of discussion about what the Prime Minister said in Valletta. If I understood the report correctly, the Prime Minister wants the current Dublin Convention to be removed and replaced by a completely new system based on seeking asylum at the EU border. The EU is looking for asylum seekers, and then it distributes asylum seekers between the different countries. It is a complete shift in asylum policy as it has been during the time we know about. It also includes the fact that asylum seekers should not be able to go to a particular country, but it is essentially the EU that decides. At least that's how I read the record. One thing that surprises me is how far these proposals go. It could mean the end of a national asylum trial if the thought of the Prime Minister's words in Valletta were to be followed. The second thing that surprises me is why this was not raised in the European Council before the Prime Minister went to the summit. I think it is reasonable to hear from Parliament and make it clear that there is a parliamentary majority in favour of this approach. I think that should have happened in this case. I have a lot of sympathy for a few things in what the Prime Minister says. The Dublin Convention does not work in practice. That's it-- we can all see it. The second is that we must have a common responsibility. It's quite obvious. It is important that Sweden push ahead. But does the Prime Minister think that such an EU common asylum policy would mean that we no longer have a national asylum procedure? Is it a supplement, or is it a substitute? Does the Prime Minister not see the risk – because we have different ways of examining asylum – that in practice it means an old-fashioned right of asylum for Sweden?
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-113	Madam President, I would like As far as asylum policy is concerned, I have never put forward any concrete proposals. I can only say that if we are to have the order that we have today, it will be difficult to deal with the issue of asylum. Then I think it is correct to say: we need a discussion on what future order should look like. I said at the meeting of the EU Council that I see that in the future it is difficult to choose exactly which country to go to. Today we have a system where Sweden receives 10 000 people per week. Every year there are 520,000 people. Other countries are nowhere near this — far from it. If we then say that it is a common problem and a common challenge that we have before us, I think it is right to say that we probably need to think about how it will work in the future. However, I have not said that it should be exactly in a certain way – I have never spoken about that. However, I think it is good that we should start such a discussion, because what we have today is not sustainable. Just take the issue of hotspots and how to work. That is exactly the question I have put to the European Council. If we really get this in order so that it works, what will happen to the people who are there? Are they going to stay in prison camp? If they're not, where are they going? Should they also be sent to Sweden, Germany and Austria, or should we have a redistribution mechanism that actually works where all countries assume their responsibilities? I mean, we should have it later. Otherwise, it won't work. This is a problem, a challenge for the European Union, and it is also an opportunity for the European Union, a huge opportunity, if we do that right. But if we do it wrong, there will be a problem, and then we must be able to see that we need to think new. I am happy to start that discussion, but I have not come up with any precise solutions, nor will I until we have discussed it.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-118	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister. We fully agree that the current system does not work. It's quite obvious. When you most need to act together, you do what is least, you might say. Of course, it is also quite right to discuss what the future should be like. But when a prime minister comes to a summit and speaks in a certain direction, it is perceived as the nation's position. If you say that it should be an EU-wide system – which I think many people perceive as having no national asylum system anymore – and that as an asylum seeker you should not be able to influence where you come from, then it is probably understood as Sweden's position. I therefore maintain that it would have been wise to discuss this before speaking in that direction. I wonder, Stefan Löfven, how do you think it will work in the future? Should this replace the national asylum system altogether? Is it only possible to apply for asylum at EU level? It was possible to perceive the Prime Minister that way.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-122	Madam President, I would like No, again: I have not talked about it, about national decision-making rights, about granting asylum or not. I haven't talked about it. On the other hand, I have talked about the need to establish a common regulatory framework that brings together reception and return. How will the hotspot work? How will the redeployment work? Then the current regulations are not enough. That is what I have raised a discussion about. I believe that we are obliged to do so. We cannot say that it does not work well, that it is a European challenge that we have together, but that we should not discuss new rules on how it should work. It makes no sense to me. I conclude that we need a discussion on how it will work in the future. However, I have not provided any precise solutions for what it should look like. It must, of course, be analysed and discussed. Such a discussion needs to be initiated. Everything else I actually think is wrong.
i-AQXQaU4UdVgE8aUnRYLqoQ	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Prime Minister, for reporting back! I believe that, in these days, only liberals can remember the euphoria of the European Union that they felt after the Cold War and that in 2012 we actually received the Nobel Peace Prize, perhaps the finest prize in the world, for the fact that the European Union has been contributing to peace, reconciliation, democracy and human rights for over 60 years. I guess that's something you need to remind yourself of today. As I have said earlier in these discussions, we are currently facing a monumental upheaval. If we in Europe fail together to cope with the crisis that we are facing, the question is what we have left of the construction that we have all worked on. I share Mr Sjöstedt's question that it is sometimes difficult to know what is the Prime Minister's own thoughts and what is Sweden's policy, including with regard to the Dublin regulation. The Prime Minister says that he has never put forward any concrete proposals. Then I assume that it is the Prime Minister's own thoughts that he made in the reporting earlier to the media on the Dublin Regulation – it is true that only a new order is to be started, but we know nothing about what it should contain. It would have been interesting to know from the Prime Minister if you still have some thoughts about what that new order should contain. The same is true of external border protection versus internal borders. The Prime Minister says that national borders are national affairs, while external border protection is a common EU commitment. How does this issue balance, that national borders are national affairs, while external border protection is an EU commitment? Somewhere, it's gonna crash. I also have a brief question about Turkey. As I understand it, Turkey has, as a counter-claim to help with refugee management, demanded visa liberalisation and SEK 28 billion over two years. Were there any other demands that Turkey made that could be talked about?
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-132	Madam President, I would like As far as the future regulatory framework is concerned, we have a common challenge in the EU. This is a common task. Everyone notes that it does not work as it does today. Then it is quite logical for me to say: we need to look at how we are going to make it work. Or we change the principle and say: this is not an EU-wide problem. But I mean it is. We can never say: this is the task of individual countries – you have to take what you want. It is an EU-wide challenge, and then we must arrange it together. If today's order doesn't work, we need a new one in place. In my opinion, this discussion can be addressed without initially delivering the exact solutions. This is a discussion that must take place here in Sweden together with other countries. There are 28 of us Member States who should take an opinion on this matter. Then I don't think the smartest way to start is to say: Exactly this is how we want it. You have to start at a completely different end. I think it is not only right to raise that discussion but that we have a duty to do so. We cannot hide ourselves by saying: we have problems and a challenge here, and it does not work– but let us go on as we have done so far. I do not think anyone is satisfied with that situation. I can say that I am not alone in the European Council in that discussion, but there are, of course, more people who think that we need something else. With regard to Turkey, what is being discussed is EUR 3 billion in two years – not twice EUR 3 billion. What the Commission is going to come back with is how it is going to be financed. It is believed that 500 million are in the current budget. This means that it is 2 1⁄2 billion that must be added. In some way, the starting point is that it should be possible to find out in the overall EU system. In addition, the political benefits that Turkey obviously wants are: the resumption of membership negotiations and visa liberalisation.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-137	Madam President, I would like I believe that the Prime Minister is absolutely convinced that the People's Party shares the view that the asylum process is a joint task of the European Union very much. It is something that our former Commissioner worked hard to get the rest of the 28 countries to understand the importance of this. I don't think I was alone on Friday night sitting in front of the TV and honestly crying over the state of the world when you watched the news from Paris. I know that this was not on the agenda earlier. I think this is not the time to go into unnecessary polemics in this Chamber. However, when talking about the mass immigration disaster, perhaps you should consider what is disaster and what is not disaster – and also remind yourself that it is not the refugees that we are going to fight, but it is the terrorists that we are going to fight to the utmost. Now France has asked other EU countries for help in dealing with this disaster. I wonder if the Prime Minister has had time to think about what Sweden can contribute to this particular matter.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-141	Madam President, I would like I fully share Tina Acketoft's view on the view of mass immigration and what is a problem and not a problem, especially when it is linked to the terrible terrorist attack in Paris. We do not yet know what France wants in detail. They have said that they want help, and we have said that we are, of course, standing next to them in this in solidarity. We want to help. Yes. But they have not yet expressed what help they want. Therefore, it is too early to analyse what this might be about. Let us take this up when France has been able to specify what help they need.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-143	Madam President, I would like I thank the Prime Minister for the briefing. There are many things that have been put on edge since the tragic event took place in Paris on Friday evening. It is an act of terrorism that is unacceptable, and all EU countries must now ensure that Europe's citizens are protected in different ways. Of course, the existence of a person who had infiltrated migratory flows means that we must take this discussion seriously, even though the vast majority that will of course have nothing to do with terrorism at all. The Prime Minister says that the Dublin Regulation no longer works. That is quite right, and some new order is needed. I can agree with that. At the same time, however, I am a little bothered when the State Minister in Dagens Nyheter said on 16 October that national borders should be upheld and that border protection is a national responsibility. When, at a summit, Heads of Government say that we need to strengthen the EU's external border control, I am a little unsure where the Prime Minister is actually on this issue. I would therefore like further clarifications. Will Sweden help us get an external border guard that works? We must ensure who enters the European Union, and everyone must be registered. You should also go through luggage. It is not reasonable that we have such an enormous control on aircraft, while there is no control if you come by sea or land. This must somehow be compatible. Then I wonder: if the Dublin regulation does not work – so we have a lawless country – and the external borders do not work and we are now being said to strengthen the external borders, what about? Is the Dublin Regulation in force? If you register in the first country, is that where you should apply for asylum? Or what is the view of the Heads of Government when they argue that the external borders must be strengthened and that we must register at the border? Will the Dublin Regulation then still apply?
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-149	Madam President, I would like I would like to state once again that the Dublin Regulation applies until something else is in place. We can't have any other order. We can see that it is not working well today. I think most people agree on that. The problem today is that there is no registration in a number of countries. Then, of course, you have the right to apply for asylum in the country to which you come. This right is very important. It is a humanitarian issue. The Dublin Regulation therefore applies until something else is in place. As far as the EU's border controls are concerned, we fully agree – as we have stated in previous conclusions – that the EU's external border must work, otherwise internal cooperation will not work. This applies, in particular, to Schengen cooperation. The external border must therefore work. This does not automatically mean that people cannot apply for asylum, but only that there is order at our external borders. In this cooperation, Sweden is absolutely willing to contribute, as we have expressed, because it is also of great importance to Sweden that the external borders operate in all parts of the European Union. We are therefore happy to contribute to this with experts, border police and other staff in different ways for this to work. We have also contributed humanitarianly to this with our two boats that have been operating in the Mediterranean and have been able to save 5 000 - 6 000 lives. So Sweden is part of the cooperation, and we shall be, because we have every reason to protect the EU's external borders. However, I have said that when it comes to decisions on how to manage our borders, we see it as a national matter and that the European Union cannot come in and decide how to handle our border management. It is Sweden's mandate, and we are the ones to decide on it. I have expressed this in the European Council.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-157	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. Does it mean that if border protection, as it were, starts to work, and you register in the first country, that the application should also be made in the first country? They have not wanted to register because they do not want applications in these first countries. The question then is: will the Prime Minister of Sweden, when he goes to the next summit, argue that the Dublin Regulation must apply? If we do not have that order – you can register yourself, but then you can go wherever you want – the Dublin Regulation does not work. In what way does the Prime Minister intend to seriously implement the Dublin Regulation into the EU acquis and get other Heads of State or Government to assume their responsibilities in this context? I have another question, which is, of course, about legal ways. I have argued in the past that I think it is extremely important that we give this opportunity, because the EU's border controls will be strengthened whether we want it or not, and we must give people the opportunity to seek asylum. As far as the EU and Turkey are concerned, the Prime Minister says that it is not considered a safe country. Nevertheless, the Prime Minister wishes to contribute to visa liberalisation for Turkey. My question is, how does that make sense?
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-161	Madam President, I would like As far as border protection is concerned and if the Prime Minister is going to implement the Dublin Regulation in the other countries, I do not have this mandate. I have limited power. Much can be done as Prime Minister, but not implement European rules in other countries. On the other hand, Mrs Pethrus can be absolutely convinced that I have already said that it is the Dublin Regulation that applies until something else is in place. Then we have to stand up for it. This means that you then have to follow the rules that exist about where you are registered and so on. As far as legal channels are concerned, I fully share the view expressed. I've expressed it and I'm running it. But I am very alone in the European Council on this. But we have been pushing it at several European Councils, and we will continue to do so. On the issue of Turkey and whether Turkey can be put on the list of safe countries, I can say that in principle there is no possibility of asylum there. We have a different order in Sweden. There are so many Kurds in this area that must actually be protected. They shall seek asylum and receive support in accordance with existing rules. Therefore, we cannot say that Turkey can only be on the list of safe countries. There is a structure for the whole process of visa liberalisation and what needs to be done and what needs to work in order to take the next step and further steps. We have the same process with Ukraine. There are also other countries that want this type of process. Then there is a structure for how to get through until you possibly get to the day when it is visa-free. But then a number of rules must have been met. There I am confident that this will follow the structures and processes that all other countries will have to follow. If you have reached a certain status, you should have this opportunity.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-168	Madam President, I would like We are all shaken by the events that we have seen in Paris and by the great influx of refugees from Syria. Sweden has stood up very much for refugees, has received many and is a humanitarian power. We're not just big and strong. We must also be wise in this context. When you talk to other countries, it seems that there is a desire to be just like Sweden and Germany, but they do not really have the ability. They do not have tradition, and they have not accepted refugees after World War II. In fact, these countries have more of a tradition of being a refugee than of accepting refugees and helping. My question to the Prime Minister is whether something was raised in the discussion about what Sweden and Germany can actually teach other countries that certainly at government level have an intention to help but who have a population that does not have a maturity in receiving refugees in this way. Was this on the agenda? What can Sweden and Germany teach the other countries, so that they can also help so that more can be received?
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-172	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lotta Olsson! It wasn't on the agenda that way. There is no concrete discussion about Sweden and Germany teaching others. On the other hand, there is a discussion between Sweden and Germany and also Austria and Holland – we are trying to associate ourselves with several like-minded – about the need for us to do this together in the EU. That discussion includes help, support and advice – if necessary – for it to work. The fact that the joint work with Frontex must work even better, as I said earlier, is also included. And that includes adding our expertise and our human resources, the EEAS and so on. So we are also involved in the support work, in how to manage borders but also in the reception of refugees in a legally secure and humanitarian way, and so on. I'm sure there's more to be done in this area. But there was no such concrete discussion at the meeting.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-175	Madam President, I would like Perhaps something that would be good to take with you is that it should not be a pressure by saying: you should and you should. Perhaps what is needed is learning in the processes. We see that Estonia is still trying now. These are countries where there is absolutely no tradition of accepting. I think it is important that we, who are large and strong, are also wise and understand where the problem lies. Maybe it's not tough, but we're going to help them take on their mission in a good way.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-177	Madam President, I would like Lotta Olsson has a point in that it is not only to hit the big drum and say exactly how it should be. That is quite the starting point. For example, Estonia has publicly expressed its desire to do something. They want to do the right thing. And they belong to those countries that have previously said that they do not want to be subject to a Commission decision on how it should be. That is why I called on them and others to come up with a proposal on how a redistribution system that is not based on it could work in a different way. Then I welcome it. There is such a pragmatic discussion too. I believe, not least, that in the discussion at the meeting in Valletta there was a greater understanding of the need for us to do this. There was a greater willingness to make a little more effort on different sides.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-180	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask the Prime Minister a question because I have read reports in several newspapers that Sweden, Germany and Austria would have campaigned together at the Valletta Summit to tear up the Dublin Regulation. It was not something that we consulted with the Prime Minister or that I have heard in other contexts either. That is why I am interested to hear what the Prime Minister has to say about this.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-182	Madam President, I would like No, I didn't say that, Margareta Cederfelt. You shouldn't always believe what's in the media. However, I have said that the Dublin Regulation is not working as it is today. Everybody sees that. Then I think it is highly legitimate to say that we need something new. However, the Dublin Regulation applies until something else is in place. It is the Dublin Regulation that we are to comply with. I have been extremely clear about this in these contexts too. But for me it will be wrong not to be able to say that we would have to think about something new now that a common European challenge is not working.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-184	Madam President, I would like I raised the issue because I reflected on the fact that the Prime Minister made more points in the media on which I do not perceive that we had been consulted. It may be because it is a turbulent world now; many changes are taking place. However, it is important that what the Prime Minister is running at the European summits has been anchored in Parliament and that we have consulted on it. Another point I would like to raise is that I have read in the media, also in relation to this, that France would have just recently expressed a desire or interest to examine the possibility of tearing up the Schengen Agreement. Is this correct? If so, has the Prime Minister had time to reflect on this on behalf of Sweden?
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-186	Madam President, I would like We have also heard that someone would have expressed it. However, on the Councils of Ministers that have been, there has been no formal statement from France that they want to do so. So no, so far we have not understood such a thing.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-194	Madam President, I would like Jonas Sjöstedt has asked me whether I intend to take the initiative in allowing water supplies which are of great importance for the supply of drinking water to be classified as national interests according to the environmental code. I would like to begin by stating that drinking water issues are a high priority of the government. This is important for Sweden. Drinking water is our most important food. The protection of drinking water is therefore essential. The investigation is currently ongoing, among other things, A safe supply of drinking water. The investigation shall finalise its mission by 29 April 2016. The purpose of the investigation is to identify current and potential challenges for safe drinking water supply in the country, in the short and long term, and, where appropriate, propose appropriate measures. The mission also includes the issue of the protection of water resources. In addition, the investigation is on-going. The Committee Directive provides for a review of Chapter 3 by the investigator. in the environmental code and relevant parts of Chapter 4. in the environmental code. It also states that the investigator shall propose such measures as provide a system of land and water management, and in particular areas of national interest, which are appropriate, adaptable over time, focused on essential and current needs. The system shall not lead to unnecessary restrictions on the use of land and water areas or to the planning of their use. The investigation of national interests must present its final report by 1 December 2015. I am therefore awaiting the presentation of this mission.
i-7U1yzakgLKLZ2Qjsck5WhM	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister for the Environment and Deputy Prime Minister Åsa Romson! Earlier last autumn I was down at Vättern, in Norra Kärr, located just outside Gränna. It is a fantastic landscape, as everyone who has been there knows. It is a historical cultural landscape with old pastures, forests and agricultural landscapes. And everything slopes down to Vättern's water mirror and Visingsö. There is great concern in the area about what will happen in the future, given the mining plans in North Kärr. Concerns not only apply to the local environment but also to the future of Vättern. The liquid is a rather unusual lake in many ways. It's unusually deep. It takes a long time until the water in the lake has been replaced. This means that the pollutants that affect Vättern persist for a long time. The liquid is also a clean lake with a unique reserve of drinking water used today by hundreds of thousands of people living around the lake. In the future, it is not impossible in view of climate change and other things that Mälardalen would also have to draw drinking water from Vättern. At a time of decreasing resources with clean water in the world and in Sweden, this is something we should be very careful about. It is an Australian exploration company working with the mining plans aimed at developing rare earth metals. It is a very small part of what is in the ground, but it involves a very large procedure. An enormous open-pit quarry is planned, which makes it large amounts of waste and huge amounts of chemicals that are used in the enrichment process. When you see what has happened elsewhere with mining, it raises a concern about what would happen if the accident were to occur. What happens if the waste or chemicals somehow enter the water system? Parts of the mining area are located in the water catchment area of Vättern. Therefore, it is relevant to ask: Could this be a threat to the water of Vättern? Many of those who live in the area and even a lot of local politicians do not want the mine, do not want to take a chance in this way. Today they feel quite powerless. They cannot reach the state process and cannot influence it by political and democratic means. The Swedish legislation is such that the mining company is very strong. The possibilities for local residents to influence this type of project are often quite small. In practice, it will be the courts that decide whether or not to start exploration. I think that this shows a crucial weakness in Swedish mineral legislation, especially when it is opposed to Swedish environmental legislation. The liquid does not lack protection; it has protection as a Natura 2000 site. But we all know that when different national interests are set against each other, it is often environmental legislation that has to stand back – of course not always, but it is often that way. I therefore believe that the legislation should be amended so that the environment is strengthened when it is opposed to other national interests as is the case here. One opportunity to do this is to say that fresh water is a national interest. Then it would be stronger when you make the assessment. I had hoped that Åsa Romson would have expressed a political will in her reply. I understand there's an investigation going on, and that's very good. But I think that both those who live at Vättern and the mining company – I'm sure one way or another you take part in this debate – are interested in hearing what the government thinks. Now give them an indication of what it will be like! I would very much like you, Åsa Romson, in this debate to give this indication and say: Yes, of course we should protect the water of Vättern better. I would also like Vättern to be better protected in competition with other interests – be it the military, gas companies or mining companies. That is what I want from you in your speeches, that you, as Minister of the Environment, Environment Party and Government representative, say: It is clear that we will strengthen the protection of Vättern.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-209	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I, like Jonas Sjöstedt, think that this is a rather defensive response. I also call for a much stronger focus on these issues. I grew up in Vadstena. I have lived there for many years and know many people there. They are today very concerned about what is happening around Vättern in terms of both mining and some other things. These concerns must be taken seriously. That is why we are perhaps calling for a political direction on what will happen to Vättern. As Jonas Sjöstedt was aware, the areas around Vättern are a cultural landscape, and it is important to preserve it. The liquid as a drinking water supply is of course extremely important, not only for those who live at Vättern. I live in Norrköping, and all parts of Östergötland will surely in future be dependent on Vättern as a drinking water supply, and this may also apply to Mälardalen. Here you have to be sharp when you emphasise how important the environment around Vättern is and that it should be preserved. When I meet my constituents in Östergötland, especially at the western edge towards Vättern and around Vadstena and Ödeshög, I notice that there is a concern. There are no concrete pledges that this is being taken seriously. The lack of commitment means that people's concerns are very great. A network has been formed that has researched and developed various studies that show how big the risks are for mining to affect all the environment around Vättern. One issue that has not been so much on the agenda and which I think will be quite important is the Swedish Armed Forces' exercises in and around Vättern. Karlsborg is a base for air operations. Although not everyone thinks about it, it may be the case that the host country agreement with NATO will affect the exercises so that the exercises are expanded, and it affects the environment around Vättern. These exercises also take place in the water. I would therefore like to see a much stronger emphasis placed on the importance of defending the Vättern environment and Vättern as a source of drinking water. It would also reassure people in the network around Vättern. What exactly are we aiming for? Do we really protect the environment around Vättern and Vättern as drinking water? I therefore also call for a much clearer answer to the question: what is our priority? Do we protect this or do we slip on it? I would really like the Minister to be much clearer in his reply.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-216	Madam President, I would like This is an important debate. It reflects the conflict that we see on many issues, namely when the environment and access to clean water are on one side and other industrial interests and defence interests are on the other side. Too often it is the environment and fresh water that draw the shortest straw. You get permission for large-scale mining or for the defence to expand your flights. I respect the fact that, as a minister, they want well-founded results and are therefore investigating things. But I also think it is defensive to refer only to investigations. These are by no means new conflicts of interest, but we have seen them for far too long. Torbjörn Björlund mentioned earlier that the Swedish Armed Forces are pressing for more than double their flights over Vättern. They also want to shoot many more shots that then end up on the bottom of the Vättern and soil the water. The company Gripen Gas has been authorised to test drilling for fossil gas in aluminum shale. If this activity were to develop on a full scale, it would have absolutely devastating effects on the surrounding environment and not least on Vättern as a lake and drinking water supply. I think that Jonas Sjöstedt mentioned a good example on the way forward, namely that water with great importance for the supply of drinking water should be classified as a national interest. Then Vättern would most likely have a much stronger protection. I would also like to ask the Minister for Climate and the Environment if the government has any plans to review the legislation in this area so that it does not continue to be the unfortunate outcome that business interests and the Swedish Armed Forces can constantly run over environmental interests. Are there any plans to strengthen the protection of the environment and fresh water against large-scale exploitation? As far as the Armed Forces' plans are concerned, I would also like to know whether the Minister for Climate and the Environment has made direct contact with the Minister for Defence. Ministers can resolve conflicts of interest between themselves. It is not only at Vättern that the Swedish Armed Forces want to expand their flights. There are also other conflicts of interest when, for example, you want to build wind farms and the defence says no, because you cannot fly with your aircraft. Then you wonder what kind of aircraft the defense has that can't even navigate wind farms. I would be grateful if I could have answers to my questions.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-224	Madam President, I would like I was going to come to the rescue of the Minister for the Environment on this issue. Sanctuary and balance! About 400 000 people get their water from Lake Vättern. Most Swedes probably get their water from different lakes. The liquid is 128 meters deep. Here and where is the visibility depth 12 meters. The water quality is high today, which is very good. But there are always threats. As early as 2005, I exercised with other center parties on the importance of protecting Vättern's water and pointed out that Vättern is of course of untaxable national value. The water of Vättern is, like many other waters in our world, exposed to pollution from various sources, such as industries, cars, aircraft, municipal wastewater treatment plants and agriculture and forestry – activities that are needed for us to survive and get jobs and well-being here in the country and in other countries, but which can lead to environmental problems. In Vättern, the dumping of ammunition and other weapons has been carried out after both the First and Second World Wars. It is also pushed during flying exercises with small amounts but lead and so on. Of course, all water in Sweden, including Lake Vättern's water, should be best protected and protected against the various threats and sources of emissions that certainly exist in a large measure. That is why Mr Sver ige has strict environmental legislation. V in all, not least the Center Party, has pushed for it to be in place. Authorities should carefully examine applications for mining, for example, or extended shootings at existing shooting fields. However, trials of the environmental code are not carried out by the government, parliament or worried people in Östergötland, Torbjörn, however much you would like it to be so, but they are done by authorities in accordance with our legislation. Then decisions can be appealed, ultimately to the government. If the legislation does not work, the government and parliament can change it. I am pleased that there are two investigations going on looking at these important issues. I assume, then, that a very careful examination is now being made of what Jonas Sjöstedt and others are talking about. And yes, I also have concerns about mining plans so close to Vättern. It has to be tested very carefully. But there are also other sources of emissions that are inevitable and need to be taken into account. E4 goes very close to Vättern with a very strong car traffic that emits emissions. There is intense air traffic at high altitudes above the lake Vättern, and it also produces large emissions. We talk mostly about the defense aircraft, which at some point runs over Vättern and so on, but as far as emissions are concerned, I think the regular passenger flights have a greater effect to consider. There are many boats that travel in the lake, and they emit emissions, as well as municipalities, agriculture and so on. There have been major limitations. Work is under way to achieve even better results, and I think that is a good thing. The Minister refers to the very important investigations under way. It is good that they are added and working. There is a debate about whether arable land should be classified as national interest. Water can certainly also be discussed in this way. There are arguments both for and against. Therefore, such issues need to be carefully examined before changes are made to our already stringent environmental legislation. I'm East Göte. I support the fact that we have a vibrant and viable Östergötland with many people, good prosperity, jobs, business and business. I want us to have a good environment throughout Östergötland and around Vättern. That is what we are going to work for, and it is with that whole in mind that we should discuss the sub-questions raised by Jonas Sjöstedt.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-233	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for the Environment for his answer. Once again, we have been told that the government emphasises the protection of water. It is said that there are opposing interests. In fact, I do not think that there are so many opposing interests. Do you want a job? Then just look at where the jobs of the future are. Ecotourism and the tourism industry are already attracting more export revenues per year than most large industries do. The protection of water is achieved through the responsible use of resources. We are waiting for the European directive on the circular economy, which is coming soon. You can reuse things. We have many waste heaps and other extractable sources where the concentration of rare earth metals is only marginally lower than in the planned mine. I therefore find it difficult to understand why this mine would be a national interest. I find it hard to understand why you would sacrifice future jobs for the mine. I find it hard to understand that one might think that the benefits of unnecessarily destroying land so close to our largest drinking water supply would be worth the price. Of course the government has to wait for the investigation. I hope that the investigation will clearly demonstrate the value of protecting water. We can look at other objectives we have for development in Sweden, such as innovation, Madam President. Day crime is an ancient phenomenon, dear friends of the Riksdag. These already existed 5 000 years ago. That is not where the innovations and the future are. Innovations and the future lie in reusing materials, stopping flows and using old slag heaps that are themselves valuable sources of raw materials. That is where we have the innovations, the jobs and the future. For my part, I sit back on the bench and safely await the investigation and the government's decision that this is the past. The future lies in green jobs and sustainable employment. The lakes should be a source of joy, recreation, pleasure and life, not dropped bombs and mining slag.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-240	Madam President, I would like You're never gonna be an East Göte, are you? As an ostgöte, who has lived in Stockholm for a very long time, I want to get up in the debate. It is clear that it should be orderly and that you should be careful of the water of Vättern. It is one of the largest water sources in Sweden. Actually, I don't think it's the biggest, Carl Schlyter, but that Mälaren is something bigger, as there are more people getting water from Mälaren. But we can argue about it some other time. In any case, of course, we need to protect the drinking water supply. However, I find it very difficult to understand the argument that it would be absolutely necessary not to wait for the investigations that are being carried out. In this House and in this House, we do not usually go before investigations, unless something quite exceptional has happened. The Institute of Investigation is fundamental. We simply want to find out all the advantages and disadvantages before we go to decisions. Otherwise, there's no point in setting up an investigation. Furthermore, as Mr Danielsson said just now, it is very important that we have faith in the authorities that have to make the decisive decisions about the environment. When somewhere in our country something happens that causes people to feel concerned about their environment and proximity, it should not be that a minister should have to speak and change a legislation or something like that. I don't really want such a society. The country should be governed by law and express what I think is most important. Even if Vättern's water is important, you can't just say: Let's do this, because we think it would be best. I don't know if this mining establishment could happen at all. This has been going on for quite some time now, and I am not so sure that there will be anything of it. As far as defence is concerned, it has been discussed several times. Both the previous government and I imagine this government has also tried to reduce flights over Vättern. There is a somewhat overtone in the debate. Staffan Danielsson puts it very well. There are other threats that are not present. In the debate, it is usually an issue on which attention is focused, and then it is only that question that is in the air. This makes it a very strange debate and, above all, a very distorted debate.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-247	Madam President, I would like Thank you for a lively debate! It is not always that you come to the Chamber and there are several-headed audiences here. I know that many people listen in other ways to the debate. Jonas Sjöstedt asked me as Minister about the protection of drinking water. Here is the question of Vättern. It is a source of drinking water for a great many people. It may not yet be the largest in Sweden, but it can be. That is a very serious question. It is good to feel that Parliament is as committed to the issue as it is. I would like to repeat and clarify what I said, if perhaps it was missed initially. Sometimes you listen a little later to the answer and not so much to the introduction. Jonas Sjöstedt asked whether I intend to take the initiative to classify water resources that are of great importance as national interest according to the environmental code. Such an initiative has already been taken by the government. We have set up an investigation to look at how to better protect the supply of drinking water. That investigation is in place right now, and it's sitting for a reason. This is because we need to look at drinking water issues. Drinking water is our most important food. It is also a water that is affected by the activity that takes place both on land and in water. It takes care of a lot and is a lacquer mouse test of what is not as good as taking place in our society. You release toxins, chemicals and other dangers that are not good for the environment, animals or humans. Drinking water issues have become much more in focus in Sweden in recent years. I think that's good. However, they have not yet found their very clear legal regulation. That is why there are several investigations going on that will lead to proposals and legislative proposals that the government will hopefully be able to come to the House. With this interest, I see that we should be able to have a good process forward and achieve how we strengthen the protection of drinking water in Sweden. It's the entrance. I do not want to stand here and be unclear on any point. The supply of drinking water in Sweden is very important. It is a priority for the government and an important issue for Sweden. It is absolutely fundamental how we will secure access in our country. As far as the initiatives taken are concerned, there is an investigation already in place when the government took office. It is about national interests and includes precisely the question asked by Jonas Sjöstedt. That's the same question I heard from Jens Holm. How do we strengthen the protection of the regulatory framework? There are several actors. Among other things, Svenskt Vatten is a strong and important player in Sweden, which primarily brings together the municipal companies that work with drinking water production but also others. They indicate that they want a national interest in water. That's why we set up the investigation. The chamber can be calm on that point. The government acts in what I do not at all perceive as a partisan issue. There is a very strong demand from everyone. We need to strengthen the protection of drinking water in Sweden. This also applies, of course, to Vättern. As Minister, I cannot talk about specific cases when we talk about general laws. It is about how to apply the laws in the local contexts and in the specific threat images. It is an issue that lies with the authorities and the courts. There, as Minister, I will not act. I know that Members of Parliament know and also respect this in the debate.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-258	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for the Environment, Åsa Romson, for her clarity. It is beneficial to hear that the purpose is not just to investigate but to investigate to protect. It was a very welcome and good news. I think a lot of people who live around Vättern feel relieved about it. There may also be some mining company out there somewhere listening. I shall point out, however, that it is urgent. Some of the issues are now crucial in our legal system. The question is, what is the time first, the protection or the judgment? I would like to encourage the government to hurry as much as it can to table a proposal to Parliament. I can already promise my party's support for stronger legislation in this area. We do not want to see mistakes made on the road before it comes into force. Part of the discussion has been about: how strong is our environmental legislation actually compared to other interests? I think many of us like the idea and to say that Sweden has the world's toughest environmental legislation. It's not always like that. It varies a lot more than you think. The discussion about the water of Vättern shows several of the weaknesses we have. We have a major imbalance between mineral legislation and environmental protection. It's very obvious. We have an authority, the Mountain State, which a little too much acts as the industry's representative and less as an independent authority. In any case, it has done so historically when it has given permission, tried things and such. I believe that our mineral law needs to be tightened up in order to take greater account of environmental concerns. An obvious absurdity in Swedish mineral legislation is that you can explore and break in protected natural areas. It is not reasonable that this is the way it is. This enables the gas company to be active outside Motala and Vadstena both in Vättern and on land. You can do it in the parts s if are protected, which the Vättern is. It's something that doesn't fit the very idea that we first protect an area of consideration for nature and then say: All right, drill in aluminum and see if you find gas. That possibility should be completely removed. You're not supposed to be able to drill or break in this case. The welling of fossil gas in Östergötland and Vättern also shows another problem. Should Sweden be a country that builds up a fossil industry? Should we bring up gas if we find it? Should we pick up oil or coal if we find it? I mean, we shouldn't do that. The problem with the climate issue is that we take up too much coal, gas and oil and incinerate it. Sweden has unique opportunities to expand renewable energy instead. Not least, the rural areas of Östergötland can flourish with biogas, wind power, solar cells and all that it can be. The whole idea of exploiting fossil deposits is terribly out of date. It is indeed yesterday's economy and yesterday's environmental thinking. Another obvious flaw in Swedish legislation is that we still allow the exploitation of fossil energy sources in Sweden. In addition to the mine in Norra Kärr and drilling for fossil gas that we discussed here, we have a third area, military exercises. One should know that the shooting exercises over Vättern, which often take place in the Karlsborg area, should not only increase. They're going to multiply. This is where ammunition that contains some things that are not directly useful for the water and the environment in Vättern. If the defense doesn't have an alternative, maybe it's reasonable. But everything indicates that the defense has alternatives that are better from an environmental point of view, for example in Älvdalen, where there is a well-used shooting area. This points to a third weakness. The military's own decisions may not be reviewed from an environmental point of view. It's a very old-fashioned order. The defense is important. It's a matter of national interest. But you can choose where to shoot, practice and partly soil the environment.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-270	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for taking this opportunity to stress the importance of this issue. We get a clear answer that the government takes it seriously. I think that's great. Staffan Danielsson was into something that is actually a little counterproductive. It is about how pressured Vättern today is about other emissions. This makes it even more important to protect Vättern from the impact that could come from mining work and such things. If we have a farm that may not always have the right environmental focus, it affects Lake Vättern's water. Should you also add mining and even more exercises in the Swedish Armed Forces it gets even worse. It's about airplanes flying at 10,000 meters and releasing a lot. It is not at all good, and it affects Vättern today. Somewhere it will be an argument that we absolutely must distance ourselves from both mining and increased military exercises. Legislation is central. I agree that we must have a good investigation. We need time to go through it and see what it looks like. But it is not that there are no investigations. There are studies today that point to the great dangers of both breaking fossil gas and the mine in North Kärr. The network around Vättern consists of a number of people who have been involved in the matter, and they have many experts and many knowledgeable in their ranks. They have already produced a number of materials about the danger of mining. In addition, there are a number of studies showing how the Swedish Armed Forces' influence could increase the danger to Vättern. I think that's the big bits. Take what there is! Make sure the investigators do the right thing, and then you can make the right decision. I believe that the way forward is to ensure that we have drinking water as a national interest on an equal footing with many other legislations. It must be something we work for. I definitely think that the worried people around Vättern and in all of Östergötland, really, need to have that answer. I think it would be good to be overly clear about that.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-275	Madam President, I would like I turn first to Staffan Danielsson from the Center Party. I am a little tired of mantras that we have such incredibly strict environmental legislation in Sweden. I'm a little afraid that it will be a self-fulfilling prophecy; you think you can sit with your arms crossed because everything is so great. It is in this Sweden that you can test drilling for fossil energy sources in nature protected areas, for example. It is in this Sweden that an ancient natural forest that has stood for hundreds of years and has a fantastic biodiversity. It is in this Sweden that you get the bottom trawl in the marine nature reserve. Yes, it is done in Sweden. It is in this Sweden that large-scale mining operations can be carried out in the middle of the Sami reindeer grazing area. It is in this Sweden that you can endanger the drinking water for hundreds of thousands of people. If the Center Party thinks this is all right, then it will have to stand for Staffan Danielsson and the Center Party. I don't think so. That is why we in the Left Party are calling for tougher and more stringent environmental legislation in order to find a better balance when these interests are against each other. I would like to thank the Minister for Climate and Environment for his answer. I think it sounds hopeful. However, I would also like answers to the question of defence and its plans to increase the number of flights and the diversity of the shots that will be fired over Vättern. Has the Minister for Climate and the Environment had any dialogue with the Minister for Defence about this? What does the Minister for Climate and the Environment think about the defence plans? Here, too, we need a clearer balance.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-279	Madam President, I would like This is an important and interesting debate. Now the Green Party is in the government, and this means that the tone from both Åsa Romson and Carl Schlyter is much lower than it was during all the opposition years before. This is how life will be easy; we recognize it in other parties as well. The Left Party, on the other hand, is both a government supporter and an oppositionist. It is also noticeable, because the tone is still higher. This is not a criticism but more a factual statement. Me and the Center Party are warm friends and drivers of renewable energy, which we should of course invest in when we try to phase out fossil energy. How quickly it can go can be discussed, but the direction is absolutely clear. We managed to get a long way along the road during the eight years of government. We certainly want strict environmental laws, but not stupid string. Sweden cannot be too far ahead of other countries in the world because we are still competing for our welfare in a common market. We must have strict laws, but we must see them in an international perspective. We want to protect a viable agriculture in Sweden and an industry with great environmental concerns that remains in Sweden. We also want a defence in Sweden that can practice and practice. Sometimes the Left Party and the Green Party seem to want to protect the environment in Sweden so much that it is better to close down agriculture and industry, and perhaps defence, in order to protect the environment. It's a serious misunderstanding. We must have an international perspective. If we start importing food and industrial products from other countries where you have much lower environmental values at their plants, it will not benefit the environment in a global perspective if Swedish agriculture and Swedish industry are knocked out. The issue of defence is a big one. The Center Party works for a stronger defence, and not always does the Left and the Green Party.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-284	Madam President, I would like It may be tempting to respond to speeches from other Members, but I thought I would put questions to the Minister in essence. I am also pleased with the answer. I look forward with confidence to the fact that the Green Party, with the Social Democrats in the government, is really changing this so that we have a belief in the future here in Sweden. Defence policy for me is security policy. It's not the most weapons possible, it's the most security possible. It is built with international solidarity, with peace corps and with other things. You build the foundation for peace, and not maximum capacity for war. Then you end up with a war. When it comes to water and Vättern I have to thank Börje; I would have said one of the greatest. Thank you for that – you should always be correct in the speaker's chair! On the other hand, I wonder where solidarity is. California had the world's largest mine... or maybe it's best if I say one of the world's largest mines... for rare earth metals. It was put down precisely because of the setting of environmental requirements. That's when it was shut down. We cannot compromise environmental requirements simply because some other country has not yet implemented them. California carried them out. The mine was shut down. It is as well that we have the same strict environmental requirements as California. Or should we lower our environmental requirements to dig up Sweden's soil? No, we should use resources in an efficient and sustainable way. Then not all of these open pit mines are needed. Then there's soil left to live on.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-288	Madam President, I would like I'd be very interested to know where you're breaking fossil gas and how many places in the country you're doing it. As far as I know, it's not done. It is true that it is beginning to be just over a year since I left the Committee on Economic Affairs, but at that time there was no fossil gas that was broken. However, what has been done and obtained a number of permits is to drill, but there are two different things. It's not that hard to get permission to drill. On the other hand, when it comes to opening a mine and extracting natural gas and other things, it is quite rigid rules. Both Jonas Sjöstedt and Jens Holm really know very well that it is that way and that this is not really the same thing. Then one place or another they have built mines where they might not have been. I cannot judge that, but it is possible that this is the way it is. The second point I would like to make is that perhaps we should not say no to more mines in Sweden. It is possible that we should be more restrictive, but where in the world should we be able to extract metals? Is it again China that is going to do it and pollute its environment? We must safeguard a good environment all over the world. It can't just be our own environment that's the most important thing. I agree with Carl Schlyter that it is clear that we should not have worse environmental legislation. We should of course have such good environmental legislation as possible. Then I am a little allergic to this that we should introduce the rules that have been introduced in some other country in our country, because it has rarely become good when we have done exactly that way. I think that is wrong in this context, Madam President.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-292	Madam President, I would like I will begin by thanking Jonas Sjöstedt for his support in coming to Parliament with stronger proposals on how we strengthen legislation and rules to protect not least drinking water in Sweden. As I announced and made clear in my reply, it is the Government's ambition, because drinking water is simply a very priority issue. I note that water issues have increased in general in terms of mineral and natural activities. These are the things that lie in the ongoing assessments, because you cannot open mines in Sweden, for example, without obtaining permits according to the environmental code. Jens Holm wants me to answer questions about the defense. I do not have the debate today, which is about national interests in drinking water, with me an updated basis which concerns exactly what defence means with its activities around Vättern. So I cannot answer that today.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-295	Madam President, I would like Thank you for this debate, Minister for Climate and Environment Åsa Romson! I think it has been a good and clarifying debate. I look forward to a proposal on the table of Parliament to strengthen the protection of drinking water in Sweden. It's welcome. I think people around Vättern also welcome the message. I hope that this will happen as soon as the mills of bureaucracy can grind, so that we do not have to make mistakes along the way. I would also like us to look at some other areas of legislation in the future. It can certainly be a subject for further debate. I believe that we have too little balance between environmental considerations and economic interests in relation to the mineral law. Sweden should be a mining nation, I think. But we will be a mining nation where we are among the best in the world when it comes to the environment and where we are serious actors who take our environmental responsibility. Not all mining companies globally are like that. We know that from experience. I think that part of such a tightening up of mineral legislation should be that we are really protecting areas. There is an absolute limit to nature conservation areas where exploration is not worthwhile, because one will not be allowed to break and one will not even be allowed to prospect. I hope for a future review of mineral legislation in this regard. It is true that we do not have a major fossil industry in Sweden. But the important thing now is that we can decide that we should not get anyone on the day prices turn around. What if we could tell you before the climate summit in Paris that Sweden will not break coal, drill for oil or pick up fossil gas because it is yesterday's technology? Just as the Stone Age ran out because the stones ran out, it will stop extracting oil and gas because there is no longer oil and gas, but it will end because it is completely out of fashion and irresponsible to the climate. I hope for such initiatives. Then, I think, in the future, we need to discuss the military and the environment. I also believe that we have a military who wants to take environmental responsibility, but sometimes we are wrong. The liquid is an obvious example of the fact that military action has gone wrong.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-299	Madam President, I would like I would also like to thank you for the debate and to take on board the comments that have been made. The government has already announced an interest in looking at the rules dealing with protected areas and the possibilities in terms of whether the regulatory framework is fully relevant also in relation to some of the mineral rules. As I said, water issues are strongly on the agenda throughout the work on various types of activities that require permission. It also includes the mineral parts. Thank you for a good debate and, not least, for the strong support of Members of Parliament in strengthening the protection of drinking water in Sweden.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-302	Madam President, I would like Daniel Bäckström has asked Minister for Rural Affairs Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht whether the government intends to make changes to the current order in predatory policy. He has also asked what the government intends to do to ensure the active management of the wolf. The work within the government is so divided that it is I who should answer the questions. I would like to start by pointing out that the government believes that Sweden should have long-term viable strains of predators that provide biodiversity, contribute to achieving Parliament's environmental quality objectives and live up to EU law, while not significantly hindering domestic animal husbandry and taking socio-economic considerations into account. More interaction is needed between those affected by predatory policy and respect for both humans and predators. The government believes that predator management needs to be developed in order to achieve the environmental quality objectives and that contributions to measures to prevent and compensate damage to domestic animals caused by predators need to be increased. In the 2015 spring change budget, the appropriation used to pay compensation for wild game injuries increased by SEK 10 million, and the Government proposes in the 2016 budget proposal that the grant increase by another SEK 10 million per year to prevent conflicts around predators. It is my hope that the initiative will improve the situation regarding conflicts around predators. In order to deal with the domestic damage caused by large predators in a slightly longer perspective, the Government has commissioned the National Agricultural Agency to summarise and evaluate, by 15 December, existing knowledge of how predatory attacks can be prevented. In order to further develop predator management, the Government has commissioned the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to investigate what is required for the wolf population in Sweden to be considered as having favourable conservation status according to the Species and Habitats Directive and to explain how the socio-economics is affected by a wolf tribe that has favourable conservation status. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency sub-reported the assignment in October 2015. In the same month, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency also reported on the government's mission to investigate how protection hunting can be developed to meet the needs that currently exist given the increased wolf density in some areas. The government is now preparing the proposals in the accounts. Finally, an investigator has presented a mission to propose a transparent and legally secure process for review of the County Administrative Board's hunting decisions that are compatible with EU law and other international commitments. The government's intention is to ensure that decisions on hunting for wolf can be appealed to the court as early as this winter. The County Administrative Boards of Värmland, Örebro, Västmanlands, Dalarna and Gävleborg decided on 11 November 2015 that a total of 46 wolves will be licensed from 2 January to 15 February 2016. The background is that the previous government changed the hunting regulation as a result of the parliamentary approval of the bill A sustainable predator policy and then gave the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency an increased opportunity to delegate the right to decide on the protection and licensing hunt for large predators to the county administrative boards. In June 2015, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency delegated the right to decide on the hunting of wolves, bears and lynx to all county boards except the County Administrative Board in Gotland County and after wolverine to the county administrative boards in the northern and central predator management areas. Protection hunting is an important part of predator management, and it is a strength that decisions on protection hunting can be made regionally by the county administrative boards at the locations where protection hunting is needed. In October 2014, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency delegated the right to decide on the licensing of wolf to the county administrative boards in the central predator management area. Through the decision of the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to delegate the right to decide on protection and licence hunting, the county administrative boards have been given an increased mandate to decide on management measures. Sweden is part of the European Union, and we are affected by the decisions we take jointly within the European Union. We now have two infringement cases concerning wolf hunting. Infringement cases are that the European Commission is threatening to take a case against Sweden to the EU Court of Justice. One relates to the hunting of wolves and the European Commission considers that previous decisions on the pursuit of a licence are contrary to the Species and Habitats Directive. The second infringement case concerns access to justice in the area of hunting. Both infringement cases are now being handled within the government.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-308	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. This is the third interpellation I participate in on these issues – it's about predatory politics, and it's about the presence of wolves that are increasing around the country. According to the inventories, there were 320 wolves in the country during the 2013–2014 season. The inventory made for the 2014 – 2015 season showed that there were 415 wolves. Then there is the part on the Norwegian side, which provides the basis for the common Scandinavian tribe. Mainly there is the wolf in Central Sweden. It is about Värmland, Dalarna, Örebro, Dalsland, Västmanland, Sörmland and Uppland, but it is also available in more places. We know that for every rejuvenation the wolves also spread to more places in the country. In the last winter, a very active administration was carried out with license hunting where 44 wolves had to be felled. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency delegated decisions to the county administrative boards that assume their responsibilities and perform the task well in collaboration with organisations affected. As on several occasions before, the decision was appealed. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency rejected the appeal, and a legal review is now under way in the Supreme Administrative Court. The parliamentary decision of December 2013 was implemented and gained more and more support in the regions, the areas and among the people affected and living daily with the consequences of an increasingly widespread wolf tribe. This spring came a number of missions from the government that created great uncertainty and concern in the country about what will apply in the future. Many people no longer have confidence in the political system. After all the trips with law and news back and forth, security does not become very strong. Trust capital is slowing down and being reduced. When we talk about the value of increased dialogue and consensus, it is now rather the opposite. That is why the debate is extremely important. It affects so many interests, and there are so many people who face the different consequences of national objectives every day at local level. The extent and concentration of the wolf have greatly changed the living conditions of many people, not least in Värmland. During the autumn we have been able to see that difficult animal husbandry means that life patterns are further limited. If you dared to release the moose dog during the moose hunt in fields with wolf you could see them being attacked. Several were killed. There are documented recordings of how it is done when two wolves attack a single moose dog. In another team you could see how an elk calf was attacked by an individual wolf. The wolf felled the calf, and before the elk calf died the wolf began to eat on it. The examples are many, and we meet many injured moose. The elk strain is greatly reduced. We see this not least in the halved licensing awarded to many of the teams. Now the question is asked in the districts: What will be the outcome of the government's announced investigations?
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-315	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats have a positive attitude towards Sweden's hunting corps, which to a large extent has an invaluable competence and brings further knowledge of animals, nature and culture. Hunting is generally high, and game management generally works well. But there have been trolls in the possibility of a functioning game care. It's an investigation. It makes no sense how many investigations are advocated. The whole issue of the management of the predator tribes has entered a borderless circle. Everyone who is transparent on this issue understands that. The Social Democrats and the Green Party have now agreed to change back in the winter to the old system, i.e. that decisions on the hunting of wolves should be subject to appeal to a court – as if it is not already aggravating. We remember how the Administrative Court of Karlstad stopped the hunt for wolves in Värmland and Bro last January. The Court of Appeal's quick decision that the decision of the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency must not be appealed saved the necessary wolf hunt. The Minister talks in empty terms about the administration. She really doesn't say anything. One becomes enraged and sensuous at the tock, I say as a warming foreigner – angry and angry at such things, in Swedish. I still speak for many warmers because that's where they're most upset. What is the Minister's view on the hastyness of these permanent government decisions? When we could finally see a functional and less cumbersome process last year, where the wolf hunt could be carried out in accordance with decisions last winter, the Social Democrats and the Green Party now want to change back to the old system, i.e. that decisions on the hunting of wolves should be able to be appealed to the courts. It's a system that made hunting wolves impossible for a few years. It was quick to fill the license quota on wolf. The hunt was conducted with great discipline in a relatively professional way. It also shows that the wolf population is large enough to be regulated by hunting. What is the Minister's view of this constant suspension of government decisions? Is it good for the management of the wolf tribe?
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-321	Mr President, I would like to When the new predatory policy was adopted in the Parliament in 2013, the decision was supported by 87 per cent of the members in the vote. Only the Left Party and the Green Party stood out of this qualified majority. It was stressed that future wolf policy would also take into account the socio-economic consequences and impacts, i.e. the impact of wolf policy on people living and working in predatory areas. In my own constituency of Dalarna we have long experience of large predators. The bear tribe has passed 350 animals, and basically the entire county is covered by vargrevir. Thus Dalarna is one of the counties with the highest concentration of predators. It really affects the conditions for many people. This is the perspective I want to highlight in my speech. There is considerable political support for the view that predators have a justification in the Swedish fauna and provide added value in many respects. But it also shows that strong concentrations increase the problem considerably. It has a strong impact on people's everyday lives and reinforces how the government treats predatory policy, which creates even more questions. You create great concern in people who are affected in their everyday lives. Above all, we are talking about the lack of information, which creates uncertainty in many people. The so-called socio-economic effects must be taken into account. That people are affected must be given value in the debate. The different parts of the good life in rural areas are affected. The desire to create livelihoods and futures declines, and the mobile outdoor life does not attract to the same extent. The pleasure of moving in the forest and land changes to a feeling of always having to be on guard, and many no longer dare to pick berries and mushrooms. Often there is evidence of doubts about riding alone in the forest, and interest in hunting decreases. These are activities that have always been natural to life in the country. Serious is also the feeling of many owners who can no longer guarantee their domestic animals protection and security. This is often the animal owner's strongest feeling and driving force in his business. The attacks that take place, despite preventive efforts, give emotional signals in broad circles of animal owners – that one is not enough and cannot protect one's own animals. The Government's response showed that the Minister wants to increase compensation for injured and dead domestic animals, but a compensation in money does not compensate. What we see now touches the very soul of being a farmer and a keeper of animals. But we must also take into account a waning desire to keep domestic animals. What are the effects for the individual keeper and for the open landscape? I would like to address a few questions to the Government in response to her reply. It is bad enough that the government is actively trying to circumvent a parliamentary decision with 87 percent support and also an announcement on the same issue, which will hamper and delay sustainable and active predator management. What information does the government have to give to all people whose everyday lives are affected by predators in our country? In what way does the Minister take into account the socio-economic effects as you shape future predatory policy?
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-329	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for a dedicated debate on an issue that affects a great many people in our large, forest-tight country with its ever-growing predator tribes! There is talk of great uncertainty about what applies. I would like to say that this uncertainty has existed in Sweden for a long time. We've developed predator policy. This was done by the previous government, which also brought a predator bill to Parliament. However, there were parts there that were not yet ready in relation to our international commitments, not least in terms of how the conservation of large predators can take place in line with EU rules. I am committed to – the whole government is committed to – that we in Sweden should be able to develop this policy on the basis of our specific conditions. Then it is a rather bad strategy, I think, to put in place a policy that asks the European Court of Justice to decide on Swedish conditions. I do not believe that the European Court of Justice is basically the right place to decide on the Swedish predatory administration. I wanted to start by saying that. On to the questions, because it is quite clear that we can try to be even clearer about this. The basis for what the government has done, of course, is the Riksdag's decision on how the predatory administration should be conducted. This has evolved. I heard from a number of speakers here that it is also beginning to get into some parts, not least the regional allocation. Just as I explained quite extensively in the answer, the Swedish carnivore management and game management are based on a regionalised organisation. I think that is fundamentally extremely important and good. It is something that we want to further develop and clarify and provide good conditions so that it can be used even more strongly. What we have done on the part of the government is to follow up even better so that we have an up-to-date update on the situation of predators. The wolf in particular has been the focus of this debate. We now received a broad scientific basis from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency because the Swedish wolf tribe has a good conservation status with current conditions. One might think that it is scientific hair-splitting exactly how many wolves or exactly what conditions apply. However, in order for us to stand on a clear basis, not least in terms of our arguments against the European Union as to why we should have the right to do what we do in Sweden, it is quite important. I am pleased that this government has been able to investigate in depth and get a scientific basis for these assessments. I am glad that we do not go in and make a political assessment of what is good conservation status, because that is something that my party and I quite strongly oppose. A larger minority also did so in the previous Parliament. There we are. As I said, we have also received an account of how to further develop the protection hunt in order to better meet local conditions, and we will have a commission reported by the Swedish Board of Agriculture regarding the compilation and evaluation of further measures to reduce the risk of conflict between predators and domestic animals. These are precisely the socio-economic aspects that are at stake here. Will there be hunting this winter? Yes, as I explained in the answer, there are a number of licensing decisions this winter. They have been taken by the county administrative boards according to the current regulations. In the case of an appeal to a court, I may return to that question.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-342	Mr President, I would like to In the spring, I was able to see that some disagreements came from the government's parties. There were investigations that could show more, but now it feels as if you are more in agreement within the government about how the strategy is. The answer states that the government's intention is to ensure that decisions on the hunt for wolf can be appealed to the court as early as this winter. That is a clear indication of where we are going. In other words, it should be ensured that decisions on hunting for wolf can be appealed in court as early as this winter. This means, in practice, that the decisions that the county boards have now taken and that there should be licence hunting in some counties will in practice be able to be delayed, delayed or avoided. It will be just as it has been in previous winters when it was possible to appeal in several instances. If this goes to court, the signal is that in practice there will be no opportunities for hunting. Many interpret this answer. That's how I interpret it, too. There is an enormous amount of uncertainty built into this, although the Minister refers to the fact that decisions are taken on the basis of the current decisions and the order that the House has endorsed. Changing the order of decisions involves both protection hunting and licence hunting. Then we will come back to the system that existed before. That's why the Alliance government took such a clear stand and changed the order so that it could appeal only to the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency – to ensure that in practice it became an active administration. It is extremely important to clarify the government's perspective on time for winter. Is it before or after Christmas the dates of the license hunt enabling apply? And how does the Minister view the link with previous legal processes that have existed in this area? When it comes to the opportunities for many pet owners and breeders, including in the sheep industry, the forces, hopes and opportunities of each season change even if many measures are taken to prevent. You fence and do what you can on the basis of the guidelines set by the County Administrative Board. I know it myself, because I've been walking for weeks this summer, shutting down miles of sheep's net with electric wire, and I know what work it brings. I think it's going to help a limit. You can't always shut out the locat. We didn't make it this summer. A few weeks ago I noticed that a county administrative board in Sweden had reported a single sheep owner for animal cruelty after the wolf had repeatedly attacked and killed his sheep. Then there was no action taken. Is it the kind of measures that the government is seeking when it comes to strengthening the dialogue and trust between the individual animal owner and the authority representing the state? Is this a step that will develop our predatory policy? Instead, one can focus on how to reduce predatory pressure and provide the conditions for both animal owners and others to engage in their important industries.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-351	Mr President, I would like to The right to speak for small associations often has unclear grounds. A hundred members are required. It is ideologically-borne associations that have a clear list in an ideological direction and associations that defy all government decisions that contradict them, appeal or go into forest and land and sabotage. How does the Minister view sabotage of government decisions by such associations? It has been put into effect on several occasions, for example in Värmland. The policy of the Swedish Democrats is to strive for reduced conflicts and problems between predators and people in rural areas. All the large predators must be managed responsibly, and the combined predatory pressure must be maintained at reasonable levels throughout the country. Minister! Today it is not at reasonable levels. The concentration of predators is extremely disturbing, and people are upset – not only in Värmland but in large parts of Svealand. How does the Minister's government resolve this with an enhanced appeal court? I'd like to know. The management aims to keep the size of the predator strains at an appropriate level, when too large strains ultimately strike back at the predators themselves. So may the Minister understand. The wolf's reference value for a favourable conservation status shall be in accordance with the proposal for the lower limit of a sustainable predator policy for the minimum viable population prior to the issue of the licence hunt. That's 170. There was an interval of 170 - 270. Here the Swedish Democrats have a straight, clear and responsible line, unlike the government parties' aggravating and procrastination of the important management of predator concentration for the rural population, especially in western Svealand.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-358	Mr President, I would like to I note from the answer that the Minister for the Environment cannot give clear information on how an active predatory policy should be pursued, even in the next few months. Is there a license hunt or not? It would be appropriate in this debate to provide information on this. If we compare the entrance to this, there is a parliamentary decision that has been supported by 87 per cent in the vote. In addition, there is a rather recent announcement on the same issue. Now the government is planning to change predatory policy by issuing a regulation that changes the right of appeal. The government does so without going to Parliament. This is done by decision at a government meeting. We find it disrespectful. The Center Party takes these people's concerns very seriously because they are affected in their everyday lives, every day. The Minister's written reply states that there is a need for more interaction between those affected by predatory policy. What does the Minister mean? After all, we cannot even bring the parties together in a wolf committee. How does the Minister feel that the government's work has contributed to strengthening cooperation with those living in predatory areas and strongly influenced by government predatory policies?
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-361	Mr President, I would like to I can begin by answering the final questions. What we have done is that we have continued to develop a localised and regionalised carnivores and game management. We want to build on strengthening those elements. We believe that it is important to have a local and regional base throughout the management chain. We have also ensured that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency in its renewed and developed game management council has an intensified dialogue. Several of these issues have been discussed there. It sounds like the government's announcement that it should be possible to review hunting decisions in court, which is a right that is already registered in the EU and other international commissions that Sweden has taken up, would in itself decide whether or not there will be a licence hunt this winter. It is strange that we are discussing precisely on the question of wolf hunting whether such a legal instrument is a prerequisite for the enforcement and application of decisions. No other public service, as I know, is being discussed that the fact that we have legal certainty in itself determines whether the administrative decisions taken are also being implemented. Of course, we should have a legally secure system, in the same way as in other parts of public Sweden. If the government does not take the decision, we can very likely get a court order on it. I can say that this is the way forward, but above all it is important to note that the government has carried out an investigation that suggests how, with fewer bodies, with concentration in a court and with a focus on a legally secure decision-making process, we should implement the public decisions. It is just like other management arrangements. We're going to have a legal process. We are supposed to believe that our administrations are making the right decisions, decisions that also stand up in court. If they do not, the administration must be informed and its decisions amended in such a way as to comply with the acquis. I hope that the Swedish legislature will back up the principle that we should basically have legal certainty in the country. This means that decisions, if they are legally secure, are valid when they are tried in court. Otherwise, we need to adjust the systems so that we get decisions that are legal. Any other order would be weird. I agree that there has been a problem in the previous judicial review, i.e. that the instrument of review has been able to avoid the implementation of certain decisions. It is therefore better that, after the examination, we have a system in place in which we can have the rule of law tested and guaranteed before the decisions are implemented. It is the natural entry of the government that we should have legal certainty in all policy areas, as well as in the field of game management.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-367	Mr President, I would like to The Minister does not respond to what will be the practical consequence of the proposal mentioned in the reply. We know that, in practice, there will be major consequences in terms of the possibility of active management and licensing in the coming winter. The experience we have gained from previous years is that the appeals went on to the next stage and resulted in the decisions not being made when they succeeded in delaying the whole thing so that the dates of the stated hunt were passed. Since the Minister does not answer that question, but instead reflects on the importance of legal certainty – I also think it is important; our society is based on legal certainty – I would like to ask how the government and the minister intend to deal with Parliament's announcement of last spring, supported by a majority of the committee, regarding the new predatory policy decided by the Riksdag in 2013. It has an important role to play. It notes and confirms the decision taken. Then there is probably a good balance between achieving a favourable conservation status and taking into account the people who live and work in predatory areas. It also considers it urgent that the previously decided predatory policy is maintained and that a targeted, selective hunt for wolf is carried out. I think the order we have is working very well. I do not think that there is any reason to change the order of the courts, because that is one way of turning the policy into practical application with a different agenda so as to avoid what the 2013 decision is aimed at, that we can achieve results and manage the wolf in a sustainable way in the long term and so that it is also accepted locally.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-371	Mr President, I would like to The government responds to the announcements as usual. Sweden will be hunting for wolf. We have a large and increasing predatoric strain. The wolf tribe is bigger than in a long time. Hunting will be needed as an instrument to ensure that we get the balance between humans and animals that we need and that Parliament believes should be the guiding principle of predator policy, namely good management of predators, while taking into account that management takes place in the way best suited locally in Sweden. Then we shall avoid sending the question to the European Union in order for them to decide for us. That is why it is important for the government to ensure that we in Sweden have systems that meet not only our own legal certainty requirements but also EU requirements. We want to put in place a mechanism whereby a decision can be examined before the actual hunting season begins so that, once it is implemented, the decision is subject to legal certainty already in advance. I think it is a good order that increases clarity, reduces conflicts and can lead a step forward in a fairly conflict-filled issue for Sweden.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-373	Mr President, I would like to Jens Holm has asked me three questions: Besides, Rickard Nordin has asked me: Mr President, I would like to Sweden has long been working for a new test method for cars in the EU. Several follow-up of exhaust emissions have shown that diesel cars in particular have higher emissions of nitrogen oxides in real driving than in the formal test from which vehicles are type-approved from outside. In addition, the difference between test values and actual emissions has increased over the years, partly as a result of the technological development of cars. The work on the new test method covers several complex technical issues as well as the timing of the introduction of mandatory requirements. The Swedish Transport Agency participates actively in the Commission's working group, which aims to introduce the new test method from September 2017, so-called RDE, real driving emissions. The Swedish position comprises three focus areas. First of all, we want the exhaust gas tests to be carried out with on-board measurement systems to complement today's tests in laboratories, the new RDE test method. Secondly, we want the cold test, the low temperature exhaust test, to be as extensive as the hot test and to be applied to diesel cars. Thirdly, we want the possibility of independent post-controls of exhaust emissions to be strengthened in the regulatory framework. With regard to the issue of penalties and sanctions for vehicle models with incorrect emissions, the EU regulatory framework says that it is the approval authority of the Member State that granted the EU approval for the car model that will take action, if necessary withdraw the approval, to ensure that the car model complies with the original approval. Volkswagen's cars are approved in Germany. The German approval authority KBA has also decided to withdraw the relevant car models. What the Swedish approval authority, the Swedish Transport Agency, can do in this case is to inform KBA if they find deficiencies and request that measures be taken to correct them. It is also the role of the Swedish Transport Agency to ensure that the changes decided by KBA are implemented on the Swedish market. However, it is not possible under the EU acquis for a minister to decide on a total stop for the sale of certain car models. The information available in the media that Switzerland and Italy would have imposed a ban on sales of certain Volkswagen models is not correct. Under the EU acquis, a Member State may temporarily suspend the registration of vehicles for a period of three months provided that a defect with the type-approval is suspected. However, such a ban does not have much effect as this fraud applies to older vehicles. Other car manufacturers are treated in the same way as Volkswagen. Each year, the Swedish Transport Agency conducts a post-control of a number of cars to monitor exhaust emissions. In the case of deviations from the approval, the Swedish Transport Agency may, where the type-approved car model is used, require that the car model be withdrawn and corrected or require the approval authority that has granted the approval to take action. The question of conformity factors is a very technical one. Conformity factors are a measure to compare the results of the existing test method in laboratories with the new test method in real traffic. The new test method shall be introduced in two stages. In view of the meeting of the Technical Committee on 28 October, the Commission proposed that the conformity factor should be 1,6 in steps 1 and 1,0 plus an uncertainty factor in stage 2. The reason why the factor must be higher in step 1 is that it is only in step 2 that the cars will be equipped with the exhaust gas cleaning equipment needed to be able to clean the exhaust emissions adequately. The compromise finally agreed by the Committee at the meeting was to set the conformity factor at 2.1 in steps 1 and 1.5 in step 2. The decision was taken by a large majority. Several Member States said that the Commission's proposal for a stage 1 factor is technically very difficult to meet because the time has passed without anything happening on this issue. For new models, step 1 already applies from September 2017, and step 2 will be introduced in 2019. The new test method does not tighten the exhaust gas requirements. Excess requirements are decided in a regulation through the ordinary legislative procedure. However, with the new test method, the difference between the test values of the car in a laboratory cycle and the actual emissions will be reduced, which means real emission reductions and improved air quality.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-386	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Minister for Climate and Environment for the answer to my two interpellations with Rickard Nordin on the same subject. I think this is an important issue to go into depth with. As a politician, I felt cheated a few months ago, when Volkswagen's large-scale and systematic pollution fraud was exposed. It is about 11 million cars in the world, most of them in Europe. Only here in Sweden, it is island over 200 000 cars rolling around in our streets with significantly higher emissions of at least nitrogen oxides than what has been stated to us politicians. I also believe that all consumers, our authorities and others involved feel completely fooled. We simply cannot accept that. If now the world's second largest car manufacturer has been prepared to take such great risks, are there other car manufacturers out there who are also cheating on emission data? In my interpellation, I refer to a report that came from two environmental organisations, which carried out an independent test of the emission values of twelve different cars. It was noted that eleven of the twelve cars had higher NOx emissions than the law. It's very troubling. I have a supplementary question to the Minister for Climate and the Environment: has the government taken up this issue and allowed some form of independent control of other car manufacturers' models? Has the government done it, or have you commissioned it for any authority or similar? Or have you called in the car manufacturers, just as you did with Volkswagen's management, to ensure that other manufacturers do not also cheat? Then I would also like to know something about the new testing methods announced. I have to say that what the Minister describes is very technical. They mean that from 2017 we can expect that there will be new methods that will reflect real emissions and not the emissions that take place under ideal conditions in a laboratory environment. Is the Minister satisfied with the methods introduced gradually from 2017 to 2019, as I understand it? I would also like to ask the Minister whether it would not be better if independent texts were made by third parties, in other words that it is not the manufacturers themselves who test the cars, but that it is an independent body that does the tests. Then, I think, once and for all, suspicions could be dismissed that manufacturers can continue to cheat on emission testing. I would like to know what the Minister thinks about that. I also think that the issue raised by Rickard Nordin from the Center Party is essential. I think he himself will continue drilling in it. However, if it has really been the case that the Commission has had a proposal for a test method on the table that has been more robust and sharper while Sweden has been working for another method that is less robust, I do not think that is acceptable.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-393	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It is good that it is now real driving that will determine the emissions to be reported. This is not, in fact, a new issue. You sometimes get the feeling that this came up only after the Volkswagen scandal, but it is something that you started working on considerably earlier. Then the question became more public and known with the scandal, and that is something that is good. We know today that actual NOx emissions are on average 400 % above the limit value in force since 2014. This is because the current test is performed in the laboratory. It doesn't reflect reality. It's too bad. Then it's great to change those tests. The current emission limit – now there will be a lot of figures and quite technical – is 80 milligrams per kilometre. The Euro 6 rules are called them. They came into force in 2014, but they were already set in 2006, 2007. It's eight-year-old rules. It is specified in the legislative text that that limit value shall apply to actual driving. So this is nothing new. It was now the case that the Commission presented a proposal to a technical committee. It was about allowing the limit value to increase by 60% during a transition period until 2019 and then allowing a maximum of 20% above the limit value. It is based on a proposal made by the Commission with its available technical expertise, the best that could be obtained. It was about justifying what was a statistical margin of error. The measurement values and methods are not always perfect. Then it was reasonable to say: 80 milligrams per kilometre, and so you get 20 percent above it for the measurement methods to work. This is the factor of conformity that I am talking about. There the minister and the department have completely misunderstood the question, because they talk about this being so that you can compare new and old test results. It's all wrong. It is a statistically secured margin used to obtain correct values. And the decision that has now been taken by the Technical Committee means that the new test first allows 110 % extra and then 50 % extra. It's high above the legal limit. If there is a speed limit of 90 kilometres per hour on a road, you do not allow 50 percent extra. This is what you get out of the air. That's how I see it. As the Minister says, this is a technical issue. It is a very technical issue. Then it should also remain a technical issue. Instead, it has been politicised here to water down the decisions that exist. I am curious: What was Sweden's position in the negotiations? Why did they go from 60 percent extra to 110 percent extra and from 20 percent extra to 50 percent extra? These are pretty big changes. We're talking about almost 100 percent in increases. What conformity factor, i.e. the margin of error in the measurement methods, does one think is justified? And what is the basis for the changes to the Commission's proposal? This was the best available technical expertise. What other technical expertise do we have that the Commission does not have? Don't you think you've had quite a long time to think about this? Nevertheless, it is since 2006, 2007. There are also completely different values that we are talking about. In the United States, for example, it is almost half the value that exists in the EU. Much of the technology is available. Moreover, it is not very expensive if one actually chooses to comply with the legislation. But, again, what was Sweden's position in the negotiations? What statistical margin of error – that's what is the conformity factor – does the government consider appropriate? And how do you motivate it? On what studies and factors is it based? Or has the 50 percent been taken out of the air?
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-403	Mr President, I would like to Yes, there are many of us who are extremely upset and perhaps initially quite surprised that a large German car brand such as Volkswagen could so clearly cheat on something that should be the most important consumer information of all car brands, that is, what emissions you actually have. However, we should distinguish between the issues. It is about the need for the EU regulatory framework. It is completely EU-sanctioned. What values do we allow for cars in the EU? This is not something that Sweden decides on its own, but we must have a common market here. Then there are the measures and sanctions that exist when operators cheat in this system. As I explained in the answer, there are fairly clear methods of sanctioning. You pull in car models. You can stop sales. That is not really what has been the issue precisely with regard to nitrogen oxide emissions, because there have been older models that are no longer in the first place at the marketing stage. So there is a system of sanctions, but, of course, this fraud will further test whether that system of sanctions needs to be sharpened. Then comes the second question, which both interpellants are really most interested in. Can we push the process in the EU that has now taken a few steps forward, partly because Sweden, together with some other countries, has been pushing for a very many years to get a system where it is real emissions that indicates the benchmark value rather than the theoretical laboratory environments? That's where we've come a long way, I'd say. I want to be clear to Jens Holm that, as I explained, the possibility of independent post-controls of exhaust emissions needs to be strengthened in the regulatory framework. That's Sweden's position. That's what we're running. This was not the subject of the Technical Committee. It was a completely different committee. However, we have had a lot of dialogue with Commissioners who are now also in favour of going that way. It sounds like that in their oral statements to us Environment Ministers, for example, at one of the latter Councils. Not least, this scandal has resulted in this work in the EU being forced. We're not there yet. We do not have independent post-controls by other actors. We have in Sweden for a long time post-checks of a number of cars. It's pretty deep post-checks. That is what the Swedish Transport Agency is doing, which I also explained in the answer. There we have seen, and reported to the other EU authorities, a discrepancy between what is the type-approved emission value and the real emission value. This is why Sweden has also pushed for this to come in and for the regulatory framework to be strengthened. Then comes the technical question of how fast and how much you can strengthen it. There's the problem. We do not have US legislation on a European basis. We have legislation based on emission values, in which type approval is linked to the theoretical laboratory test. With regard to the Technical Committee – Rickard Nordin presented the factors in an educational way, I have to say – it was about ensuring that laboratory tests are not enough. You also have a relationship with the real tests. Then we'll reduce the discrepancy. We don't allow such a big discrepancy between these values. Then there is a technical discussion which is the task of the Technical Committee. How close can we end this? Can real values and the theoretical cycle be exactly the same? No, it came to the conclusion that they could not be, not really so fast and not yet, but in 2019 it is a discrepancy of 1.5, as a conformity factor.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-412	Mr President, I would like to Yes, it seems clear that there is a need to continue to push in the EU to really be robust tests and to be tests that reflect reality and not laboratory conditions and that they should be put in place as soon as possible. If it is going to be as long as 2019, it actually feels very unsatisfactory, I have to say. I think it is good that Sweden is pushing for it to be opportunities for post-control by independent authorities. I would rather see that we had a system where they did the whole tests – of course it should be financed by the industry, because it is the industry's responsibility to be able to provide information on the emission values. But if you strengthen the possibility of post-control of industrial tests, it might be quite good anyway. I think it was good that the Minister for Climate and the Environment called Volkswagen's leadership in Sweden after the scandal had been revealed. You get a little curious, because you didn't attend the meeting yourself, what was said and what demands the minister made to the company. I can at least ask questions and hope for answers: how has the dialogue continued? Does the government still have any question marks against Volkswagen? What are your requirements for the company? Then I have another question. It applies to other car manufacturers. I think the question is really relevant and topical. If a large company can cheat in this way, it is not possible to get away from wondering what is going on with the other car manufacturers. What is the government doing on this issue? I want answers to that. In my interpellation, I refer in any case to a report which has concluded that other car manufacturers have also cheated on emission values. I would also like to highlight another dimension of this issue, and it concerns the negotiations on the trade and investment agreement with the United States, the TTIP as it is called. There is a fundamental principle that one should only test in one place and then it should apply automatically throughout the whole area of trade. The principle of mutual recognition should be applied, so if a test is carried out in the EU, it should automatically be approved in the United States. As the negotiations go right now, I am concerned that all the different test methods that exist are accepted. There is a risk that the industry will turn to the fastest and easiest tests, perhaps at the expense of more robust and ambitious tests. Sometimes the test requirements are higher in the US and sometimes higher in the EU. The obvious entry into the EU negotiations must be that only the environmentally robust tests should apply. Then I have a lot of comments on this agreement overall. I question whether we really need such an agreement. It would be interesting to know whether the Minister has any thoughts on this and whether there are negotiations across the Atlantic on the question of testing methods.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-420	Mr President, I would like to I noticed that I did not receive an answer to any of my questions from the Minister, so I intend to repeat them: what was Sweden's position in the negotiations in the Technical Committee? What conformity factor, i.e. statistical margin of error, was considered justified? And what were these assumptions based on? The decision that the government is now signing means that we can have 110 percent more emissions than the rules say until 2020 and then 50 percent more than the rules say. It is also twice as much as the Commission proposed, which is already 20% more than what the legislation we actually have says. It was also these figures that the best technical expertise advocated. The Minister writes in his reply that this leads to real emission reductions and improved air quality. Yes, in relation to the current situation, but if you compare it with the Commission's proposal, it is a significant deterioration. We're getting worse and worse. We're getting worse. We're getting worse. If the Commission's proposal had been heard, would the reductions not have been even greater? Which of the Commission's calculations are unrealistic? I agree with the Minister that we do not have the laws of the United States, but we set limit values that are twice as high as the limit values set by the United States. Then the Minister, Sweden and the EU now want to set additional rules with double the limit values. The fact that the United States has strong rules shows that it is actually possible. This is a question of will. A little conspiratorially, I wonder whether the real reason for the need for a higher factor in step 1 and then a rather high factor in step 2 is that the car industry has not tightened up. You haven't done your homework. You've had eight years, and now you're going to have another five or six years. As far as I am concerned, the laws and rules on limit values that we adopt are also those that should apply. If the technical committee postpones this further year, then nothing will change. It gets a little better, but it could have been much better. Why, then, has it not supported the Committee's original proposal, the one put forward by the European Commission? I thought that Sweden would be a pioneer country in environmental issues. This does not signal at all the action of the government in the Technical Committee. On the contrary, several environmental organisations from Brussels, with well-informed sources, report that Sweden, Italy, Spain and the Eastern countries have been the ones who have slowed down the negotiations and made sure that we have worse factors than those proposed by the Commission. Sweden has therefore rather been one of the countries backing into the future here. I think that is very worrying and something I would like to hear what the Minister thinks of. Of course, we have pushed in an original phase to get to real tests and so on. But when it really is, and we are going to sit down and produce the statistical margins of error, the government is doubling them, too. I wonder why. It makes no sense for me to sit in the Environmental Objectives Committee and talk about air protection issues when the government acts quite differently in Brussels. One of the largest sources of nitrogen oxides is on the transport side. Here we are undermining our decisions and our opportunities, because we are making such an incredibly worse proposal than what the Commission has put forward. I repeat my three questions: What is Sweden's position in the negotiations? What statistical margin of error does the government think is relevant, and what is it based on? What is the reason for setting the limits that have been set and recommended in the Technical Committee?
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-430	Mr President, I would like to To begin with, I am happy to agree that Sweden has been driving for a long time to get to tests that reflect the real driving. It's important. We have come several steps on the way, and we can see that these steps are important, not least from the point of view of air quality. I fully agree with Mr Nordin, who points out that the emissions of diesel cars are a crucial factor in the air quality of urban traffic and that we need to make real reductions in emissions. This was also the reason why Sweden was in a rather hurry. We were not in Brussels to decide that this would be postponed year after year. Had the Technical Committee not reached a conclusion, which was close to not doing because the Commission's proposal had no support whatsoever from a number of Member States, this would not have started until September 2017, and thus we would not have had real emission reductions. Then you can stand in this Chamber and wish for gold and green forests and think that we should have had an even sharper decision. Sure, you can discuss that. But that there will be real emission reductions in place in the diesel car fleet already in September 2017 I am defending as Minister for Climate and Environment. When it comes to questions about other car companies and other car models, the government is closely following what is emerging. As I said, the Swedish Transport Agency always performs post-checks, so we have fairly good statistics on and clearly state which discrepancies exist between real driving and the theoretical type-approval values. This is something which, not least, the type-approval authorities in Germany are following. There they are now working on a model to test and expose cheating like the technical Volkswagen fraud. Of course, we hope that they will apply this model to other models, so that we can ensure that the suspicion that this is a widespread fraud also among other car operators can be dismissed. I believe that this is important not least for the market, for consumers and for car owners' confidence in the information and that it is relevant. Authorities are reforming and linking different types of incentive structures to, among other things, emissions, but not emissions of nitrogen oxides to the same extent as climate emissions. However, several of the regulations are based on the fact that the information that comes from the car operators is correct, which is extremely important. The Government with the Swedish Transport Agency as an expert authority is closely following the European work on developing the test methods that will reveal if there are more car manufacturers who have cheated. We are also following any further information that emerges from the quite a number of legal processes that the Volkswagen scandal has led to. With regard to the honourable Member's question about the statistical margin of error and its technical relevance, I think it is difficult to politicise so far. The question of how quickly we can introduce further cleaning processes or better engine cleaning on different car models, I would have to refer to the expert authorities and the experts on the technical committee. Politically, it was important that the Technical Committee came to a decision. If it had not done so, we would not have had better order of the tests in the EU by September 2017. It had taken many more years. From the Swedish side, we are keen to take the major steps forward that we are now making with reducing emissions from diesel cars and improving air quality.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-438	Madam President, I would like It would have been great if the Minister for Climate and Environment had also been there. I have a couple of supplementary questions, and that is my last speech. I know that the German Transport Agency, KBA, has quite recently decided to examine a large number of, about fifty, models to see if the emissions correspond to what has been stated in laboratory tests. It is something similar to what I think needs to be done in Sweden as well. The Minister could take such an initiative. I'm afraid it's just the tip of the iceberg that we see now. It is perhaps not only Volkswagen who has cheated on its emissions. Will the Minister take the initiative to review other models here in Sweden? The Minister said earlier that Transportstyrelsen does regular post-checks of different car models. Then I am surprised how our responsible authority has been able to miss Volkswagen's cheating, if they do such regular post-checks. Something's obviously flawed. More must therefore be done. I asked the Minister earlier what further demands the Minister has made on Volkswagen. Has the Minister asked more questions and demanded more information? Or does the minister feel completely satisfied with the meeting earlier? There are a lot of further questions to which I at least want answers. I would like to thank the Minister for Climate and Environment and Mr Rickard Nordin of the Center Party for this important debate. We'll have to keep looking at this.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-443	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister, who has now also appeared in the Chamber, and Jens Holm for an interesting debate. It would be interesting if the Minister could clarify whether the government sees the conformity factor that we were talking about as a statistical margin of error. What does it really look like? This is the technical aspect that has been taken into account. That is how the Commission presented it. What is the government's view of these factors? It is problematic when politics enters and begins to question technical aspects and experts' technical calculations. We do not question the quotas in the electricity certification system that the Energy Authority presents in the same way or other calculations that we also need to rely on. I'm worried if you go in and politicize the way the government seems to have. The Minister thinks it is more important to have a bad agreement that will come into effect quickly than a good agreement that will be postponed for the future for a few months. I think it is much more important that we have a good and substantial agreement. Then it is important not to rush unnecessarily. If this is a progressive line, as the Minister said before we took a break for group meetings, why were there no other countries that are normally progressive on environmental issues that were pushing this? Why did Italy, Spain and the Eastern countries follow the same line as the government? Why do all environmental organizations report that it was the government that was the bad guy? If only the government thinks that it is pursuing a progressive line, I think it says more about the reality of the government than about reality.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-449	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank you for the debate, even if it took time and we had a break. As I said, cheating in all sectors is unacceptable. But when cheating is about emissions in the car industry, it affects people's health. That is totally unacceptable. It is important that the sanctioning systems in the EU for this market work, that car corrections are made and that it is made clear whether car models other than Volkswagen are involved. This story is not over. It is followed by all governments. The Swedish Government is following it closely for the Swedish market. We will certainly come back to the consequences of the cheating that has been discovered so far on Volkswagen. The second and greater issue raised by the inter-pellants is that we have finally got the European Union going in terms of tightening up the system for emissions from cars. We have had an approval system that will reduce the gap to real emissions in the future. Sweden and a number of other countries have been in the process of getting such a system in place. We have been one of the countries that has carried out post-controls and who have noted that there has been a great discrepancy between the theoretical cycle and the real emissions. V i has pushed for this to get started. I do not agree with Rickard Nordin that it is better to have stricter rules at some point in the future than to tighten them up now, in a first step. We can tighten them up again. Several decisions were to be taken by the Technical Committee to enable the new system of real emissions targets to be put into operation. It has been clear in the autumn that without those decisions it would have been a long time before the next step could be taken. It was therefore important for the various technical experts to arrive at a common understanding of the technically correct conformity factor.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-456	Madam President, I would like Jens Holm has asked me five questions about the need for measures to achieve the environmental objective of Living Forests. Let me begin by saying that forests are a national asset to be managed in a sustainable way. The Government has a clear ambition that protected forests should not be harvested and that environmental considerations in forestry should increase. The first question that Jens Holm has asked is whether I intend to take the initiative for a review to be carried out shortly in order to strengthen environmental considerations in forestry legislation. The second question is whether I intend to work towards examining in the directives on the revision of the Forest Protection Act the possibility of including the provisions of the Forest Protection Act in the Environmental Code. The Government announced the review of the Forest Protection Act in the Budget Bill in autumn 2015. The Government is now preparing the question of the review of forestry legislation and intends to complete the investigation shortly. Jens Holm also asks whether I intend to take measures to ensure that the species protection regulation is applied in forestry. The environmental code applies in parallel with the forestry legislation, as well as the regulations provided for under the environmental code, such as the species protection regulation. The Government considers it important that the provisions relating to forestry are applied. It is the responsibility of the operator to comply with the rules and the responsibilities of the regulatory authorities to follow up on this. The fourth question is whether I intend to promote a moratorium, an interim decision, on the cessation of residues in core values until a strategy is developed on how to protect them. The Government believes that valuable forests should be protected and that environmental considerations should increase. The Government has a clear ambition that protected forests should not be harvested but should be preserved, either through formal protection or voluntary provisions. The Government has therefore proposed a substantial increase in the appropriation 1:16 Protection of valuable nature by SEK 250 million in the spring change budget and by an additional SEK 340 million for 2016 and beyond. In addition, the appropriation 1:2 Operations for forestry within the expenditure area 23 is increased by SEK 100 million for 2016 and onwards for the protection of valuable forests. I would also like to point out that landowners make important efforts by voluntarily setting aside valuable areas for nature conservation. The Government is closely following the work of forestry to incorporate in the practical work the environmental objectives developed in the Dialogue on Environmental Protection project. The last question Jens Holm asks is whether I intend to work towards the sustainable management of state-owned forests without the harvesting of cores. The Government believes that state forestry should be an example for sustainable forestry. The state is a major player in forestry, where Sveaskog and the National Property Board are the largest actors. I assume that state actors fully live up to the high environmental ambitions and are forerunners of sustainable forestry. I would like to conclude by saying that forestry is of great importance for achieving environmental objectives through the conservation and sustainable use of forests. The forest is also of great importance for outdoor life. The Government intends to closely monitor forestry's environmental work in order to achieve environmental objectives. The Government considers that further measures are needed to promote varied forestry. The Government believes that Sweden needs a long-term forest strategy – a national forest programme – that optimises forest opportunities to contribute to the sustainable development of Swedish society.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-467	Madam President, I would like As you know, we have 16 environmental quality objectives in Sweden. According to the forecast, 14 out of 16 environmental quality objectives will not be achieved. The government itself states that the decisions and measures taken are firm. So we will not achieve most of our environmental objectives. One of the environmental objectives is living forests. In Sweden, most of the country's surface area is covered by forests. Unfortunately, most of these forests are planted. However, there are still significant areas of old natural forest with a high biodiversity and a high level of species wealth for both animals and plants. It is very important that we can protect these forests. We are usually quite good at fighting for the rain forest in South America not to be cut down or tropical forests in Indonesia not to be burned up. But at home there are also old, important natural forests. We in the Left Party believe that there is currently no reasonable balance in the Forest Protection Act. It says, for example, that nature considerations should be balanced against production interests. In short, it means you can cut down the forest. It is good to hear from the Minister for Climate and the Environment that the Forest Protection Act will be reviewed and that such a review will come shortly. However, I would like to remind you that that decision goes back almost a year. Such an investigation should already have been carried out so that a concrete legislative proposal could now have been put on the table of Parliament. The Minister says that several measures are needed for more sustainable forestry. That's what I'm the first to sign. But I wonder what the Minister is thinking in this regard. We in the Left Party would like to see more investment in clean forestry, i.e. not making total fellings and cutting down every tree. Instead, we should have a more selective and more gentle forestry system that removes the trees that are ripe to be cut down. Then the rest of the forest remains. Would specific investments in clean forestry, so-called continuum forestry, be something that the Minister can imagine? It is good that the Minister says that the state-owned forest must take on a great deal of environmental responsibility. I am thinking in particular of Sveaskog, which is a state-owned company. Is the Minister prepared to change the owner's directive to Sveaskog so that the instruction becomes much clearer when it comes to upgrading nature considerations in Sveaskog's forestry? Perhaps you should focus more clearly on clean forestry than you have done in the past.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-474	Madam President, I would like I did not really intend to go up in this debate. But I think the question raised by Jens Holm is quite interesting. I note that we have different views on forestry, the Left Party and the Swedish Democrats. Jens Holm asks a number of questions. They deal with environmental concerns in forestry legislation. He also highlights the environmental code and the species protection regulation. I think that is interesting, and I would like to hear a little more about what the Minister for the Environment thinks about the Species Protection Regulation. It is about the Species and Habitats Directive. The directive on the protection of species means that forestry would in practice be prohibited if strict compliance with it was achieved. It contains a ban on disturbing birds or damaging their breeding grounds, wherever they are located. The implementation of the directive into Swedish legislation – mainly through the Species Protection Regulation – goes far beyond what the directive says, especially when it comes to birds. In addition, there is a strong criticism of how Sweden as a whole has worked with reporting to the EU on the Species and Habitats Directive. It has largely been managed through Artdatabanken and through SLU without any transparency from other actors. The report on the basis of which the evaluation was carried out has not even addressed the nearby coniferous forest and its favourable conservation status, despite the fact that these areas are already protected. We believe that, in this case, consideration can be given to whether the Swedish reporting of the Species and Habitats Directive actually follows the environmental objective of Living Forests. My question to the Minister relates to the question put by Jens Holm: how does my island look at the species protection regulation, and how does the Minister view its practical application?
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-482	Madam President, I would like Thank you for an interesting debate. Jens Holm asked some supplementary questions to which I will try to answer. I think that the answer was very clear in terms of the Government's ambitions and the work to get a strong and adequate protection for protected Swedish forests. It can only be talk, but if resources are set aside and the authority is given the opportunity to do so, something happens in reality too. I share Jens Holm's picture, that there is a problem around the Swedish forest, and that is that there is a lot of planted forest where species diversity is more affected. At the same time, there are large cores of value that need to be given extra consideration and to ensure that they are protected. This in itself is a support to get the forest as a whole to deliver, not just timber. All forests are well with this biological context. Then there are other great values with the forest. I mentioned outdoor life, hunting, berry picking and, not least, the large ecosystem services in terms of cleaning water and air. The forest thus has many values, and Sweden is a great forest nation also on the industrial side, and all these things we must include in the discussion. From the point of view of environmental considerations, there are forests that are more valuable than others, and there the protection of forests is very important. That is why the government has made such a clear increase in ambition to protect the forests that have protection values. It will be a strengthening of the entire forestry sector, as we see it. Yes, there are more methods of use than the kalhyggesbruk method. They're growing up, what I see. I think it is good to have a development in forestry based on what values the forest owner particularly wants to develop, but also what values society at large emphasises. I welcome the development of the methods of use. Of course, different user practices also have different environmental consequences. As far as Sveaskog's work and holdings are concerned, I can see that we have good experiences. The previous government already used Sveaskog's work to strengthen the protection of valuable forests in Sweden by offering exchange land. It is not always the case that a forest owner wants to be paid to be able to set aside land for protection; the forest owner may want a more productive forest land to work with, and then replacement land is an incredibly important factor. It is a way to use state resources within Sveaskog in a wise and sustainable way. With regard to the more legalistic principles that were raised regarding the relationship with the Species Protection Regulation, I do not think that the time is sufficient to go into the details. I call on the honourable Member to write an interpellation or ask about that, so that I can reply a little more in detail.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-491	Madam President, I would like I would like to have clarified from the Minister for Climate and Environment whether the review of forestry legislation should be done in order to improve forestry legislation, i.e. improve from my perspective. Differently put: Is the aim to strengthen environmental and natural considerations in forestry? Is this the mission you're going to give this investigator? I am also thinking of such things as how forestry is conducted in concrete terms. It is very common to live near a forest and use it but is not a forest owner. You're out jogging, walking with the dog, picking berries or just being in the woods because it's a fantastic room to be in somehow. When the forest company decides on felling, many may be horrified. There is sometimes no consultation, nothing, but when you come back next time, the whole forest can be cut off. I wonder if the Minister thinks it would be good to strengthen the requirements for, for example, mandatory consultation prior to felling. At present, the forest companies are making a notification to harvest an area. If the responsible authority has nothing to recall within six weeks, it may be removed. Today, there are very few demands on fellings from a social and environmental perspective. That whole area should be strengthened, I think it feels like. I wonder if it's in those lines the minister's thinking. Åsa Romson talked about the voluntary areas for forest protection. Voluntaryly set aside areas can be very important, but it has been seen in the evaluations that a problem is often that they are lacking in the long-term. They may be protected for a while, but then you want to cut down that forest, and then you can trade it for another area instead. It also becomes very fragmented, with plots of protected areas. I believe that there is a need for a little clearer specifications on the part of the state. I wonder if the Minister is in those thoughts as well. Can this be accommodated within the framework of the investigation to be carried out? Our old forest, our natural forest, has stood for hundreds of years. It's always been there. It is in these areas that the greatest biodiversity exists. This forest is actually comparable to the tropical forest that we want to protect in Latin America. These natural forest areas have very high natural values. I wonder whether the Minister is prepared to take a decision to stop logging in these areas with unprotected cores, as I asked in my interpellation. I think that is the most accessible way we have at the moment to protect these totally unique forests, which are becoming fewer and fewer. Today you can actually cut them down. I wonder whether the Minister is prepared to take any concrete initiative to stop fellings in unprotected cores of value.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-496	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for the non-sensical answer. I also want to thank you for the tip. Of course, we can put an interpellation and have a bigger debate. I asked the question when I thought it would be quite interesting to hear about this and because Jens Holm raised it. But how does the Minister for the Environment view the Species Directive and its application from a general perspective? It would be interesting to have an answer to that question. Jens Holm highlights some issues regarding forestry legislation. It's also quite interesting, because we have this investigation that's going to start. How does the Minister for the Environment view this? It would be very interesting to hear what the entry values are, to use a certain Prime Minister's words. After all, I have to protest a little against Jens Holm's statements. Of course we have very different world views. Who really owns the forest? Who's taking responsibility? It is not the person who has his jogging trip or goes out picking berries and so on. After all, someone owns the forest. Ownership is something we must adhere to in this country. I think that's incredibly important. Nor should it be forgotten that about 50% of the forest is owned by private forest owners and that we have almost 31% protected forest today. The question is rather how you look at the forest, if you look at the forest as frozen in time, as some kind of frozen moment, a mirror of reality, or if you see that the forest is actually something that develops in a great event, where some trees die and new trees grow. That is how we have managed our forests. After all, most of our forests in Sweden are so-called peasant forests and cultural forests. As I said, I thank you very much, and it would be interesting to have answers to the questions.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-501	Madam President, I would like I will try to answer some of the supplementary questions. One of them concerned the forthcoming review or investigation of the Forest Protection Act. It is, of course, difficult to state the exact scope before the government has presented the directives for future investigation, but it comes in connection with the directive. But, of course, part of this is based on a clear analysis of a number of issues that have been raised, which are related to the need to strengthen environmental considerations in forestry. These issues need to be analysed so that proposals can be made in order to move forward. Of course it is about some of those issues. The question of forestry development and coherence with environmental objectives, not least Living forests, is greater than the fact that one could hope for a single study. This probably needs to be seen in a larger context with more suggestions on how to work, not least of course with the development of forestry methods. I also pointed out the dialogue with the industry, which has begun with our initiative but can be strengthened. Jens Holm asked about concrete initiatives to protect the cores and the forest remains of a more or less, by Scandinavian standards, man-made forest. They're pretty small. Most are affected in some way. But there are those who, at least, have not been really cut off in the past and are therefore extremely valuable in their diversity of species. The concrete initiative taken by the government, also thanks to good budgetary cooperation with the Left Party, is to ensure that there are resources to assess and agree on protection. You can't just go in there and say you can't fell. Who will make that assessment? Resources are needed to assess and agree on protection. These resources now provide the government to a much greater extent than it has done in the past. If you starve those criteria, you don't know what cores you're working on. It is a system that must be made to work. It is not possible without resources and resources to provide protection. It is not possible or reasonable under current legislation that an individual forest owner should take full responsibility for protecting larger areas of valuable forest that cannot be used with normal farming methods. That's the law. That is why we need resources to protect more forests if we are to achieve the environmental objective of living forests. I believe that there is an extremely strong popular basis for this. It is definitely the case that Sweden is a forest country in soul and heart. This applies not only to all the Swedish families who themselves are forest owners but in many parts of our society. These are issues that are very important to society as a whole.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-508	Madam President, I would like This has been an important debate. The forest is crucial to a lot of things. Perhaps the most important thing is what the Minister for Climate and the Environment says. The forest is in the soul and heart of Swedes. I really think that's the case. They feel for themselves when they go out into the woods that they belong there. That is something we want to protect. There are a few more things I want answers to. The first quite obvious question I forgot to ask. When will the announced investigation on the Forest Protection Act come? It is in the Minister's reply to me that it will be here shortly. Of course, I want to know what soon means. I would also like to send clearly to the Minister the importance of other forestry methods. I don't think I got a very clear answer there. At present, total felling, kalhyggen, is the norm in Swedish forestry, i.e. the mill. There we must be more creative in order to find other methods of use. Like Åsa Romson, I think it is a good thing that we now have much more money in the budget for the protection of forests. It's the biggest bet on I don't know for how long. But it's not just about money. It is also about laws and what demands we make as decision-makers. There are some things left to do. Finally, I would like to raise a question to which I did not think I had an answer either. It's about Sveaskog. Is the government prepared to give new owner directives to Sveaskog where environmental responsibility is more clearly evaluated? This would be a concrete way forward in order to achieve the environmental objective of living forests.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-513	Madam President, I would like There are now supplementary questions about more details on how to develop new methods of use. I welcome the fact that they are constantly evolving in environmental terms too. Questions were asked about the exact dates of the investigation on the Forest Protection Act announced by the government. I would like to refer the honourable Member here to the responsible minister, Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht, with those questions. Otherwise, I would like to thank you for the debate.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-514	Madam President, I would like Anders Forsberg has asked me questions about the management of nature reserves and the lack of statistics on how many reserves are managed according to the management plans. Initially, I would like to point out that protected natural areas, such as nature reserves and national parks, are an important part of the government's policy to achieve more of the environmental objectives and also to implement the outdoor life policy. Protected areas shall be managed in such a way as to preserve the natural values and to make them accessible to visitors. As a positive side-effect, reserve management also creates many jobs, not least in rural areas. The number of protected areas is gradually increasing, while the resources allocated by the State for management have not increased accordingly. Over a period of years, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has denounced the lack of funds, and the same signals have come from the county administrative boards. In the 2016 budget bill, the government has therefore proposed significant increases in the appropriation used, among other things, for the management of protected nature. The government has thus improved the conditions for our protected areas to receive the necessary good care. The state-created nature reserves, national parks and other protected areas are generally managed by the county administrative boards. Contributions to the management are received from the said grant, which is made available by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. There are also many nature reserves formed by the municipalities. In these cases, the municipality itself is responsible for the management and its financing. Report of the state conservation administration is made annually in the annual reports of the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the County Administrative Boards. In addition, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, on behalf of the Government, provides an in-depth annual report that includes the management of protected areas. This year's report is entitled Rereporting – Measures for Biodiversity 2012 – 2014 and is available on the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's website. I believe that these accounts give a good picture of the state conservation administration. However, I would like to agree with Anders Forsberg that further information on the status of protected areas would be useful. I therefore welcome the fact that the Environmental Protection Agency and the County Administrative Boards have come a long way in introducing an IT tool for the management of protected areas. It's called Care-Skötsel-DOS. When this is fully operational, additional data on the situation of the care of protected areas can be compiled.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-518	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for your answer, Minister for the Environment. The interpellation as such is about nature reserves. You can experience it as a problem or not. In any case, we feel that it is very difficult to read what the situation is like. There are no official national or regional statistics. In the interpellation, I ask the question whether it is right that this is the case. For example, we can see that we have over 4,000 nature reserves in Sweden. About 7 percent of the forest land is protected by public protection, and about 75 percent of the nature reserves are located in the mountain world. One can look at the budget line Actions and protection of a valuable nature and see developments from 1998 to 2015. In total, we have spent about 24 billion on it. Now not everything goes to the purchase and management of forest. But after all, it's a pretty big part of the money. You can look at the evolution. In 1998, we allocated SEK 420 million. In the budget proposal for 2016 it is 2.3 billion. That is six times as much as the total budget, i.e. an increase of 550 % over almost 20 years. You can think what you want about it. I may find that a little troubling. Above all, it is worrying when it does not seem to have better control of the measures and what is happening. From SD's side we requested a RUT survey, Dnr 2015:1475, on the management of nature reserves. We asked: is there any national or regional statistics? The answer, as the Minister himself has said, was that there is really nothing. It refers to the Care-Skötsel-DOS, as the Minister points out. But it's actually a tutorial support. Above all, it is very unclear when the Care-Skötsel-DOS will be up and running. Uppsala County is quite interesting. There was a question there about how to manage the action plans from Uppsala County. According to their own statements, they meet about half of the needs of the action plans with the current resources. A question can also be asked about the monitoring of protected areas in Sweden. As the Minister mentions, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has guidelines for monitoring outdoor life, nature types and species at the area's levels. The report talks about the importance of monitoring in order to make controls more effective and also in order to improve the efficiency of environmental work, which is quite important. According to the report from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, knowledge is important. In order to achieve a goal, you need to know what the situation is now. The question marks, as we have mentioned before, concern whether the management is adequate. The question is whether this is particularly cost-effective and whether it is something that contributes to biodiversity in the best way when, after all, you invest an incredible amount of money and when there are big questions about what you really achieve and get out. It would be interesting if the Minister for the Environment wanted to embroider this a little more.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-527	Madam President, I would like I have given an answer to the questions and I have made it clear that care is not sufficient in the protected areas. The authorities have been clear about this, and I think they have had a clear basis for stating this. This is also the basis for the government's increased expenditure items. We believe that it is important to manage the areas we protect, not least in order to ensure the environmental objectives that the protection is intended to achieve, but also in order to increase people's opportunities to participate in a rich nature. Much of the measures taken in the care are about marking up areas, providing map information and putting up signs. There may be drifts over bogs and shelters. It can be about clearing up cultural land and, of course, about knowledge acquisition, i.e. inventories, in order to monitor quality. It has not been enough, and we need to increase it. I do not know what answer the Swedish Democrats have to this, given the budget they support in the Swedish Parliament. But this is the government's entrance. I have given an answer in terms of development work to the effect that it also improves the statistics.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-529	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister for the Environment. Looking through the answers, you can see that increased purchases also provide increased care. It is no secret that the Swedish Democrats are investing significantly less. We choose, for example, to halve purchases and also to some extent to reduce maintenance. This is because we believe that priority must be given to this situation, especially under the current conditions. Then I think it is even more important that we give priority. It's about the importance of marking. We can take care-Skötsel-DOS, as Åsa Romson brings up. If you follow it and go in and look at it, you can see that in 2,089 of the total of over 4,000 protected areas there is no border marking, for example. You need to mark about 1,000 miles [1,000 km] a year, and it would cost about 60 million dollars a year. One can also look at the report that the Minister for the Environment is discussing on reporting back and measures for biodiversity from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency for 2012 – 2014. There's really nothing about the management plans. It mentions outdoor facilities and the like. Of course, I too may miss that information to some extent. You don't get the right information. In the Minister for the Environment's answer, there are statements that reservation management creates jobs. Yeah, that's it. But you also lose jobs. You lose jobs, you lose tax revenue and you lose service. There are a number of municipalities in Sweden that have a fairly large proportion of protected forests. Jokkmokk, for example, is in a situation where 48.3 percent of the forest area is protected. For Gällivare municipality it is 40.1 per cent. From that point of view, one might ask whether this does not become a dead hand rather than something that makes society live up. We are talking about tax-funded activities. There is poor follow-up, and there are questions and questions that I too can ask myself. I'm thinking about the long-term economic impact, the Minister for the Environment. As I mentioned, there are municipalities such as Jokkmokk, Gällivare and others where you have quite a lot of reservations. What's the assessment there? What will happen in the long term to these municipalities and communities? I think it is important to take this perspective into account in some way. We are happy to see that there are resources – 1 billion that we spend there, 600 million there and so on. But perhaps it is the needs that are the important parts in that case. It would be interesting to hear how the Minister views the long-term effects on these local communities located in the middle of the nature reserve and which are affected quite a lot.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-536	Madam President, I would like The care of protected areas is important, and it is a matter not least for the local community. I would like to emphasise that. I think it is clear that the protected areas that need to be managed most are also the most culturally marked natural areas. Regular care is needed there. These are also community areas, where nature is typically close to places where many people live, unlike some of the larger areas up in the mountains where the care of every square metre is not at hand. In that case, it is more about chips, maps, signs and such things. I don't really know what the interpellier's entrance is. On the one hand, you draw up many arguments and say that there are many indications from the authorities that the management needs to be improved and that it has stood back because of a lack of resources. On the other hand, the Swedish Democrats do not want to add these funds and question whether they should have protected areas to this extent at all. I would like to say that if we are to have growing societies and if we are to manage to allow a country with more and more people to thrive in Sweden, we also need to ensure biodiversity and that natural areas are in good condition and can serve us. It concerns both ecosystems and the services provided by nature and the capital that forests provide in terms of recreation, hunting and berry picking. These are areas where people can have these values and their needs satisfied. Then the care is very important, at the same time as it provides quite a lot of work. I think that we can come back in an interpellation debate on whether a nature reserve managed by local forces does not give much more back to the local community than it does, as in the interpellant's argumentation, lay a dead hand on the development of society. I rather believe that it goes hand in hand; the communities that can be developed are also capable of integrating natural areas that are important for the local community.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-541	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. If you look at forestry policy as such, it is clear that we have different views. But we can also think about what I mentioned in the first round: 24 billion has been invested or invested for almost 20 years, and we still cannot produce statistics for nature reserves. How has the development taken place, and what is happening? For example, do you manage your care plans? I may find that alarming and astounding. On our part, we really want to say that the reservations we have today are a good level. We believe that, above all, care, volunteering and voluntary provisions need to be given priority over state intervention and land take-over. The intentions of the government can also be considered. We had an interpellation debate about six months ago. The Minister for the Environment then expressed the desire to make reserves of about 1 - 1.5 million hectares of forest. In fact, it is quite worrying if you look at the cost both to society and to the forests. What happens when you turn forests into nature reserves is not just about buying forests and that money bags disappear to someone else. Future tax revenue will also disappear. Jobs are disappearing, as I said earlier, and other elements like cultural values disappear. Above all: We want to emphasise from our side that we believe that there should be a balance between environmental and production objectives and that we prioritise management over new purchases.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-545	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the debate.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-546	Madam President, I would like Penilla Gunther has asked me if I think it is reasonable that the stock exchange should be allowed to benefit high frequency traders, so-called robot trading, at the expense of other investors. I would like to start by saying that this is an important and topical issue that Penilla Gunther raises. High-frequency trading and its impact and impact on the securities market have been widely recognised and debated in recent years. Under the current regulations, there are general requirements for a stock exchange's activities in the Securities Market Act. Exchanges shall apply the principle of neutrality whereby the rules of the exchange are applied uniformly to all participants in trade. The stock exchange also has an obligation to monitor that trade is carried out in accordance with the said laws, regulations and administrative provisions and good practice in the securities market. Further rules on high frequency trading are addressed in recent EU legislation. The Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on markets in financial instruments, often referred to as MiFID II, lays down a series of rules directly related to high-frequency trading aimed at addressing the risks and problems associated with that type of activity. In addition to authorisation requirements, specific requirements are also laid down for effective systems and risk controls by high-frequency securities institutions. There is also a requirement for exchanges to have reliable trading suspension systems and functions. The implementation of the MiFID II Directive in Swedish law is currently under way within the Government Office, and the new rules will enter into force in spring 2017. I will therefore have reason to come back to this issue in the context of ongoing legislative projects.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-550	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Government for its answer. On the other hand, I note that what the interpellation heading states about losses to the pension system is unfortunately not involved in the answer at all. This can of course be seen as a shortcoming, because that is what the question is about. My first counter-question to the Government will then be, because the First AP Fund has been or is involved in two legal proceedings, if I have understood correctly: How is it going? And what losses do you think you have, or do you think you will suffer? This is a loss to our pension system. This is, and has been, a problem for a long time, because many feel that it is disadvantageous to those who act in the traditional way. The Government's reply states that exchanges shall apply the principle of neutrality whereby the rules of the stock exchange are applied in a uniform manner to all participants in trade. We note that when high-frequency trading is used, the rules are not applied uniformly. The closer you have to the computer that calculates it all, the more you can benefit from it. We know that. It is also stated in the report referred to by the Government on the infrastructure of the securities market. The pros and cons of high-frequency algorithmic trading are addressed, and it even states that the technology can be used for market abuse if, as a high-frequency trader, it has become aware of price-affected information, either about incoming large orders or price changes on a trading venue before the information has been published. Unfortunately, the questions I have written in the interpellation still remain – partly what losses the pension system has suffered as a result of this, and partly whether it can really be considered that traders are treated on equal terms if it is in this way and perhaps not illegally so at least highly inappropriate under Swedish legislation. That's a little bit of what this investigation is about. I am content with this now and look forward to new answers.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-554	Madam President, I would like When we reply to interpellations from the government, we look, above all, at the question at the bottom of the interpellation. My question to Minister Per Bolund is therefore: Is it reasonable for the stock exchange to be allowed to favour high frequency traders (so-called robot trading) at the expense of other investors? This issue is not specifically linked to the pension system or to the actors in the pension system. Since the question was general, the answer is also general. As far as AP funds are concerned, one case has been settled. In 2010, the First Swedish National Pension Fund Bank of New York Mellon was sued. It is also included in the interpellier's surface. At that time, the First AP Fund was given the right to make substantial payments, and the bank was sentenced to pay damages on most of the losses. It is important to note that this did not concern high-frequency trading, but other issues. It considered that the Bank had failed in its management of the Fund's mandate and acted recklessly. So it was not linked to the main issue. On the other hand, there is now a court case, and I cannot rule on a case that is still going on in court. But if you look at the public data, you can see that this is a joint process where the First AP Fund is only one of several actors. They believe that it has failed in its legal obligations by offering advantages to high-frequency traders. The first AP Fund believes that they have made a loss of approximately SEK 275 million. Whether it is true or not is ultimately decided by the Court, and that is how we need to look at the rules we have. Penilla Gunther says that algorithm trade and high-frequency trading can be used for market abuse, and that's right, but the focus must be on its use. There are many other ways to market abuse, and they must be combated regardless of the channel and technology used. If robot trading or high-frequency trading is used for market abuse, it should of course be prosecuted and corrected. Finansinspektionen is responsible for the supervision of the stock exchange's activities on the Swedish stock exchange market and is responsible for ensuring that the rules applicable to the stock exchange, i.e. that all actors must be treated equally, are also complied with on the Swedish market. Now new regulations are on the way. We have European legislation that has been adopted at European level and is being implemented in Swedish legislation. This will mean tightening up, including increased sanctions opportunities and increased supervision by Finansinspektionen regarding, for example, algorithmic trading. For example, there is a requirement for authorisation that securities institutions should have in order to engage in algorithmic trading. In order to obtain such an authorisation, the securities institution shall comply with detailed and fairly ambitious requirements. A permit also runs the risk of withdrawal if you abuse high-frequency trading. This will thus strengthen the regulatory framework across the EU and will apply generally to all stock exchanges within the EU system and reduce the risk of using this technical solution for market abuse of various kinds. I feel confident that we have a regulatory framework and supervision today, and now we have a process where the rules that apply on the Swedish market are further tightened. Then, as far as individual cases are concerned, we will see how the court hearing is progressing.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-561	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for the more detailed answer! I appreciate that very much. Once I've plowed through this investigation, I've just looked at the high-frequency trade. I have done this to see how the issue of equality is dealt with. It is a problem if many on the stock exchange feel that they are being unfairly treated and, in addition, as in the case of the First AP Fund, can suffer significant losses. As far as pension money is concerned, as a citizen and as a taxpayer, I am a little perplexed about whether this is the best way to fund money for pension if it can disappear to quite a large extent. It was not a matter of a few million, but there were many millions in the last case. It is still a matter that remains. When I read the investigation, the advantages and disadvantages emerge, but I cannot think that the proposals are sharp enough. From what I understand, the investigation started in 2013, and now it's been two years. Technological developments are progressing in all areas. The question is whether the proposals that will eventually come are enough up to date to actually keep up with the system. This is something to consider in relation to investigations. Nevertheless, the proposals put forward must be good enough to become applicable legislation. I wonder whether the rules between the European Union and the United States differ. You can look at the trade with the United States and our pension funds. Is there a difference there? How, then, should we deal with the issue of high-frequency trading? I don't know if the government has looked at this. I couldn't tell by the investigation either. Send us the question of our common assets contained in pensions in terms of the funding. Another question I should take this opportunity to ask is that the AP funds should be redone. There is also an investigation that only looks at the AP funds. There, the management of capital shall be reviewed. Should some kind of extra group be added to look at the placements and not keep the organisation as it stands today? Does it benefit the assets of the pension system to set up an additional group to look at the investments? Or is it better to have what we are discussing today in view of the issue we are discussing now, that is, the risk of a robot trade that does not really work?
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-567	Madam President, I would like Let us begin with the issue of interpellation, the issue of high-frequency trading linked to risks to the pension system. One can always discuss how far to go in the regulation of stock exchanges. There is always a balance between anticipating and trying to meet all the risks, having functioning markets where the parties can meet and there is some efficiency in trade. There is a risk of over-regulation and therefore high costs affecting transactions. In the end, it can lead to higher costs, for example for AP funds, which are major players on the Swedish stock exchanges. Here, as is often the case in politics, it is a question of finding a reasonable balance. Nevertheless, my assessment is that with a new regulation we are taking a major step forward. There are many stricter rules when it comes to high-frequency trading. It will lead to significantly greater risks of engaging in various forms of market abuse. It is true that there are examples of market abuse, but there is no clear picture that high-frequency trading is only negative for the stock exchanges. There are also those who argue that it leads to smaller so-called spreads on the market, i.e. the difference between the price that buyers are prepared to pay to finance an instrument and the price that a seller is prepared to sell the same instrument for. There are also those who argue that it leads to increased liquidity, i.e. that it will be easier to carry out transactions. Some believe that it contributes to smaller price changes, a reduction in volatility on stock exchanges. Then there are examples of different types of market abuse for which high-frequency trading can be used. They usually talk about laying and spoofing, which are different types of systems. Then, of course, systemic risks have been discussed. At extreme times, high-frequency trading can have a major impact on stock exchanges. What has been discussed in this context is what is called front running. It is not illegal in most cases; it is about being extra quick to intercept information that can then be used to make profits. There is currently a judicial review of whether this is a form of criminal activity or whether it is within the framework of the law. High-frequency trading has taken place in the United States. We are not ruling over American legislation in this House, but it is American regulators who are allowed to look at this issue. I know that there is an intense debate also in the US market on the phenomenon. I also know that the US authorities are following this issue closely. In the end, it is they who act on the markets, in this case the AP funds, who are allowed to decide whether they think the risks are greater than the benefits of acting in the market. Penilla Gunther raised the issue of the AP funds and the structural change now under discussion. It's an ongoing process. We have sent out a proposal for a referral. Responsive has come in. It is now the Pensions Group that takes in the views and will then discuss a common way forward. It is not true that we intend to have some extra group to deal with the issues. What is being discussed is to try to make the pension system more efficient and beneficial by means of different methods. That has been the purpose of the conversion process, which was initiated by the previous government and which we are now moving forward.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-577	Madam President, I would like I read that the referee rejects almost all new proposals for changes. It is interesting in itself how there can be so many suggestions for changes and so many rejections from those they touch. One might wonder whether it is really worth pushing through something that is actually not really accepted by those who are going to deal with the proposals in due course. I am not just saying this so that you will always follow those involved, because it can really be that you do not want to change or have reason not to want it. At the same time, it is clear that only by looking at the organisational sketches in the documents will there suddenly be many more players for the same money. The question is how much money you spend on reorganising and managing pension funds, but it is a side-by-side issue to this interpellation. Nevertheless, it is interesting to note that our pension funds may be so affected by the functioning of the market and how the stock market is managed with the existing commercial instruments. I am pleased that the Minister for Financial Markets is interested in the matter and is following it closely. However, I would like to take this opportunity to point out that if an investigation began to look at the issue two years ago, perhaps it has happened further up to this year. Look at technological developments so that the new legislation does not lag behind!
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-580	Madam President, I would like Of course we follow the questions closely. This is particularly true of the authorities that are set to monitor the issues, such as the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority. I know that the Swedish stock exchange also closely monitors developments and sees if there is a need for different types of measures. The principle of neutrality, supervision of stock exchanges and trade practices already apply in current legislation. It will also remain. What we are doing now is to further strengthen the scope for supervision and present a requirement for authorisation to conduct high-frequency trading. This will lead to a greater opportunity for Finansinspektionen to conduct supervision of this type of trade. It is a good and important step to avoid abuse of the systems. With regard to the pension system as a whole, which Penilla Gunther also refers to in the debate, it is important to remember that it is the Pensions Group – where the Christian Democrats are also sitting – that has initiated this process. It has also ordered proposals from the Ministry of Finance and thus set the framework for what the memorandum that has now been out for consultation should look like. As I said, the referral has come in. The members of the pension group now have a responsibility to strike a balance between the points of consultation that have come in and come up with a joint proposal. As I said, that process is taking place in full swing. There, my job and the Ministry of Finance is only to ensure that the Pensions Group's wishes are met. Thank you again for the interpellation. I think this is an important issue. It is clear that stock exchanges have a very important function for the entire Swedish and international financial system. Then it is also important that we ensure that trade takes place in a good way and that there is transparency, clarity and key rules so that everyone has the same opportunities.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-585	Madam President, I would like Håkan Svenneling has asked me if the Swedish Service Centre's proposed relocations will also include academic jobs. Furthermore, he has asked me whether, within the framework of my responsibility in the government, I will work towards the relocation of the new mission of the E-Health Agency and the new coordinating support functions of the AP Funds. Initially, I want to make it clear that the starting points for how we choose to locate government activities are several. We must have a legally secure and efficient government with good service and accessibility, and we want to safeguard rural jobs and development. It is therefore important that the localisation of the state authorities can be spread more widely across the country. A starting point is that the authorities should be able to carry out their tasks effectively. With regard to the announced assignment to the State Service Centre to propose which public authority functions would be appropriate to relocate, such an assignment will be prepared within the Government Office. It is therefore too early to indicate the direction and scope of the mission and the proposals that will result from it. As far as the EHealth Agency is concerned, no new funds have been set aside in the budget for the coming years. That is what we can say at the moment. As Håkan Svenneling writes, the proposals in the departmental memorandum regarding new regulation for the AP funds are, among other things, about streamlining, where the administration of the AP funds is proposed to be brought together in one of the three future AP fund authorities. Questions related to how AP funds will be organised will now be prepared after the end of the consultation period within the Government Office and by the Pension Group. As with other authorities, the starting point is that the AP Fund authorities should use the administrative services provided by the State Service Centre whenever possible. Most of the Swedish Service Centre's operations are conducted in Östersund and Gävle.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-591	Madam President, I would like I have asked three questions to Minister Ardalan Shekarabi about the decrease in the number of government jobs in Sweden's smaller municipalities. I and the Government had an interpellation debate on something like the same subject this spring, and now I thought it was important to take it up again for discussion. I thank the Minister very much for his answer. The Government will, if the budget negotiated between the Left Party and the Government is adopted by the Riksdag on 25 November, give a mandate to the State Service Centre to propose which government functions could be relocated from the metropolitan regions to other parts of Sweden. This mission is very important, but some voices have said that it would only be about simpler tasks such as telephone services or the like. Therefore, my first question in the interpellation to the Government was whether academic jobs will also be included in the proposal. The Government's response that the mission is being prepared within the Government Office is not very exhaustive, but I still think it is good that the Government states that it is very important that the location of the state authorities can be spread more widely across the country. However, I would have liked the Government to have given a clearer answer and referred to the financial plan, which states, among other things, that it is important that there should be jobs for officials and academics outside the major cities as well. I will continue to follow closely that this will be the case – that academic jobs also become part of the relocations. We'll see when the mission is formulated in the Government Office. My second and third question concerns the authorities that are being discussed in various proposals for the creation of. I would like answers as to whether the establishment of these agencies will mean that they will be relocated – i.e. in the light of the fact that in the previous budget agreement between the Left Party and the Government it is stated that new authorities should be relocated when they are formed. The decision on the AP funds is a bit advanced in time, but I still find it interesting that the Government makes a clear link between the work of the State Service Centre and the efforts to streamline the administration of the AP funds. It will be interesting to follow this. However, the decision on the E-Health Agency should be a little more in the near future. Perhaps that is why the answer in principle does not come from the Government. In this context, I note that Minister Shekarabis's responsibility is not for the specific authority but more generally for all authorities on a more general level. For me, however, it would be logical to outsource the E-Health Agency if it were given a new broadened mandate, which would amount to a doubling of the size of the E-Health Agency today. The agency was founded as late as two years ago and is currently located in Stockholm. The government inquiry submitted last spring did not propose any relocation or relocation at all, but, based on regional competence, Kalmar County would be suitable for a new location of such an authority. There are also many of us waiting for Statskontoret's report, which the Government has initiated. It shall compile and describe the changes that have taken place over time in the state administration with regard to the location of government jobs. This investigation is particularly interesting for those working at the eight tax offices whose removal has been paused by the Director General of the Swedish Tax Agency, pending the outcome of the investigation and, above all, for new political directives for the Swedish Tax Agency in its role as a large state authority. At least here I hope that the Secretary of State can play a decisive role. For me, logic is clear. When I visited the tax office in Mariestad, which is being moved to Skövde, it became illogical in centralization. In Mariestad, the state rents premises that are currently empty – an entire upper floor – while a possible location to Skövde would mean that the entire tax office in Skövde would have to search and move to new premises. My question to the Government is therefore: will the Government act in favour of a new policy that strengthens the state's presence throughout the country?
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-604	Madam President, I would like I thank Håkan Svenneling for both the question and the excellent report on the government's actions in relation to the location of the state authorities. This is an incredibly important question. It is about the cohesion of our society. It is about the legitimacy of the Swedish state. It is also about the potential of different regions to develop. Then it is important to consider access to academic jobs. Immediately after the change of power, the government made the assessment that this is a policy area in which we need to evaluate and steer after eight years of inaction. Basically, we have models where the authorities have been given the opportunity to make their own decisions on location issues. But we see a need to have an overall principled governance of localisation issues in the state sector. We also need to continue working on streamlining government data, which is now being gathered in the State Service Centre. As Håkan Svenneling says, we have two ongoing works. One is a mission to Statskontoret, where you now carefully look at the issue of how the state location looks and evaluates it. It is also tasked with proposing horizontal guiding principles on the issue of location and a mechanism for coordinating state authorities in decision-making on localisation issues. We have, as Håkan Svenneling described, stated in the budget that we should continue to work with efficiency efficiency, and then also with relocation as a tool for efficiency improvement. There has been a myth that the only way to streamline government activities is to centralise them to the big cities. This does not need to be the case, and therefore Statskontoret will be tasked with analysing which government functions can be relocated and streamlined by coordinating these activities within the framework of the State Service Centre. We have had an investigation that looked at this issue, giving several examples of government functions that may be interesting to look at in terms of coordination and relocation. This could include IT support, e-archiving, implementation support for government-specific procurements and office support and staff management services. We have already decided to join the State Service Centre in terms of salary management services. The next step will be to work with e-archiving, where there is a great efficiency potential. Here we have a good example of how government governance, a government governance, can mean that we increase the efficiency of resource use within the state while spreading state jobs and strengthening the presence in smaller locations. We will, of course, monitor this and take this aspect into account in the mission given to the Service Centre. This is done in parallel with Statskontoret's work to develop proposals for guiding principles.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-614	Madam President, I would like At the beginning of October, the Danish government decided to move 3 900 state jobs from Copenhagen to 38 locations around Denmark. The reform aims to achieve a geographically more balanced Denmark where not only Copenhagen is growing. The decision means that more than 10% of public employment in Copenhagen will be transferred to the regions. The decision concerns 40 authorities, and for 20 authorities the entire activity is transferred to another part of Denmark. The Danish Government justifies the decision on the need for the state authorities and jobs to be brought closer to citizens and businesses. Since public authorities exist to solve tasks that benefit citizens and businesses, they need to be where citizens and businesses are. The government also justifies the decision that the State has a responsibility to contribute through state jobs to jobs throughout the country. The Danish Government expects some conversion costs and has therefore allocated additional resources but expects that in the long term it will mean more efficient organisations and lower fixed costs. Sweden currently has about 400 government agencies. Rural areas have been losers when, overall, government jobs have increased by around 5 700 jobs since 2004. At the same time, in smaller municipalities, these jobs have decreased by 4 000 jobs. Instead, jobs have been concentrated mainly in larger cities. This means that the large municipalities have received a supplement of about 10,000 government jobs. To break the trend where the state has centralised itself to the big cities and do the same thing as the Danes is, I mean, no impossibility. We all know that our three major cities today are struggling with housing shortages and an infrastructure for a rapidly growing population. In this situation, concentrating government jobs on big cities reinforces, in my opinion, an already unsustainable situation. Instead, to dare to reverse the situation and create new jobs throughout the country, I think, would contribute to a positive development. Collaboration with regional higher education institutions could form clusters in certain areas of competence, resulting in positive synergies. One such example could be to relocate the E-Health Agency to Kalmar County and take advantage of the regional expertise that exists around Linnaeus University, as the former university is now called. The large relocation we had after the defence closures in 2003 has shown that there may be some running-in problems; that should not be ignored. It is therefore quite clever for the Danes, in this situation, to allocate specific resources for restructuring. It costs a little bit in the beginning, but you gain from it in the long run. The new government has taken some steps in the right direction. Statskontoret's mission to follow the reinforcement of the 400 authorities more closely is a clear one. But I believe that there is a need for a policy that is visible and that makes a difference. It is therefore time for the government to move authorities from major cities to rural areas, both to ensure a good service throughout the country and for the state to be a major player in the local labour market and thus contribute to development throughout the country. I therefore wonder what Minister Shekarabi thinks about the Danish Government's decision to relocate 10% of public employment from Copenhagen. Is it something that you could imagine doing in Sweden? Is that something that inspires you? Or perhaps you are even thinking about making a business trip to Copenhagen and the Danish government?
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-622	Madam President, I would like There is always reason to analyse and monitor the development of administrative policy in the other Nordic countries. We have comparable administrations. Although we have different management models, it is of interest to see how they work with the governance and organisation of the public sector. As I understand it, Statskontoret intends to analyse the Danish decision in its work. I look forward to seeing Statskontoret's report. This report will be an important input in the government's efforts to better control government decision-making, but we need to base that policy and governance on knowledge, experience and analysis. Therefore, it is good that Statskontoret has received a mandate and is investigating all the relevant issues that exist when working with localisation policy. At the same time, we will shortly be giving a mission to the State Service Centre. This mission is important if we are to succeed in improving the dissemination and efficiency of government activities. It feels good to have two parallel tracks. This means that we focus on the issue from two different perspectives: the relocation of authorities and the relocation of government functions within existing authorities. The knowledge now being developed will be used to develop a policy of localisation of authorities. We will not be passive on this issue. It is important for the government to have a better distribution of government jobs, and we want to base this policy on knowledge and analysis of other countries' experiences as well.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-626	Madam President, I would like In the newspaper Dagens samhället one could last week read an article that highlighted the state's urbanization. The article reads that between 2001 and 2010, two researchers have studied how quickly urbanisation has gone for the state and the private sector. In Sweden's smaller municipalities, the survey showed, 4 1⁄2 per cent of government jobs had disappeared in the last ten years, while only 0.4 per cent of private jobs had disappeared during the same period. According to the study, the winners were the big cities and, above all, the other major cities. If we are to have a different development from that we have seen in the 21st century, it is no longer possible to release the Directors-General. Now the state needs to get together better and find an organisation that is not built based on 400 Directors-General's own needs, but based on government ambitions to be available and offer good service throughout the country. Therefore, it would be good if the Government made a mission to Denmark and took inspiration from the new direction of the Danish Government to relocate authorities from Copenhagen to other locations in the country. We do not need to look so much at the other policy areas with which the Danish Government is working, but instead focus on this. If it happened in Sweden, I think it would create a policy that was noticed and that made a difference both by guaranteeing good service and by the state having a significant role as a player in the local labour market and thereby contributing to development throughout the country. The Government and I will certainly come back to this issue. It will be exciting to see Statskontoret's report in April, and then we will see how the development will be in the future. I very much hope for the future ambitions of the Government.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-630	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Håkan Svenneling for this interpellation. It is important that Parliament monitors this issue. It is important that we have a political discussion on this issue. Although the state sector accounts for only 5% of the Swedish labour market, the state's presence is important for the legitimacy of the state and for the cohesion of our country. That is why we need to work more closely with the management of localisation decisions. We need to take a holistic approach. The authorities are responsible for monitoring their issues from the operational perspective they have according to their instructions. The government is responsible for the whole, for the coordination of the state authorities and for the principled governance. We should not renounce this responsibility. We shall take this responsibility, and it will require the overall governance of the state authorities. I look forward to working on this issue. I look forward to a continued dialogue in the Swedish Parliament. This commitment also facilitates the government's work on the development of administrative policy.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-633	Madam President, I would like Daniel Riazat has asked me whether I intend to initiate clarifications in the legislation in order to ensure that the long-term responsibility of municipalities for school is not a financial disadvantage to independent schools. It was under the previous government that today's provisions on how contributions to independent preschools and schools should be calculated were introduced. The preparatory work for the legislation states that the municipality's costs of maintaining a readiness to receive pupils in primary and secondary school are not directly related to the costs of educational activities. It was therefore considered that there was no need to pay particular attention to that task for the municipality when determining the contributions to the independent schools. Therefore, when a municipality decides the grant for a student in an independent school, no deduction shall be made for costs attributable to the municipality's obligation to be prepared to receive pupils. It often takes time for new legislation to be put in place. The grant system as it stands has been in place since 2010, and guidance from the higher administrative courts is beginning to emerge. From the examples of judgments given by Daniel Riazat, it appears that if a municipality manages a deficit created by a write-off, this means that the principle of equal treatment has been infringed, since its own activities are thus provided with an additional resource which does not benefit independent schools. According to the judges, the corresponding resources must be provided to the independent schools. The municipalities of Sweden and Landsting therefore recommend that they allow the municipal schools to bring both surplus and deficit to the next year. The Joint Parliamentary Committee on Free Schooling considered that a review of the grant provisions would be useful, particularly when several of the Committee's proposals dealt with resource allocation issues. There we, who are now in the government, agreed with the alliance parties that there is a need to investigate how the regulations work as well as to assess the transparency of how the basis for the grant decisions is handled. Furthermore, the large number of appeals brought about by the new possibilities for appeal against grant decisions led to a review. The study therefore has the task of reviewing the application of the rules on calculating and deciding on grants to independent schools and, if necessary, proposing amendments to ensure a level playing field between municipal and individual authorities. According to its directives, the investigation will present its proposals in March 2016. When the proposals of the investigation come, I look forward to discussing them, including in this House. But first, the investigation work must take its course.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-638	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Gustav Fridolin for his reply. Since the 1990s, we have been involved in school reforms that have led to some good and some bad things. I was going to focus on the market element that has slowly but surely entered the Swedish school. It has now been many years since the free school reform, the school money reform and the reforms called free school elections. What have we seen in these years? Well, what we've seen is that equivalence has fallen. There have been greedy actors who have made huge profits from our tax money and the resources that were intended to go to give students the level of knowledge to which they are entitled, on reasonable terms for school staff, etc. What has happened in recent times? Well, what we've been able to see after the Alliance ruled this country for eight years was that this intensified. The profits got bigger, and the school became a market, just as they wanted. Of course, there are also actors who have done well. There are examples of cooperatives and other foundations that conduct a really good education. But what have we seen lately in the near future? Well, we've seen free schools shut down. Free school groups like John Bauer have been shut down and gone bankrupt. Academedia, the largest free school group in Sweden, has declared that it is planning to sell the business. We have also heard only in recent weeks about the Energy Upper Secondary School in Täby, which has been forced by the School Inspectorate to suspend its activities temporarily because it does not meet the criteria. We now have a situation in which the municipalities have already compensated the free schools for teaching, and what has been seen is that they have, contrary to that, made profits and carried on an irresponsible activity in which the students have not received the education they have earned. In this situation, we in the Left Party believe that it is unreasonable to bring sentences saying that the municipalities should again be punished. The municipalities are now taking greater responsibility than the independent schools. What happens when a free school is closed? Well, when it comes to elementary school, you should bring the students into the municipal schools as soon as possible, and you do. When it comes to high school, it will be many times to the next academic year, but already during this academic year if possible. This means that municipalities take greater responsibility for education and for pupils than the independent actors do. Unlike the independent actors, the municipality does not decide exactly how many pupils can attend school, but is obliged to ensure that all pupils in the municipality receive the education they are entitled to. That is why we believe that it is unreasonable for municipalities that go backwards because of, among other things, the compensation and school money given to free schools to be penalised once again for not being able to keep the budgetary framework in place. What does this lead to in the end? Well, that means that you will find it even more difficult to get out of the deficit you may have had in the current year, because it gets bigger when you have to overcompensate the free schools further.
i-VLyo1CFtBqgWCukHCcze33	Madam President, I would like Thank you to the interpellant for the interpellation and to the Government for the answer! This is an issue where there is some scope for clarification, and perhaps it would be appropriate in Swedish politics to focus on what are the real problems. In a situation where for many years we have had structurally declining school results and also urgently need more school places, more competent teachers and more talented schools that can receive many newly arrived students, we need to focus on just how to strengthen schools in Sweden – not how to make it as easy and efficient as possible with their political ideology to make it difficult for schools to exist and make it easy for municipal councillors to close them when they find it uncomfortable to have to schedule for several schools. Freedom of choice has existed in Swedish school systems for 25 years. Freedom of choice did not enter the Swedish school system because there was a large number of companies knocking on the door to run schools in Sweden. Freedom of choice came into the Swedish system so that Swedish pupils and Swedish parents got tired of municipal politicians setting the limits for which school they could attend and which schools could and should not exist. Equal treatment was called for. It demanded that one's own opinion as a parent and as an individual be worth as much as the view of a councillor. They wanted to have the opportunity to make the small, simple choice to decide for yourself which school your children would go to. It seemed reasonable for one's children to attend the same school as their older sister, even though they had moved. It seemed reasonable for one's children to go with the neighbors'children, even though they lived on the wrong side of a political line that one councillor had once drawn, saying that children on one side should go to one school and children on the other side of another. Freedom of choice has come to Swedish school because the parents have demanded it, not because there has been rebellion in the House for that reason. You have to be clear about that. It is not for ideological reasons that we have freedom of choice in Swedish school. We have this because it is needed and because it is assumed by Swedish parents. If, for ideological reasons, we want to ban freedom of choice, I think we should argue in favour of it. But then you have to do it honestly and honestly. What the Left Party is arguing for is that it should not be equal treatment for municipal schools and other schools. Some schools in one municipality should be able to be favored by the municipal management and receive extra funding that no other school should be able to receive. The consequence of this policy is, of course, that it is once again the municipal councillor who decides which schools are to be found and which students are to be allowed to go in them instead of the parents being allowed to retain that power. The consequence of the policy of the Left Party on this issue is, by extension, exactly what the Left Party also wants, namely the abolition of freedom of choice in school. Parents should not be allowed to choose which school their children should attend. Adult adolescents should not be allowed to choose which school to attend. When you put it in the kind of economic argument that Daniel Riazat is trying to make in this House, you actually hide your agenda, and you do not stand for what you are actually pushing. The consequence of the proposals you put forward is the disappearance of free schools and the disappearance of freedom of choice. The consequence of the proposals you put forward is that schools should not be treated equally. On the contrary, they are to be separated financially from the preference of the municipal councillor in the municipality. It's not a road Sweden should go. It's not a road Swedish parents want. It is not a path that the Swedish people want to see as politics. I am pleased and grateful that it apparently does not seem to be a path that the Swedish Social Democratic and Environmental Party government wants to go.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-655	Madam President, I would like I think one problem in the Swedish school debate is that no matter how young we are in the school debate, no matter how young we were at the turn of the decade from the 80s to the 90s, it seems that the debate is very much about the reforms that were carried out at the time. There were some very big reforms. It is about the municipalisation, the introduction of student money and a very liberal free school system. I think it's the three big building blocks. You can add a few more. In the school debate, everyone seems to agree on two things: I don't think it's that simple. I think we need a more thorough structural discussion about the school, based on certain things. I think you should continue to have the opportunity to choose a school, for example. I know that this discussion is taking place within the framework of the School Commission. Another thing that is important for me to discuss are the pictures that are now painted by Swedish free schools. I think it is important to note that we have obviously had companies and individuals who have been trusted to run schools without having earned that trust. Obviously, there have been those who have been entrusted to run schools and who have not been able to do so. We have also seen examples of a school being run in such a way that it has not provided the best conditions for the students. Money that could have gone to school has disappeared to other businesses. At the same time, it should be pointed out that the vast majority of free schools are run by dedicated people who have started their school with the aim of providing the best possible school. This is the case regardless of the form of organisation, whether it is a cooperative, a non-profit-making company or, for that matter, a limited liability company. The conclusions I draw from this are two: In conclusion, Madam President, I shall turn to the specific issue, which did not take up much of the speeches but which, on the other hand, is about the interpellation. We now have an investigation into the school expenses investigation. It has come from the agreement of the Free School Committee, and it looks at questions about how to increase transparency and better equity in the distribution of grants. I don't want to precede it.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-663	Madam President, I would like I would just like to begin briefly by commenting on what Erik Bengtzboe from the Moderates has mentioned in the speaker's chair. The Moderates have again ended up in a situation where the story should be rewritten. Everyone who has been involved in the political debate in Sweden for a long time knows what a lot of these reforms have been about from the beginning. We are seeing the results of them today. It is not possible to repeat an untruth several times to make it true. All of us who have been primarily involved in school policy but also in welfare policy generally know what these market reforms have led to. But now I'm going to move on to what the interpellation was about from the beginning. I would once again like to thank Gustav Fridolin for his clarification. I would also like to say that there are absolutely fantastic free schools. There are, as you say, free schools where enthusiasts struggle day in and day out to give the students the best education they can get. At the same time, however, we know that there is something that is not quite systematic about this when Sweden is the only country in the world today that has such an extreme free school reform. Sweden is the only country in the world where free school players, such as Academedia, with venture capital companies in the background can make huge profits. That is why I am pleased that we have a government that has agreed to investigate the issue together with the Left Party in order to put an end to the over-profits that are being made in the free school industry. I would like to talk about the principle of equal treatment, which Gustav Fridolin mentions in his reply. What is the principle of equal treatment that applies when municipalities go backwards because they are unable to plan their activities, since the free schools have taken a number of pupils to their schools? Where is the principle of equal treatment when municipalities are now going to go further in their budget because they must again overcompensate the free schools? Where is the principle of equal treatment when municipalities are always obliged to take care of all pupils who need an education but free schools are not? I understand the Minister of Education doesn't want to go ahead with an investigation. But it would be interesting to at least get an answer to what the government and Gustav Fridolin, as government representatives and Minister for Education, see that many municipalities today are unable to deal with their financial framework because of this and that they are concerned about what is expected to come in the near future. I can take an example from my municipality, Falun, where there is a large over-establishment of free schools. The majority are profit-making players. As a result, the municipality has found it more difficult to plan for its activities and therefore, for obvious reasons, has not been able to maintain the financial framework that has been in place. In this situation, they have had to pay out an additional million SEK to these free schools and have gone back further in their operations. It will be visible to the teachers when their colleagues need to go. It will be visible to students when they no longer have enough staff. In what way does the Minister of Education consider this to be a principle of equal treatment? And, once again, what does the Minister for Education and the Red Green Government intend to do in this regard?
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-670	Madam President, I would like To discuss the course of history you can devote yourself to as much as you want. What is interesting is to return to history, and for those who look at this debate and want to form their own opinion, I commend the Social Democratic Power Investigation presented in 1990. There you get a good insight into what Sweden actually looked like and what was the prelude to the reforms that then took place for almost 10 – 15 years after. What happened in the 70s and 80s and what Sweden it formed created, of course, created the conditions for how Sweden then developed. I must agree with the two previous speakers that there are certainly major challenges in the Swedish school system. Not least, it concerns the lack of clarity in how it is structured and unclear in the leadership of the Swedish school. It is not clear to a teacher and a principal who has neither the responsibility, the authority nor the obligation to deliver an education that works. Regardless of which government it is that has carried out a certain reform—it may be a new or an old—there are many things that we need to develop. But what I think is the important thing is not to focus on tearing up what was not perfect, but to ensure that we develop the Swedish school with respect for all those who work in it and ensure that it can actually get better, but to constantly disclose everything from the beginning. We absolutely need stricter controls on who is allowed to run schools in Sweden, both public and private principals, and it should also be a level playing field economically. And we need more focus on the results in school. There has been a huge lack of follow-up in the Swedish school, and above all, the focus has not been on the students' results. And that is something that should be the focus of the Swedish school, regardless of party political ideology or what reforms you want to see.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-674	Madam President, I would like One of the OECD's researchers who participated in the in-depth review of Swedish schools described that at the end of every conversation they had – they all met in Swedish school systems, different types of principals, school authorities and political parties – he asked the same question: Okay, this picture you are now presenting to me, who is responsible for it? He said: I got many answers and I got long answers, but I never got two similar answers. I think that gives a picture of exactly what Erik Bengtzboe and Daniel Riazat describe. We have had a fragmented school system where the image of who is responsible is so unclear that you can stand anywhere in the school system, see a problem and think: This is something someone should do something about. All good school development, or for that matter other welfare or business development or whatever you want, begins with everyone feeling responsible for what you can do, from the case of the school student, the parent, the teacher, the headmaster, the municipal politician to the independent principals and the state. There must then be a much clearer division of responsibilities than it is today. Perhaps that is the main reason why the previous government asked the OECD to conduct a thorough review of Swedish schools. We are now allowing it to move on to a school commission which I hope will come up with a number of proposals on how to meet this challenge. Daniel Riazat asks what the extra responsibility that the municipalities have looks like. It's a sentence that's usually found in interpellation responses. I discovered that it did not exist in this answer, but it has been in previous answers from, I believe, various governments regarding the establishment of the Swedish school system. There it usually says that in a cohesive school system, municipalities have the main responsibility for pupils' schooling, and so it is in the Swedish school system. My view and that of the government is that, at least in a lot of cases, this means extra responsibility and extra cost for the municipalities. However, this was not included in the preparatory work for the current Education Act. That is why we are now waiting for the School Cost Study, which we agreed on in the Free School Committee, which is reviewing precisely how the rules for calculating and deciding on grants for independent schools are to be applied. It will look at exactly the kind of ruling from the Administrative Court that Daniel Riazats's interpellation is about. There is a picture here that it is like this and that you can not do anything about it. Since I started this speech by pointing out how everyone can take responsibility for the situation in which they find themselves, even in a school system that has been fragmented, I would nevertheless like to emphasise that there are things that municipalities can do on the basis of existing regulations. What SKL recommends is that each school should be a separate performance unit that will thus have to bring both surpluses and deficits into the following year. It is a way of meeting the kind of problems that often arise at this particular time of year. If SKL were to find that there is reason not only to give some examples but also to change the rules, the government would of course be prepared to include it in the discussions on the school cost inquiry's proposals. I haven't received any such talk from SKL so far.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-680	Madam President, I would like I will start again by saying that I agree with much of what Erik Bengtzboe from the Moderates says. Of course, we need to focus on how we can improve what is not good today and on all students getting the education that they are actually entitled to but may not get at all times today. I also agree that you cannot tear everything up and just restart everything from the beginning or paint a scenario that now everything is terrible and that everything has to change, of course not. At the same time, we know that, as representatives of different parties, we have different interests on these ideological issues. Erik Bengtzboe from the Moderates clearly represents the market-liberal side, which he receives support for from the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and other actors in this. Let us be clear that this is about ideological issues, and school policy has always been and will be ideological. But the important thing here is to take in what the research says and what investigators in the field say. One can begin by looking at the latest OECD report, which clearly takes a position on the issue of free school elections and criticises it – not to mention the Director-General of the Swedish National Agency for Education. Madam President, I would like I would also like to comment on what Mr Fridolin said. I think it is important that we have a Minister for Education who sees that the municipalities can get extra costs because they have greater responsibility according to law than independent schools have. But then again we come to the question of the principle of equal treatment: if we now have a government and a Minister for Education who believes that the municipalities are taking greater responsibility today, which leads to increased costs, how is it a principle of equal treatment to overcompensate the free schools, even though the municipalities are already in a difficult situation?
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-684	Madam President, I would like I will begin by answering the last question. We can see that this means greater responsibility, in any case for the municipalities that have operated where a free school has gone bankrupt. The responsibility there has become very clear. They have to make room quite quickly and so on. But I find it hard to see that the solution would be to change the rules so that it would be easier for municipalities to transfer money to their schools in November and December. What is actually the proposal is that it should be easier to cover operational deficits, without dealing with free schools that have the same kind of deficit, and that precisely in November and December, money should go in. If we see, as Daniel Riazat obviously does, that there is an extra responsibility here, it is rather this responsibility that should be regulated in the basic regulations. We will be able to continue this discussion when the School Cost Study is completed, as I see it. Then again, I note that on this issue, SKL has a recommendation on how to act. Should SKL be in a situation where they say that they are unable to give good recommendations based on current regulations without there being an actual problem that they see a need to solve, then we will really take it to heart and have a discussion with SKL about it. There are many discussions between the Ministry of Education and SKL, especially these days, but I have not understood it from SKL, but they stick to their recommendation that each school should be a result unit.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-687	Madam President, I would like Maria Stockhaus has asked me how I intend to act in order to implement the part of the migration agreement relating to the possibilities for free schools to receive new arrivals and when a solution may be in place. Erik Bengtzboe has asked me how I intend to ensure that it will be possible for free schools to receive newly arrived students quickly, and what the timetable for such a change looks like. As the interpellations deal with the same issue, I answer them together. The Migration Agreement includes as part that independent schools should have the same opportunities as municipal schools to receive asylum seekers and newly arrived pupils. The aim is to increase the number of school places. Therefore, the Government intends to shortly set up an investigation that will, among other things, quickly investigate and suggest how individual principals of schools where there is queue should be able to receive newly arrived students. The intention is for a new legislation to be in place in autumn 2016.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-690	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Government for its answer. We know that many municipalities are starting to get on their knees when it comes to dealing with all new arrivals, not least all children. There will be more whole families. As a result, more children have arrived in recent times. And they need schooling. At the Education Committee's meeting today, the Minister for Education himself explained how unevenly distributed the newly arrived children are between different schools. This, of course, makes it difficult to offer a good and equal education. Many of the schools that receive the most new arrivals already have many pupils who do not have Swedish as their native language. It does not facilitate integration either. Free schools are often accused of picking raisins out of the cake and not being involved in taking responsibility. This is not true if you look at the statistics on the student base in independent schools. Overall, many students with foreign background attend independent schools. And there are many examples of independent schools that establish themselves in areas where there are many students with foreign backgrounds. Here in Stockholm, the International English School has recently established itself in Kista, an area where there are many new arrivals and many students with foreign backgrounds. Now the free schools have clearly signalled that they want to be involved in taking responsibility and want to be able to receive newly arrived students. But the legislation does not allow them to have a quota if they have a full quota. Then they must follow the queue they have before. Everyone agrees that we are in an exceptional situation and that additional measures are needed. The Alliance and the government also agree that we need to make changes in order for free schools to have the opportunity to receive newly arrived students. The fascinating thing is that the National Association of Free Schools has already produced a more or less ready-made proposal for what it could look like. You would have your own quota, which would be limited in time. It would be reported how large that quota would be and how it would have been taken into account. Then the students would be placed there based on their choice. They may be recommended. But you could also accept students assigned to a school. So there is a ready-made proposal. In an exceptional situation like this, action and speed are required. Unfortunately, I don't think that characterizes the Department of Education. We debated contracts in remote education a week ago. It took eight months to start an investigation into construction in remote education. That is why I am concerned that this is not going to happen quickly enough. The free schools are knocking on the door and want to help. They have delivered a more or less ready proposal that one could ask someone to look at quickly. I'm worried that in a month the investigation has not even been set up. The migration agreement is almost a month old now.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-699	Mr President, I would like to The world is undoubtedly in an exceptional situation. Many people find themselves in an extremely tough and under pressure. You are forced to leave your homes and your families – not because you want to, not because you are a Swedish, adventurous 19-year-old who goes to other countries to work for poor pay, but because you have to. You run for your life and have no other choice. In all discussions about the pressured, stressed and acute situation, it is important that we recognise for which people it is urgent in earnest. You easily get a system perspective where you miss the people behind this. It's actually for them that it matters. The question is that we should be able to solve as quickly as possible the quality and quality of schooling as possible for those who come to Sweden. We are not doing this to facilitate migratory flows in such a way. We know that the opportunity to get a good education and to quickly integrate into Swedish society, with education and with language, is the way in to get the chance to shape a new and own life. At the same time, the situation is very strained in many municipalities. It cannot be denied, even if according to the municipal representatives it looks different over Sweden. Right now, it's fast. All the good forces are needed to enable us to solve the situation as effectively, pleasantly and functionally as possible. However, in a situation where many schools are under pressure when it comes to receiving students, the school in the next building may have such a regulatory framework that they are not allowed to receive new students at all. Because they have a queue in, and that sex must not be circumvented– not even to bring in newly arrived students. Of course, it puts a restraint on the system. You can't work as active and fast as you'd like. You can't scale up those devices and get more students in. But of course it also creates a lot of frustration when teachers and principals at a school feel that they have to take a big responsibility while other teachers want to take responsibility but do not get the chance to do so. An investigation is now in place to review the possibility of circumventing this, to dissolve the current regulatory framework according to which the state of the schools is based on having a certain number as a model. We must make it more flexible. I would like to ask the Government whether, while awaiting the investigation, there is a possibility of setting up a pilot project more quickly, allowing schools that are not allowed to bring in pupils today, because they have a queue to have the opportunity, during a trial period, while we now have before us when the pressure is at its highest, to take in at least a quota of pupils and face some of the pressure.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-706	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank you for the intervention and two important contributions. I would really like to underline what Erik Bengtzboe says about the fact that it is easy for us to discuss our situation as if it were the most serious crisis in the world. The most serious crisis is, of course, for the people who are forced to flee. On these principles rested the migration policy agreed once by the Green Party and the Moderates. I hope that these principles can also guide our parties in the future. Sweden is currently carrying out the largest humanitarian operation since the end of the Second World War. It is a sentence that is often repeated by many more than the government. But it's really that way. Looking at what is being done by everything from voluntary forces to those working in school, it can be seen that a humanitarian effort that has been unprecedented since we helped when the rest of Europe was in ruins after the war. I am very pleased that the free schools will then signal that they want to be involved in taking greater responsibility and making a greater contribution to that work. They then subscribe to a tradition and work that goes on everywhere, throughout Sweden. Then two things are important. First of all, free schools without queues can be involved in taking that responsibility from tomorrow. Free schools that follow this debate, read the minutes afterwards and think about how to do it can, if you do not have a queue for their activities, immediately contact their municipality, if you have not already been contacted, and expand their activities with the number of places that you perceive you have the capacity for. It can then also be borne in mind that many of the municipal schools, in order to cope with the situation, have had to expand more than they perceive they have the capacity for. If you are interested in taking responsibility and do not have a queue for the business, just contact your municipality. It is important to point that out. Many free schools do not actually have queues for their activities. Here we are talking about the part that has it. When it comes to free schools with queues, we agree that we should change the rules in such a way that those who want to take responsibility have the opportunity to take part in taking the responsibility they want to take. What has happened, on the one hand, since we identified the issue and, on the other hand, since the conclusion of the Migration Agreement? We have carried out a number of legal investigations on the basis of which we find that the law must be amended. That's the foundation. Of course, the best thing would have been if we had been able to handle the law in different ways so that it did not have to be changed. Then it would have gone much faster. We have also looked at the question raised by Erik Bengtzboe and the National Association of Free Schools about setting up a pilot project. The thing is, the government can't have a trial on how to do things outside the law. Tests must also be carried out within the framework of legislation. This will cause exactly the same problems with a trial as if you were opening up at large. Then we have come to the conclusion that the quickest thing we can do is to produce legislation that can come into effect next autumn. Anyone who knows how the legislative process is done realises that there will be a very rapid investigation looking at the proposal that the National Associations of Free Schools have produced. Then you find out what the municipalities say and try to get the law in place by next autumn. Then it should be noted – something that is not always stated by the Minister in this type of discussion – that a great deal of our legislation in the field of free school has emerged because municipalities and free schools have challenged applicable law. Is there anyone who makes law interpretation possible and who has a good collaboration with free schools and even now lets free schools go in, it would be interesting to see what that law interpretation would look like and how one then chooses to act. From next autumn we hope that legislation will be in place that is made possible according to the legal interpretation that we have done.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-718	Mr President, I would like to In fact, there is an opening– I do not know if it was the one that the Government was thinking about – which is that it would be perfectly possible to have independent schools take care of preparation classes even if there are no places. In this way you can be a little creative, but that presupposes that there is a good relationship between the municipality and the free school. Based on previous interpellation debates, this is not always the case because you can end up in various legal proceedings. As of 1 January, new legislation will come into force on aid housing for unaccompanied refugee children, which is extremely gratifying because it does not seem reasonable to place these children in HVB homes. Here another variant has been found that will benefit those children. A new law will be introduced from 1 March. That is the law of instruction that we agreed on in the Migration Agreement. Supported housing was not included as this process started earlier, but the guidance act was agreed in connection with the Migration Agreement. It's nothing that came about before. This legislation, which is much more dramatic and where there are far more opinions, pitfalls and other things, was managed to bring it into effect from 1 March. Everyone seems to agree, the free schools want that law, and it should be relatively straightforward compared to a law of instruction. I still cannot understand why not even the investigation into what it might look like that the free schools could receive within a free quota is not even started. I find that a little strange. Everyone seems to agree on this. But nothing's happening. Given the situation we are in, there is no room for waiting. As soon as the initiative came, the freshness was already in place before the migration agreement was completed. It was included in the migration agreement and it was said that it would of course include the opportunity for free schools to accept new arrivals. Actually, there was a basis for setting up the investigation at once. The free schools had already concluded that this could not be done within the framework of the law. I still find it extremely difficult to understand that it will take so long. I also know that legislation takes time, but we are in an exceptional situation. If you can get something as dramatic as an instruction proposal by 1 March, I do not understand why this should be delayed until 1 July. It doesn't make any sense. We all need good powers. We need to open up the opportunities for independent schools to be involved in taking responsibility more quickly than 1 July.
i-RuUiPBX5wkEdF5rKmF4DU	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. We are in a situation that is changing very quickly from day to day. The resources must be used in the most effective way both to protect taxpayers and to ensure that we can do what is most humane for people and provide the support that is possible as quickly as possible. In such situations, it is frustrating when the legislative process takes so long. If you run a free school, if you are the principal and want to do something tomorrow, you will be told that this opportunity will open up in a year, I understand that you feel frustration. Every week that you can hijack matters and makes a difference. Therefore, it would be good if the government in the future chose to seek less conventional solutions with the actors that exist and work actively with school agencies, with school inspections, with free schools, with municipalities to see what kind of collaboration is best suited and how to solve this as effectively as possible, not only when it comes to student places. It is also necessary to look at how to unpretentiously solve this with teacher skills and everything around it. I assume the government does. With regard to the queue principle for admission to schools and the fact that many schools' permits are based on the use of the queue principle, it is a system that is now really showing its weak side. It is very possible that it is possible to get around the system and in that case it is welcome – I think that is a good thing to say. So there is a restraint over the system. When you look at it, it would be good if you looked at the possibility of building some kind of flexibility into the system, not just to deal with the kind of situations that we are in right now where it is a matter of quickly making room for many. It is simply a question of integrating in a good way all the schools that exist in the free-choice system that we have in Swedish school. In the previous interpellation debate, we discussed this with Swedish parents and students, regardless of their party political affiliation, wanting to be able to choose their own school according to studies. But we also know historically that the system that we have in Sweden today creates unnecessary segregation. There is now a housing segregation, just as it was right up to the 1990s, which determines far too much which school to attend. Part of that concern depends on the queue system. Then it will automatically be those who have long lived in the area who get priority, regardless of which school it is about. It is now possible to seek flexibility which will give parents confidence in a system in which freedom of choice is safeguarded and which creates a certain degree of mobility. I hope that the government will take this with it in that work. Even if it is not possible to get it in place through a quick investigation, it may be an opening to further develop freedom of choice in the Swedish school.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-731	Mr President, I would like to If I understood the argument correctly, I can say that the use of a queue is not the only way to have a free choice of school. In the light of other discussions that we have had, I think that was a very wise observation. There, we are likely to find a common basis for other discussions as well. I cannot accept the comparison made by Maria Stockhaus with the Instructions Act. The instructions were an election promise from our parties who are in the government. Work on developing a departmental spromemoria began as soon as we formed a government. Before the migration agreement was concluded, the memorandum had been referred, the response from the SKL was submitted and we had also secured a parliamentary majority with the People's Party one month before the migration agreement had changed its feet and said that it was in favour of such legislation. This process has, of course, gone on much longer before this problem was even identified by the free schools. If we get a new legislation in place, it will not be, as Erik Bengtzboe says, in a year's time, but if – as we say in the school world – a semester. Then we have pushed the timetable from identifying a problem to having a proposal on the table to having new legislation. The timetable is so tight that I cannot promise the Riksdag that it will last in every detail. This is one of the most pressing timetables I have seen when it comes to drafting legislation in accordance with the rules on processing obligations which, after all, exist. This is such a complicated issue that we have to stick to the rules. I can tell you that you don't sit here waiting. Everyone who works in Swedish schools is now working extremely hard, at least at the schools that take the greatest responsibility. You work hard to meet students whose first year has meant war and escape. Teachers, principals, municipal officials and the free schools that share responsibility do a huge job. And I want them to know that we actually do it at the Department of Education, too. I have presented a long series of initiatives to the committee today. There is work going on to enable us to provide the best support we can ever give to those who are now carrying out the greatest humanitarian effort in Swedish history since the end of the Second World War. That's our job. That's how we can handle this situation. Part of this is of course that free schools, including free schools with queues, should be able to take responsibility. For that to be possible, we need to change the legislation.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-736	Mr President, I would like to Nevertheless, I can see that this investigation is not in place, despite the fact that it is one month since the agreement on migration was concluded. The National Associations of Free Schools also paid attention to this before then, so there was every opportunity to get to grips with it much earlier than is now the case. Something that I think is extremely important, given previous discussions in this House on the replacement of independent schools, is that, unfortunately, many municipalities, precisely in the case of children who need extra support, whatever the reason for it, do not really send with the same money that they do if they go into their own business. If you now set up an investigation, I think it is important that you are very clear that these students should have the same kind of compensation that they would have had if they went to a municipal school. In view of the way in which children are treated in need of special support in the municipalities today, I am concerned about the free schools. When they open their hearts and want to help and take responsibility, it is important that they are given the right conditions in order to be able to carry out that task in a good way. It's very important that there's time. I still find it unfortunate that it is taking some time, given that this has been highlighted in the past. There are good initiatives from the National Association of Free Schools, which has a more or less ready-made proposal. I hope that this will be done as quickly as possible, so that we can get it up in this House and that it will start by 1 July next year at the latest.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-739	Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would just like to thank the Government for its answer and wish you luck. It's a special situation, and you have a lot of work to do at the Department of Education. I won't take your time too much for nothing. I have received an answer to my question and am satisfied. Have a good night.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-740	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the interpellants for a good exchange of views. I promise that we will implement this as quickly as the Swedish legislative process allows.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-741	Mr President, I would like to Jenny Petersson has asked me what concrete changes I and the government intend to make with regard to SFI teaching and how I will ensure that the quality of SFI teaching is ensured. The questions are raised in the light of the fact that the government is now opening the way for asylum seekers to be educated as well. I assume that the teaching in Swedish for asylum seekers that Jenny Petersson refers to is the special public education effort for asylum seekers and some other new arrivals that study associations can provide and that is financed by state grants that are distributed by the Council of Folkbildningsrådet in dialogue with the Migration Agency. This is a teaching that provides an opportunity for people to start learning Swedish and strengthen their knowledge of Swedish society even before moving into permanent housing in a municipality. It does not compete in any way for the resources for SFI education. The municipality is the principal of SFI and is responsible for ensuring that it is of high quality. This requires the availability of teachers with the right qualifications and high skills, and as Jenny Petersson points out, the lack of SFI teachers is great. Therefore, the government has in its budget bill for 2016 (prop. 2015/ 16:1) proposed that SEK 100 million be allocated for 2016 and calculated the corresponding amount per year from 2017 for efforts that will motivate more people to want to become teachers in this area and ensure that more teachers deepen their competence in the subject of Swedish as a second language. Increasing the percentage of qualified teachers is one way of maintaining and strengthening the quality of SFI teaching. Another way is to give SFI teachers skills development that allows them to better adapt their teaching to each student. The Government has therefore commissioned the Swedish National Agency for Education to produce a support material on alphabetisation. The Swedish Agency for Education is also tasked with attracting more people to want to become SFI teachers and motivating teachers working within SFI to strengthen their skills through competence development in Swedish as a second language. More people than ever before are seeking asylum in Sweden. There is intensive work going on to address the major challenges of such rapid population growth. An important part of this is to increase capacity and continue to strengthen the quality of SFI education.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-747	Mr President, I would like to As High School and Minister of Knowledge Aida Hadzialic – I always say wrong; I'm sorry, Aida! – says in his answer, I have asked what concrete changes the government intends to make in the field of SFI education. The Government has proposed a number of measures to speed up the education of refugees in Swedish. Among other things, they want to open up for asylum seekers to receive education. I very much welcome that. I like that thinking. But that also makes my question even more justified. Now that there are more people who need the support of SFI teachers, on whom the shortage is already great, I wonder what further proposals or changes are coming. I do not think that what the government is saying is enough. I'm not the only one who's worried about this. Among other things, Marcus Strömberg, CEO of Academedia, who is one of the largest players in the SFI industry, has expressed his concern in Dagens Industri about the lack of SFI teachers. He believes that there is a need to train more teachers. This affects the quality of the pupils to be taught. It is also already an unequal distribution of SFI supply between Sweden's municipalities. This needs to be addressed, I believe. In addition, flexibility must be increased. There is a need for a re-examination in the SFI field. For example, we in the Moderates have put forward a proposal for SFI at a distance. I know it's happening. But it's also about teaching via the web and at uncomfortable times. It's very important. You should be able to take courses and move on. I know that is already possible and that these are proposals. But, as I said, more proposals are needed in this area. I therefore again wonder what more concrete proposals Aida Hadzialic intends to implement.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-751	Mr President, I would like to I thank Jenny Petersson for the interpellation and the supplementary question. First of all, it can be said that the government has been given a tough legacy to deal with. In recent years, the situation for SFI education has been tough. There has been a great shortage of teachers. But--the hand on the heart--it's been for many years. I do not want to point my finger in any direction, but I simply note that there have been problems for this operation for a very long time, despite the fact that the efforts made by teachers, principals and others at school daily are very good. As I said, we have a shortage of teachers that has lasted a very long time. The problem has intensified as a result of all the new arrivals that are coming. What the government has already done, only in the first year since we took office and despite the parliamentary situation, is that we have introduced something called Swedish from day one, which means that new arrivals will learn Swedish already during the asylum period. They also get social orientation, so that they learn more about Swedish society. We now know that more than 40 000 individuals have been given the opportunity to do so. It's a fantastic effort. Language is the key to society. We have also set aside resources, as I described. It is 100 million to increase the recruitment of more teachers and give more opportunities to qualify. We have made the SFI more vocational so that people can read Swedish while they are studying, for example, an education to become welders or construction workers so that new arrivals can establish themselves in society even faster. We are now preparing proposals for the construction of a nationally coherent validation system. I hope to be able to come back to that at the beginning of next year. Sub-components will be published as early as this autumn. Already in the first year since the government took office, much has been done which I believe will be important for us to be able to take a step forward for the SFI business. We have also commissioned the Swedish National Agency for Education to develop a digitalisation strategy that includes preschool and comprehensive school, but also a specific strategy for upper secondary and adult education. It's about seeing how digital tools can be used even better to make teaching more qualitative. This, of course, also benefits the SFI students and the SFI education.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-760	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answers, Aida Hadzialic. You answered, among other things, the question of flexibility, distance learning via the web and uncomfortable working hours. These are steps in the right direction. In Halland they work with what Aida highlighted. It will take effect from New Year's. A working method is being developed with study circles where people from day one will receive direct social information. That is a step in the right direction. On the other hand, the situation is strained with regard to SFI. It sounds like the government says the situation is under control. I do not agree that the situation is under control. You have to do more. It is good that the government is now gaining control. For example, the new Act on SFI and adult education will start to apply on 1 January 2016. That is why it is very important for the government to gain control of the situation. I know that SFI teachers work very hard and do everything they can to contribute to what they should do in teaching the profession. That is absolutely not what my questions are about. Rather, it is what government officials are doing in this area. Aida also mentions that there should be a validation nationally. It is another moderate proposal that the Swedish School Inspectorate must be given the opportunity to review all the education within the framework of SFI in order to strengthen the education so that you do not have the inequality in the failing quality in Sweden around the municipalities. There are some suggestions that I highlighted that should be worked on. Sounds like the government thinks it's in control. But I'm worried about the situation. We must not have an increasing exclusion, but rather a reduced exclusion. Here SFI and language are a very important key. Even more bridges between the labour market and the SFI can also be built. I'm a little curious. Are there any concrete proposals on how to work on bridges between the labour market and the SFI? It has proved to be a key in this area.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-768	Mr President, I would like to Just like I said before, we've made the SFI more professional. People should be able to combine their language education with vocational training in a different way than has been the case in the past. This will shorten the start-up period. We have made sure that new arrivals will learn Swedish from day one. We are expanding that capacity even more. Last Thursday, the Minister of Finance reported that we are now spending even more resources on the expansion of the business. We also intend to ensure that the capacity of adult education as a whole is significantly expanded. In the 2016 budget bill, we say that we want to build the vocational school by 20 percent. We know that nine out of ten people who get through such an education get a job afterwards. It will mean a lot to the new arrivals but also to many others. We want to ensure that vocational adult education and training is given permanent and long-term opportunities for everyone to have the opportunity to enter vocational upper secondary education. I would also like to ensure that everyone has a chance to enter upper secondary education in general. That is not the case today. It depends on where you live or where you live. It's very crucial if you're going to be able to complete upper secondary school education. We know that more than 400 000 individuals are currently covered by the problem. Those who have not completed upper secondary school also find it very difficult to establish themselves in the labour market. By implementing all these reforms that I am now talking about, which are funded in the government budget bill, we will ensure that the link between establishment and the functioning of the labour market will be strengthened. I look with faith at many of the things that we are now doing. Then the question was whether we are now in control of the situation. That's what I'd like to say. The situation is strained. As I said, the problem has existed for many years. Now there are more people coming than ever. In principle, I receive daily reports from the department where the situation is monitored throughout the country. It is believed that our heroes as teachers and business representatives make it go together in a good way. But it's not said that we can't and should do more, because we will.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-776	Mr President, I would like to The Minister for Upper Secondary Education and Knowledge Aida Hadzialic, as Minister for Labour Ylva Johansson has said on several occasions, says that the professional programmes are needed and are good and that they should grow. At the same time, recent figures show that, on the contrary, they are decreasing. My question is: what is the Minister doing about this? Then Aida Hadzialic talks about the heroes, the SFI teachers. I have one more question. Why aren't SFI teachers included in the teacher's salary lift?
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-777	Mr President, I would like to The situation is that the resources are limited, Jenny Petersson. The government is currently prioritising an increase in the salaries of primary and secondary school teachers. The school in general has a very large shortage of teachers. It is expected that 65 000 teachers will be missing by 2020. If the trend does not change, we will probably have a major problem ahead of us. We must ensure that our children and young people are given the very best conditions. It is the teacher who is the key to knowledge. That is why the government is now making sure that we are giving teachers a reward for the effort they are making. We therefore also want to make the profession more attractive. My immediate thought when Jenny Petersson asks the question is: Why don't the Moderates make any efforts at all to raise the salaries of the teachers? Can Jenny Petersson answer that question?
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-779	Mr President, I would like to Lotta Finstorp has asked me what measures I and the government intend to take to remedy the lack of SFI teachers and how I intend to ensure that the quality of SFI teaching is maintained. Like Lotta Finstorp, I am convinced that a good language education improves the opportunity for foreign born people to establish themselves in Swedish society and in the labour market. The government wants Swedish education for immigrants (sfi) to be of high quality. In order for SFI education to be able to do so, it is necessary that there are teachers, and that these teachers have the right qualifications and a high level of competence. It is a major concern that there is a lack of qualified SFI teachers. In order to remedy this deficiency, two things are needed: on the one hand, more people have to choose to become teachers, and on the other hand, those unauthorised SFI teachers who are already teaching in SFIs have to be trained to become qualified. In order for more people to choose to become SFI teachers, the status and attractiveness of the entire teaching profession needs to be strengthened. The Government therefore intends to focus on how more paths can be created into the teaching profession, but also that those who are already teachers should choose to stay in the profession. The Government has also commissioned the Swedish National Board of Education to work with attracting more people to want to become SFI teachers. The work includes that the Swedish National Agency for Education will also motivate teachers who currently work in SFI and Swedish as a second language in municipal adult education to deepen their competence in the subject of Swedish as a second language. In this way, we can increase the ability of training providers to recruit qualified teachers. In order for more of those who are already working as teachers in SFI to become competent, the Swedish parliament, on the Government's proposal, has strengthened the initiative Teacher Lift II. The initiative provides qualified teachers with an opportunity to become eligible for the education they conduct. The increased level of remuneration for education in Swedish as a second language gives more SFI teachers the opportunity to study the subject Swedish as a second language, which is a subject that is necessary for teaching SFI. Increasing the percentage of qualified teachers is one way of maintaining and strengthening the quality of SFI teaching. Another way is to give SFI teachers the opportunity to develop their skills so that they can better adapt their teaching to each student. The Government has therefore commissioned the Swedish National Agency for Education to produce support material on alphabetisation that can be of support and help for teachers who will teach students who cannot read and write. Finally, on the basis of the current situation of increasing refugee migration, the government will continue to pay great attention to the SFI.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-787	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. According to Dagens Nyheter the other day, the OECD estimates that the many refugees who come to Europe will benefit the economy in both the short and long term. They expect the European economy to grow by 0.1 - 0.2%, that is, more than usual, over the next two years. However, for positive growth to become a reality for Sweden, pressure on public finances must be short-lived. A basic prerequisite is increased and faster integration and a solution-focused, alert government. Swedbank shows in an analysis that it takes an average of seven years for a new arrival to enter the labour market. Unless integration speeds up, growth risks slowing down in the longer term. Validation of vocational training and academic degrees takes too long today. Swedbank's conclusion in the analysis is that more internships must be added and the costs for employees kept down. One of the questions I have is how the Government sees this particular conclusion: that more internships must come to and that the costs of employees must be kept down. Since Sweden has demographic challenges and since new arrivals are on average younger than the Swedish population, for example, the Deputy Governor of the Riksbank states that the new arrivals will strengthen the Swedish welfare system with their labour force and thus as taxpayers. This means that integration must be much faster. It is desirable that this should go faster than the seven years currently average. An essential key to the labour market is the Swedish language. Therefore Swedish for immigrants must be provided with high quality and individual curricula. New arrivals are by no means a homogeneous group. All come with different knowledge and different experiences. If you come from countries that have been at war for many years, you may not have any actual schooling with you at all in your luggage. All of this we in Sweden must relate to. These challenges require individual solutions in both the long and short term. Individualized SFI, rapid validation and more internships are some important factors for increased integration. However, the lack of qualified SFI teachers is already evident, and it will be even greater because we see that we have large flows of refugees. Nor do we see that they will be slowed down by the front, but rather increase. My question is: does the Government know how many SFI teachers will need to be recruited in the near future if we see one or perhaps two years ahead? Just as previous interpellant Jenny Petersson said, it is unfortunate that Sfi teachers and Komvux teachers are not included in the teacher's salary lift. This could increase attractiveness and encourage more people to choose this profession. I also have a question concerning professional programmes in high school. We see that they continue to decline. So fewer students want to go to vocational programmes even though many of the shortage professions are there. The preparatory language introduction for newly arrived students is increasing significantly, and even here we need qualified staff. What steps will the Government take to get more pupils to choose their professional programmes? Then it is also a question of professional adult life. So this applies to both young people and adults who come and where we see that there are shortages.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-795	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Lotta Finstorp! I'll start where you left off. What do we do about vocational training in general? We know they're an important key to jobs. This is the case both in the case of high school youth and in the case of adults who want to get through vocational training. First of all: When it comes to upper secondary school, we have seen a trend over many years that has intensified in recent years where fewer and fewer students choose practical education. This is a major concern both for the individual, as vocational training leads to jobs, and for the supply of skills in the labour market. I believe that the most important thing we can do is to talk about the status of these training courses and not continue to stigmatise them, as has been the case when we talk about this as a separate solution for some rather than a main option for everyone. As regards vocational training for adults, the government is now working on a broad front to build up the capacity of universities of applied sciences, vocational adult education and training. We have turned the SFI into more vocational – all to give the individual better chances in the labour market. But it is also a question of providing skills for employers who want to recruit. This reform work has already been initiated. If the Riksdag chooses to stick through the Government's budget, we will see changes in this area. Just as I described to my colleague Jenny Petersson, the government has done quite a lot over the past year to ensure that you learn the Swedish language faster but also to improve the validation process. These two things are connected. We have introduced Swedish from day one, and we are investing SEK 100 million in recruiting more SFI teachers and making them eligible. As I said, we have made the SFI more vocational and are now working on developing a national validation strategy. It's a package to be presented soon. Is this enough? No, I think it's a first step. We have a big problem to deal with. It is a historic problem, and it has intensified even more as it is now. I got a specific question from Lotta Finstorp: Do we know how many SFI teachers are missing? We know that the SFI classes are at least one third larger than the usual classes in terms of adult education, so we know that there is a great need. I've asked for exact numbers, but I haven't got them yet. You haven't had that kind of mapping. But we know, as I said, that there is a great need and that the figures are growing. I hope that we will be able to get concrete figures soon. The problem is that the situation is changing almost daily, and the need is increasing. We can probably expect the volumes to be in a rapid pace of change now. As you probably know, my colleague Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson is working intensively to recruit internships and trainee positions, and more so as to give newcomers a chance to gain work experience and thus become more employable, while combining this with education. We believe that these are important keys for moving forward, and I hope that we can find each other across block borders to meet the challenges we face.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-802	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for answering my questions! There's a problem with the lack of SFI teachers. It may not be urgent today, but in the future, in just six months' time, it will be even more difficult. The integration that we need to speed up and that requires good Swedish knowledge becomes much more difficult when there is a great shortage of teachers. Since everyone comes with such different knowledge and experience of studying in the luggage, the teaching needs to be individualised by, for example, dividing classes into smaller groups. When I taught newcomers in psychology at Komvux in the early 90's, the prerequisite was to be able to conduct a good education that everyone could assimilate to divide classes into groups. It could be a spread from the one who had a doctorate in his home country to the one who was illiterate and had never studied. I'm worried that when the shortage is so great--I know it's a huge challenge to get more qualified SFI teachers, and I'm very humble in this-- the groups are at risk of becoming large and mixed, and then integration will take even longer. What I am also thinking about is that, in this crisis situation, the government is choosing to increase the wage tax for older people rather than giving employers incentives to encourage older people to work longer. Senior teachers and principals could make significant efforts for new arrivals and also feel that they are still doing a great deal of good with their knowledge. My experience is that many new arrivals have an incredible study motivation in order to quickly get into society. For an older teacher, this may be the cream on the cake, because it is very nice and you can make friends for life and so on. Now the government has removed the incentive for employers to keep these older teachers. I think it's a mistake. I think that we need to think as a whole when we now have such great challenges with regard to the large influx of refugees. Instead, you have to think outside the box and open it all. I know that there are teachers who would be happy to go back to the profession, but then it is important that employers also want to hire them again. This could be one way of getting a greater number of teachers to face up to this challenge. Then there are other proposals. On the government table are 125 announcements from the Riksdag. Among them are many important proposals to meet these societal challenges in both the long and short term. I mentioned the validation model earlier, and I know that the Minister has also talked about it. We need to get a much smoother validation model in place. It is often the Swedish language that is the obstacle, and you may have a high level of education from your home country. It's taking way too long now. We have a shortage of doctors and nurses; that's not news. We have been standing in this House for many years talking about the fact that validation takes far too long. The National Board of Health and Welfare does not have enough officers and investigators. It could be faster to get those who have an academic degree in shortage professions through a faster validation model. How does the Minister feel about that?
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-809	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your comments, Lotta Finstorp! Believe me, I really want the validation system to improve. It was one of the things I began my minister's time taking hold of. I do this because I understand what it means both for the individual and for the labour market, but I have also seen it at close range. My mother, a lawyer and judge, works in a preschool. She says: My great favor is when I learn these little children mathematics. My father, who is an economist, works as a cleaner because he has not had his knowledge validated. He's one of the most skilled mathematicians I know. There the validation process has really broken, and I feel it both in my brain through what I see and hear and in my heart. I think we really need to work on many different fronts to make the validation system better. It is about making this system as transparent as possible to the individual. In order to shorten the validation process as much as possible, we need to work both to provide authorities with better resources, for example so that the National Board of Health and Welfare's processing times can be shortened and that by sewing the systems together and making them more transparent so that they dock in each other. Now the system is a bit of a jungle. It sprawles depending on industries and levels and in which part of the country someone should be validated in. This must become more coherent, and the complexity requires a proper processing process, which the government has really focused on during the year that has passed. Suggestions will come, and I ask for a few more weeks of patience. Then I certainly do not think it will be the answer to everything, but it will be the beginning of something that we need to get to. If I'm going to problematize and politicise this – I think we agree with each other quite a lot – Lotta Finstorp knows that the government's view is that reduced taxes do not solve all our problems. We inherited an unemployment rate of 7%, and the results of knowledge declined despite historical tax cuts. Instead, we believe in investing in universities of applied sciences, for example, where we know that nine out of ten people who get through the education get jobs. It's a wise social investment. When we give everyone the opportunity to complete high school, we double their chances of becoming employees. When we ensure that vocational adult education and training is given permanent and long-term opportunities, our newcomers, for example by combining SFI with vocational training, have the opportunity to become employable. It is through this kind of effort that we make people employable while providing for the workforce that the labour market requires. There are dividing lines here, but I still hope that we will be able to find each other even though we may have different views on certain issues.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-815	Mr President, I would like to Perhaps I may remind the Minister of the 2008 recession, which caused us to have many unemployed in Sweden. In the whole of the world there were many unemployed, and it has taken time to catch up. I'd like to continue talking about the validation. I think that those who are new arrivals and have an academic degree in a profession that in Sweden is a shortage profession due to demographic challenges must be caught up much earlier. At our refugee camps, people who have these academic degrees in our deficiency professions are now waiting for months to get a first call from the administrator at the Migration Agency to get into the validation system after a long time. This has to go a lot faster. In our moderate budget exercise there are increased resources for validation of newcomers' competence and Swedish teaching. Already at the asylum accommodation you should do this competence survey. I think you have to think outside the box. There are many smart solutions. I read about 15,000 young refugees in Germany studying at Kiron University. They are connected to Howard, Stanford and Yale, and there are engineers, economists, sociologists of the future and so on. You have to think new and think completely outside the box compared to how we have worked before. There are many things that are positive in the wake of the refugee crisis, and one such thing is that we are forced here in Sweden not to think in drainpipes but instead in gutters between the different policy areas. Otherwise, we will never get through the situation. I would like to hear a little more specifically how more paths can be created into the teaching profession and, above all, to the SFI teacher training.
i-3ac111c9dd98e612-820	Mr President, I would like to First of all, it was the issue of the financial crisis – whether we should now go back to that sequence. It is not a question of discussing the economic policy to be pursued, but rather of saying something about the role of education in the functioning of the economy. Studies and reports have evaluated what caused our Swedish economy to float quite well and that unemployment was still being pushed back. It is believed that it was because there was an adult education that allowed people to change. When they lost a job, they were able to requalify and take new jobs. This gave us a recession in the economy but still a labour market that bounced back in a good way, given that people could requalify themselves. This is what I want to reinforce even more. We need an economy with good resilience. Then we need to expand the capacity for adult education, for universities of applied sciences and more, so that people can take the jobs that exist. The labour market both now and in the future will mean that sectors will come and go. The labour force must then be able to match the demand on the labour market. My generation will not have to change jobs perhaps five times in our lifetime, but perhaps ten times, even between different industries. Then the tool adult education and university of applied sciences is extremely important for this kind of re-qualification.
