i-059853a7a84dd612-4	Mr President, I would like to Saila Quicklund has asked me what measures I intend to take in order for the government to live up to the goal that the whole of Sweden should live. First of all, I would like to say that rural areas face major challenges but also have good opportunities. One of the government's overall objectives is that Sweden will have the lowest unemployment rate by 2020. This requires a viable and active rural environment. The government wants to seize rural opportunities and combine environmentally sustainable development with economic growth – green growth – which provides the conditions for increased employment and confidence in the future throughout the country. As Saila Quicklund points out, tourism is important for Sweden, and not least for the countryside. The tourism industry is creating more and more jobs around Sweden. In the Budget Bill, the Government proposes investments in the tourism industry with a focus on nature and ecotourism, investments in the development of sustainable export mature growth destinations and marketing of Sweden abroad. The government has also recently launched a maritime strategy in which tourism is an important part. Green industries should be viable, drive innovation and contribute to climate change and sustainable use of natural resources. Important tools are, for example, the work on the national food strategy and the national forestry programme. Both of these jobs have the potential to generate more jobs and living rural areas. The policy in the rural area consists, among other things, of measures in the Swedish Rural Development Programme. The programme includes measures to strengthen agricultural and other rural businesses, environmental and climate measures and measures to improve the quality of life in rural areas. The Government also pursues a modern and active regional growth policy aimed at giving the regions opportunities to grow and develop according to their specific conditions. It contributes to jobs and sustainable growth in all parts of the country, both in cities and rural areas. These include access to resources under the regional Structural Funds programmes, commercial service activities and regional business support. Today, however, a coherent policy for Sweden's rural areas is lacking. To lay the foundations for such a policy, a policy for long-term sustainable development in Sweden's rural areas, the government has set up a parliamentary committee. The Committee shall make proposals for policies that create the conditions for growth, entrepreneurship, employment, attractiveness and housing in rural areas. This important work is part of my and the government's efforts towards development, active entrepreneurship and jobs throughout the country.
i-059853a7a84dd612-10	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister for Rural Development, for your answer. It becomes very clear how big the dividing lines of rural policy are between the government parties and the Moderates. I would like to give a brief description of my rural reality. For a start, the countryside stands completely still without the car. The government's announced increases on diesel with 60 øre and petrol with 55 øre plus a truck tax that means that a truck owner will have increased costs by 140 000 SEK per truck hit the countryside very hard. We need a living countryside with a strong forest industry, a strong tourism industry, food security and much more. By making it more expensive to hire young people, to drive a car, to drive agriculture and to transport goods, jobs are at risk of dramatically decreasing. I think we've all taken note of the plight of the dairy farmers. It couldn't have gone by many times. For dairy farmers, the increase in diesel and petrol taxes puts an already serious situation at risk of becoming even worse. Tax payers have calculated in a report that those who most need the car between 2016 and 2018 will have a total increased cost of petrol of at least SEK 8 150. The government seems to have forgotten that the car is not a choice but that it is a must in rural areas. I am absolutely convinced that the Minister for Rural Development also knows that many people need two cars. In addition, the Government ignores the fact that the cost of driving is not only dependent on petrol and fuel costs as a whole. According to Swedbank's standard estimate for a new car that costs SEK 240 00 0 and is driven 1,500 km per year, the cost per mile is SEK 52.60. In addition, we all heard that Stefan Löfven and Magdalena Andersson promised loudly before the elections that petrol prices would not be raised, they were already high as they were. This is another of the many promises made by the government, as we can see. It is now less profitable to work and more expensive to live in rural areas, and that certainly does not contribute to more jobs or to living rural areas. We do not really lack challenges in rural areas, and this is a hard blow to people who often already have small margins and who are completely dependent on the car to get to work, to Fritis and to sports activities. I'm in the cross-country industry, driving my kids about five and a hundred miles per workout. Add food purchases and social activities. My question to the Minister for Rural Development is obvious: Is the Minister for Rural Development really aware of these challenges? If he is, how can he pursue such an anti-rural policy?
i-059853a7a84dd612-18	Mr President, I would like to I asked for the floor because I think that Saila Quicklund is raising an extremely important topic about how the whole of Sweden should live. Many of us have our roots in the countryside and ask us that question. It spans many policy areas, and we must be able to see the whole picture here. I hope that Sven-Erik-Erik Bucht, as Minister for Rural Affairs, feels a special responsibility to pursue these issues in government contexts. Other ministers may also be involved in this. There is, of course, a lot about general measures. However, the starting point must be that there are very different conditions in different parts of the country. That is something you have to take with you when you propose various measures. Fuel taxation is both an economic instrument and a fiscal instrument to make the budget go together. The fuel tax increases now proposed involve a direct penalty tax in rural areas. They discourage growth and jobs in rural areas. One could say that people should travel collectively, but we all know that public transport is not actually a major option in rural areas. There are of course public transport, but if you are to be able to work and go to different activities it is very complicated. The car is absolutely vital in rural areas. There is another very important issue that is also raised here. As a resident, it is known that the tourism industry is constantly growing. It is greatly underestimated in the general discussion, I think. You can look at the export value. The consumption of foreign tourists in Sweden is close to 100 billion. This can be compared with things that most people probably think are very important for Sweden, such as iron and steel exports. It's just over half of this. There is an extremely great potential here, especially for rural areas. Another area that is completely vital to rural areas is the infrastructure. The debate now focuses a lot on rail and rail maintenance. That, of course, is quite right after decades of neglected maintenance. We need to make our railroad work. But that does not mean that the roads must be hidden. I would very much urge the government, in a future discussion on the infrastructure bill and other things, to bear in mind that the roads are the cornerstone of rural infrastructure. What is sometimes referred to as the fifth mode of transport, IT and broadband, which has not been mentioned here before, is also a very important factor to have with you. While we are talking about infrastructure, I can mention the proposal to introduce heavier and longer lorries, which the Alliance Government made a very ambitious advance work on. It will have a major impact on employment in rural areas. We are quite close to being able to introduce heavy goods vehicles of 74 tonnes. But even longer trucks, which are important not least for the forest industry, are something that we must continue to work on. This spans many areas, but of course the Minister for Rural Development has a special responsibility.
i-059853a7a84dd612-25	Mr President, I would like to I thank you for this important interpellation debate on how the whole of Sweden should live. It is very exciting to listen, but I am surprised when Members Saila Quicklund and Lars Tysklind make over the whole question of the future of the countryside and be or not to be about driving on petrol or diesel. It is not a measure of how good rural policy is. The real challenge is to get away from fossil dependence. Then the countryside must also be involved. Having a fossil-free vehicle fleet is something that benefits us all. In fact, it was the Alliance that adopted the vision of a fossil-independent vehicle fleet in 2030, and it was already in 2009. It is a vision that we welcome, but what has happened since then? How are we gonna get there? In order to invest in the transport of the future, we also need to start working on it and get funds for it. I believe that rural issues have long been given priority during the time of the Alliance. As I said, rural issues are so much more than just the price of petrol. We see fewer rural schools, fewer libraries and even fewer farmers. It is not that they are starting to close now, but it has been happening for a long time. The countryside is defoliated, and it has happened during the time of the Alliance, with the good memory of both the People's Party and the Moderates. This is now trying to turn this government around. It's about having good living conditions throughout the country. There's got to be a grocery store. That is why this government is increasing support for commercial services, so that the country trade can remain. Then you may not have to go those 40 miles to the nearest shopping mall, but you may travel a short distance to the nearest grocery store by bicycle or car. This support has not been listed for many years. We have also set up an investigation into how state agencies' presence should look like throughout Sweden. It was our Minister of Civil Affairs Ardalan Shekarabi who gave this assignment to Statskontoret. What we see is that government jobs disappear first from the countryside. This has also happened during the time of the Alliance and with their good memory. We are now trying to sort this out. Perhaps relocations can be made so that you can live in the countryside without having to go so far to work. We also invest heavily in schools. I believe in these efforts and all the other things that our Rural Minister referred to earlier. We have a food strategy with a long-term vision for food production in Sweden. It is also parliamentary – all parties are involved, because we think this is so important that it should not just become party politics. We need to have long-term rules. I wonder how Saila Quicklund and Lars Tysklind think when they downprioritisate the countryside and reduce it to a bat in the debate on petrol tax.
i-059853a7a84dd612-30	Mr President, I would like to Saila Quicklund tries to make a real description of the development that is taking place in the Swedish countryside. Unfortunately, she does not include any self-examination in that description. In many respects, I agree with her. It has become very tough in the Swedish countryside during the Alliance's eight years of rule. After these eight years, there's a lot that's been undone. Emma Nohrén was at the rural shops. Under the rule of the alliance government, rural shops have been more than halved. More than 300 farms have been closed down per year during these eight years. During eight years of alliance rule, the gas and diesel tax has been increased four times by a total of SEK 1.48. However, no compensation has been provided for the green industries operating in Swedish rural areas. On the contrary, during these eight years the diesel tax reduction has been reduced from SEK 2.38 to SEK 90. It is directly anti-business and strikes at rural businesses. Under the government Persson, an increased basic deduction of SEK 5 000 for people living in Swedish countryside was introduced. The first thing the Alliance government did was to remove that basic deduction. It is clear that this affects people living in Swedish countryside. What has this government been doing for less than a year? Tomorrow's been a year. One thing we put in place immediately was the work to develop a national food strategy. It has a lot of bearing in Swedish countryside. It is about primary production, agriculture, horticulture and coastal fishing. It is also about the food industry, which creates a great deal of employment and is often rural. We work very intensively with the national forestry programme. It is very much about jobs in Swedish rural areas both directly in the forest and in the industry that takes care of the raw materials. We have set up a parliamentary committee. It has never happened in Sweden before that a comprehensive approach to rural policy has been taken. There we invite all parties to participate in that discussion. The first question I get from companies in Swedish countryside when I visit them is: How do we get the right trained staff? Here the government is putting enormous resources into labour market measures, to train people in vocational schools and to ensure that people get the skills to go on in higher education. These are issues that directly affect rural areas. I will come back with some answers to Lars Tysklind's thoughts in my next post.
i-059853a7a84dd612-37	Mr President, I would like to After Emma Nohrén's speech, it became even more clear that the Green Party absolutely does not show any understanding of the consequences of the increase in petrol and diesel taxes in rural areas. I also remember that environmental party leader Åsa Romson said that Bromma's possible closure was not a matter for any county other than Stockholm. The big city fixation is total for the Green Party. The increased employers' contributions for young people that the government has now reintroduced will hit our counties tremendously and perhaps especially Jämtland County. It is regrettable that the government itself says in its budget that the tax increases are estimated to contribute to a reduction in labour supply. It is therefore self-evident that labour supply will be reduced. According to the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, it is about 19,000 jobs, as was pointed out at the beginning of the year. According to the Swedish Enterprise and Industry Panel during the first quarter of this year, the entrepreneurs in Jämtland County said that 46 per cent of the companies will instead choose older and more experienced people, that 38 per cent of the companies will lose profitability and that 12 per cent would not replace the young employee who quits. These are devastating consequences for jobs and growth. It also gives a clear picture of the effects of the government's tax increases. Tourism is steadily increasing in Jämtland County and Sweden in general. In 2014, the number of guest nights increased by as much as 9 per cent, and it is a national average of 7 per cent. It is against this background that you should see the government's tax increases on jobs and entrepreneurship and announced suspensions of train traffic to Jämtland County. I am thinking of the night trains to Åre. This creates incredible uncertainty for tourism and tourism in Jämtland County, which is one of the important and few basic industries that the county has. SJ will now only drive night trains for a few weeks during the high season. We talk about summer and winter for a few weeks. It will of course be very negative for the tourism industry in our county. The tourism industry works very actively to broaden the seasons and make it attractive all year round. We should also not forget those work commuters who go to both Gothenburg and Stockholm to work. They live in Åre and work in southern Sweden. They also make it difficult for them to remain. It is striking that SJ says that it pulls in the night trains because there is no profitability when at the same time picking out 1.9 billion to cover the funding in the government budget. That's remarkable. I am concerned that the government is now removing the demand for the 20,000 police officers that the alliance government had as a goal and also reached during its time. You have to pull in 12 of the police cars in Jämtland County. We know that 12% of the country's surface area is our county. We also lose the police presence in Gäddede, Hede and Hoting. Then the demands for mobility will be even greater. It creates enormous uncertainty. I have a question for the Minister for Rural Development linked to the employer's contribution and the increases that you make and have made. How does a substantial increase in employers' contributions for young people and their ability to enter the labour market facilitate?
i-059853a7a84dd612-45	Mr President, I would like to I was a little surprised by Emma Nohrén's speech. I began by saying that one should look at the whole. It's another thing that you just bring up certain things. What Emma Nohrén talks about is much like support and grants. What I am talking about is the conditions for companies. If people are to remain in rural areas, it is absolutely crucial that there are companies in rural areas. We have talked a lot about the tourism industry. But let us not forget that the basis for rural areas is, after all, the green areal industries that both agriculture and fishing constitute. It is also a great foundation for the tourism industry. There are many different approaches to which reference is made. Working with strategies is not something that we from the People's Party think is bad. If we look at the food strategy, we have previously had a job called Matlandet Sweden, which was good in many ways. Of course we're going to have a fossil-independent vehicle fleet. That goal is fixed. But just as I said before, one must have the starting point that there are different conditions in different parts of the country. On behalf of the People's Party, we do not want to increase taxes on labour and entrepreneurship. We propose some increases in taxation in this area as an economic instrument. It's a real green tax shift. If we look at the problems of rural areas, we have a proposal to differentiate the travel allowance so that it has greater regional accuracy. In municipalities where public transport is not an option, people have a much greater opportunity to make travel deductions than in towns and cities where public transport is a real alternative. We can fully agree on a fossil-independent vehicle fleet.
i-059853a7a84dd612-50	Mr President, I would like to It was nice that we agreed that we must take the climate seriously and ensure that we have a fossil-free vehicle fleet and a fossil-free society in the future. We are faced with an incredible question of fate when it comes to the climate. I believe that all of us in here and those who listen to the debate have taken note of Johan Rockström's ideas. We can't get past the two-degree target if we're gonna make it. Even if we reach it, it will affect and become felt. We have to change society. One way to do that is green tax exchange as proposed by Lars Tysklind. By increasing taxes on what is bad for the environment, such as fossil fuels, we can invest in what is good for the environment and in that way turn into a sustainable society. Of course, the increases in the tax on fuels that are now being talked about should go back to developing new fuels and developing rural areas. They will go to roads, as we talked about before, public transport and railways. We need to get started on the transformation of society for real. The desire to leave rural areas out of this work is a mystery. We have just seen that new environmental objectives have been adopted in the world. There's been a big meeting in New York. This is an amazing development we can see. It bodes well for the Paris meeting where the world will try to agree on how to achieve the goal of not destroying the earth more than we do. It will be an exciting time to come. I believe that by shifting the focus from a matter of detail to the wider perspective, we see that it will benefit everyone.
i-059853a7a84dd612-56	Mr President, I would like to The starting point for the cooperation government in terms of the state's financial situation is that it is tough. After eight years of bourgeois governance and after a year's blockage in order to reverse the trend, you start at minus 67 billion, that is, 67 000 million. That's the point of departure. Tax cuts of 140 billion to create jobs resulted in an extremely high unemployment rate. These tax cuts of 140 billion go mainly to the big cities. The richest municipalities in the country were added 1 billion. The rural communities did not get any part of it, but they gave it to those who had the most. The starting point is therefore minus 67 billion. Increased employers' contributions for young people, which Saila Quicklund brings up, cost 17 billion per year. Each job has cost 1.2 – 1.5 million a year. All the financial experts watching this say that it's being sloppy with tax money. It's a very sloppy thing about tax money that you've spent on. These are general measures that most of the time, Saila Quicklund, will benefit the big city. Small crumbs end up in Swedish countryside. It is clear that with the policy of major tax cuts that has been pursued for many years, nothing has happened in Swedish rural areas. Then, of course, they had to remove 5 000 SEK in increased basic deductions for those living in Swedish rural areas. Something quite different was prioritised. Lars Tysklind addresses infrastructure issues. They are very important for Swedish countryside. Therefore, in addition to other infrastructure investments, we now propose 200 million in the 2015 budget proposal specifically aimed at Swedish rural areas. It is about railways, roads and public transport and improving opportunities for people living out there. The broadband initiative is another extremely important initiative. It is almost even more important than when we once electrified Swedish countryside. The regional funds contain 1.2 billion to make the local networks coherent. It is primarily about Norrland, where Saila Quicklund lives. This is the case for EUR 3.25 billion in the rural development programme, which in the last programming period was EUR 1.6 billion. This is a major effort, not to electrify, but to ensure that the Swedish countryside has modern communication. It is a prerequisite for people to live, live and work there and be able to run their businesses. With regard to rural services, the initiative will enable the shops to apply for 88 million each year to invest, change coolers and rebuild the shops. There will be 35 million in special operating grants for rural shops located in the farthest part of the Swedish countryside. This is a complete change from the policy that you pursued over eight years and which was devastating to Swedish rural areas.
i-059853a7a84dd612-62	Mr President, I would like to The Minister for Rural Development is talking about big investments. Many of them have already begun the alliance government. I would like to ask a question: can anyone from the government explain how 36 million on commercial services will be more than 100 million, as the alliance government had in the 2015 budget bill? However, there are also positive elements to what the Minister for Rural Development says. Some of which I appreciate are the parliamentary committee to be set up. Of course, we Moderates are also there, and we will be extremely strong in pursuing rural issues. The fact remains, however, the Minister for Rural Affairs: we have a weight on entrepreneurs and people living and working in rural areas. This is mainly the case, as I have said before, with the tax on petrol and diesel and the social security contribution for young people, which is now increasing by SEK 40 000 per year and employed by companies. Of course, the Moderates say no to both of these parts. We haven't mentioned RUT and ROT. Promises usually call their government the first gender equality government. Yet he is the hardest hit on women's entrepreneurship through reductions in the RUT reform also for the new arrivals. It is women and new arrivals who have been the biggest target group and who have received positive things from RUT. The farmers receive additional charges through the manure tax, which the alliance government removed but which the government now wants to introduce again. The Council of Finance Ministers is critical. They say there are 37,000 fewer jobs. The Confederation of Swedish Enterprise claims that it is about 19,000 jobs, and they are also critical. The speaking time is running out. I would like to thank the Minister for Rural Development for the debate. We will certainly have reason to come back to this very important issue for the country – the rural issue.
i-059853a7a84dd612-67	Mr President, I would like to Saila Quicklund brings up a few things that are not right at all. We have not introduced the manure tax. What we have done is that we have doubled the methane gas reduction to Swedish agriculture – doubled it! We will continue to do so. We will stimulate positive environmental measures. Saila Quicklund takes up the RUT deduction and that it has deteriorated. Yes, in so far as it is now not 50 000 per person but 25 000 per person that can be used. And yes, it has a consequence: 1% of those who have used the RUT deduction have used more than that, especially for pool cleaners and other activities, especially by millionaires. The millionaires do not need a continued tax subsidy on this. There is a difference that this government makes, and we take responsibility for that. We are going to tell you this too. This government believes in Sweden. It believes in a Sweden where you stick together – a Sweden where you do not put the countryside aside but make investments for Swedish rural areas. We are now taking the first step with the budget proposal for 2016. We should have taken the steps vigorously already with the 2015 budget bill, but unfortunately it blocked the Alliance together with the Swedish Democrats. We are now making substantial efforts on the national food strategy, the national forestry programme and the parliamentary committee. We are making huge investments in rural infrastructure via broadband and in stimulating public transport. We are investing in service points – what has been sad under the previous government. Thank you for a good debate!
i-059853a7a84dd612-71	Mr President, I would like to Jeff Ahl has asked me what concrete measures I and the government intend to take to counter the threat of military weapons being used against the forces of law and order. The fact that there are now areas of social concern that affect both social representatives and residents is deeply worrying. Such a development, which also involves the use of weapons against the actors of the rule of law, is a development which society cannot accept. Social unrest, gang crime and organised crime need to be addressed from a number of quarters. Both law enforcement and crime prevention efforts must be intensified at local level. In particular, measures are needed to reduce the social gaps that create the conditions for this problem. The prevention of crime at national level has unfortunately been neglected in recent years. The government will therefore strengthen crime prevention measures, including by developing coordination between different actors, not least at local level, and developing a national action plan for crime prevention. Illegal weapons are a serious problem, and continued efforts to combat them are a priority for the government. The police and the Customs Agency have intensified their cooperation in recent years, which has resulted in, among other things, a sharp increase in the number of weapons seized. As Jeff Ahl mentions in his question, there are also examples of criminals using weapons other than traditional firearms, such as hand grenades. I believe it is important for society to be able to intervene effectively and effectively against, for example, the illegal use of hand grenades. Among other things, there is a need to review the penal provisions of the Law on Flammable and Explosive Goods. The government has taken several initiatives aimed at responding to organised crime, countering criminal gangs and making the introduction of illegal weapons more difficult. Work will continue, and it will intensify. The government's policy for more jobs, reduced economic gaps and investment in education is also the basis for more people to feel a future belief in all parts of the country.
i-059853a7a84dd612-78	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for Home Affairs for his answer. I agree that law enforcement is, of course, part of the work. Crime prevention work is also always an important part. The big problem is that no government, whether this or previous governments, is doing anything about the basic problem. These exclusion areas are being replenished year after year, and nothing is being done actively to counter the serious organised crime that we see escalate. What we are seeing now borders on war scenes in these alienation areas, and it is escalating more and more rapidly. You shoot rockets into law - abiding citizens' apartments, you throw stones at the police, you start arsons at police stations and even throw hand grenades at the police. This is also happening to community representatives such as ambulance carers and fire brigades. There is also their own administration of criminal networks in these areas. In addition, vehicle checks are carried out and so on – the list can be made very long. By the turn of the millennium, in 2000, no one would have thought we'd be talking about these things now. No one would have believed it, but you would have laughed at it. But now we stand here and talk about it, and the question is how much it will escalate. Hand grenades are a very serious weapon to use. It can't be classified as anything but a military weapon. It was lucky that it was the right type of vehicle that was subjected to the attack, because had it been a regular police vehicle we would probably have had four very seriously injured or, if we had had real bad luck, dead police officers. Yesterday I was able to read in Aftonbladet about what is known as police fishing. You lure cops into ambush, block the vehicle so that you can't get out of there, and then throw well covers at the police vehicle. Who knows, it may soon turn down some hand grenade or other there even if we do nothing about the situation. Information Officer Mats Eriksson of the Western City Police says: The development indicates that it will increase in scope and also that smaller towns will be affected. There are fewer police officers and a lack of backup. This is a worrying development. Yes, Mr President, this is a very worrying development. I would like to say that it is a frightening utve ckel even. Again: In ngenting is done to tackle the basic problem. For example, the number of police officers is reduced relative to the population. I see the Minister of the Interior shaking his head, but that's the way it is. The target of 20 000 police officers has been dropped, and the resources needed to carry out the reorganisation that we see of the police force today are not being made available. It is time for this government and the Minister for the Interior to take responsibility for the irresponsible policy that has been pursued for several decades. We see crime in Mexico and Brazil as a deterrent to what can happen if crime is allowed to escalate too much. There are real wars in some of the cities, such as Rio de Janeiro and the favelors there. Given that the government is not doing anything to strengthen the police who have the main responsibility to solve this and that we now see that we are beginning to use quite serious weapons, the question is whether we should not take the help of other authorities, such as the Swedish Armed Forces. For example, if the situation escalates, you can first borrow shrapnel-protected vehicles. There are also opportunities to use the military in riots, for example, as in other countries. Of course, the police should always lead, but there is an opportunity to make use of it if you want to. The military is trained to deal with riots. For example, Swedish soldiers solved the riots outside Pristina in Kosovo with bravur. If there is a need for new legislation, or if it is possible to use it already available, then we need to investigate and review it, but I wonder whether the government is prepared to review the legislation and try to use existing legislation to help if the situation escalates further.
i-059853a7a84dd612-89	Mr President, I would like to Is this the best Jeff Ahl could think of in the two weeks he's had since the interpellation was written? There has never been more money spent on the police than now – an old man. We haven't had more police officers in Sweden in 35 years, no matter how Jeff Ahl fiddles with numerators and denominators and tries to find his own measurements. During a four-minute speech, the main suggestion was that we should borrow shrapnel-protected vehicles from the military. Is that how we will solve the problems in Sweden? Is this the main proposal for action by Jeff Ahl and the Swedish Democrats? Let me tell you what we've done. We will tighten the penalties for hand grenades and explosives. After all, we doubled the penalties for the other weapons, but unfortunately the previous government failed to get the penalties for hand grenades and explosives. We will strengthen control over explosives precursors, i.e. such substances that can be used to produce bombs. We're gonna make a smuggling crime out of bringing in hand grenades, which it isn't today. Customs is therefore, unfortunately, tied up in its actions. We have tightened the penalties for gun crimes, and we are going to impose penalties for conspiracy, attempted and prepared for serious gun crimes. I will be on the EU Board in 30 minutes and describe how we have operated in the EU and have achieved great success so that the whole weapons directive is reworked. We will introduce a minimum level in the EU so that we do not have to buy weapons in the supermarkets in Slovakia, the Czech Republic or Almqvist's Hungary and then take them back to Sweden, reactivate them and use them on the streets. These are concrete measures. There's never been more money for the police than now. There's more cops than in at least 35 years. So some facts and a little correction from Jeff Ahl wouldn't have hurt.
i-059853a7a84dd612-92	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I can say – and this is common – that the Minister for the Interior is not listening to what I am saying. I said in my introductory speech, which the Minister would have heard if he had listened properly, that I think it is good that the government is taking these legal measures and that certain other measures are being taken. But you are still not doing anything about the basic problem. The Home Secretary should also be aware that it is probably time to start listening to those who are actually working on this and stop living in their little bubble. The independent implementation committee, which was tasked with looking at this issue precisely as regards reorganisation, noted that there is a lack of 1 billion today. In addition, you have dropped the target of 20 000 police officers. In view of the large migration and population growth that we have, this means that the number of police officers per inhabitant is decreasing. So, no, I am not dealing with figures, but I am stating the fact that the government is not doing what is necessary. A state must not lose control of certain areas, as has been done. I hope that the Minister for Noice has read the report that I hold in my hand. But he doesn't seem to have. It is called a national overview of criminal networks with great influence in the local community. If you browse it a little, for example, you can read about, as I mentioned earlier, criminals who carry out their own administration of justice and have their own judicial system in these areas, without state control. So-called 'protection activities' are carried out by traders and are therefore more or less taxing them in order to finance continued criminal activities. Vehicle checks are carried out, it is noted. It is also the exercise of authority. After all, it is usually the police who are allowed to carry out vehicle checks, but they do. In several cases, it is described that shootings have taken place on the open street without being able to prosecute anyone because people are terrified of these criminals. It reads as follows: This means that the ordinary justice system is partially put out to play. I would say that in some cases there has been almost total play. It also states that these areas are considered generally difficult for the police to work in and that they have difficulty in carrying out long-term operations due to resource shortages and other things. Now that you are not giving the money to the police that they need, there will be problems again, and the government is not prepared to take responsibility for this irresponsible policy. It's obvious. With a Swedish democratic policy, we would not have had to have this discussion, because then the police would have the resources needed in terms of both allocated funds and legal rights to combat this type of crime. The Minister for Home Affairs and the Government will probably need to review the possibility for the police to use other authorities to protect their staff in an escalated situation, for example. But the Minister for Home Affairs and the Government do not seem to be concerned that hand grenades are now being thrown at policemen, that policemen are being lured into ambush or that the police cannot move freely. They sometimes have to take other paths into the alienation areas. They cannot take the regular roads because they are then exposed to stoning, well-lock throwing or – as we have now seen – hand grenade throwing. Well, it's the government that has to take responsibility. And it is your problem, Anders Ygeman, if the social contract between the state and the people who live in alienation areas begins to be broken and loosened. That is what we are seeing today. I am concerned when the Minister for the Interior does not listen to what I say and then rages over the problem. I consider that to be very serious.
i-059853a7a84dd612-100	Mr President, I would like to Listen, says Jeff Ahl. Then Jeff Ahl sorry that when he says that nothing is done, as he said two or three times in his previous speech, I find it difficult to understand that it would be seen as praise for the government's actions. But Jeff Ahl will be happy to explain how it would be commended for the actions taken by the government. Of course, I welcome any praise, although it was easily hidden by Jeff Ahl. Yes, the government takes responsibility. No, the Swedish Democrats do not take responsibility. It's not news. And no fake budget, no fake money, and no fake crowns will help the police. Yes, it is true that the target of 20,000 police officers is not in the budget. Yes, we have considerably more than 20 000 police officers in Sweden. Yes, we have 28 000 police employees in Sweden who are involved in police work, and many of them conduct investigations. Yes, it is the police who should choose which professions best do the respective tasks. Yes, engineering engineers should be able to conduct preliminary investigations into computer fraud. And yes, economists should be able to hunt economic criminals. That is why we no longer number how many should be police officers and how many should be other employees. For Jeff Ahl, it may well be worth considering why no other government activity has numerical targets per profession. And if Jeff Ahl now thinks that this kind of digitized goal is a good idea, I look forward to him proposing it to, for example, Försäkringskassan. How many should be insurance officers, how many should be insurance bills and so on? But as far as I know, it's not even in SD's fantasy budget. On the main issue, there is a significant problem in the socially vulnerable areas of Sweden. We have had perhaps ten twelve years of growing divides in Sweden. We have had eight years of growing unemployment and falling school scores. One cannot be surprised if this leads to increased social tension and crime. That is why the government is now pursuing a policy that will break that trend, to put more people to work, to reverse school developments and reduce gaps. That's removing the breeding ground. That is to solve the problems fundamentally, as Jeff Ahl talked about. We shall also complement this policy with workable police work. It's supposed to be problem-based, intelligence-driven, and it's supposed to take out crime. We have made significant progress in parts of Sweden. Look at the development in Södertälje and compare with how it was there five six years ago. Good police intervention will take out crime. Good cooperation with other authorities is cutting off the financial supply of serious organised crime. And with good municipal work and good crime prevention work, we can reverse developments, not with fantasy money and fantasy politics.
i-059853a7a84dd612-108	Mr President, I would like to It is easy for the Minister of the Interior to stand here in the speaker's seat and not take the escalating situation seriously. Of course there are local examples where the police may have succeeded temporarily. But it is written again in the report, if the Minister for the Interior has read it, that it is the long-term nature of the problem because the police do not have the necessary resources. Now that the government is being criticized by those who are actually working on this in the day-to-day business – they say that there is a whole billion missing to carry out the reorganisation that is required – and when you are even sued you must take it seriously, right? The Home Secretary should be ashamed of himself. It's not in the interior minister's apartment that it rains in New Year's rockets. It is law-abiding citizens whom you have abandoned who are subjected to it. Excretion also increased during the previous Social Democratic government. Of course, it is also the fault of the bourgeois government, but it is also your fault. What I have said you are not doing anything about is the basic problem. And the basic problem is when you replenish the alienation areas. The basic problem is when you don't really give the police the tools and resources to solve the situation. Now I am concerned and standing here trying to propose certain measures. I do because, as an individual Member of Parliament, I must at least have done what I can by paying attention to this. It is the hardworking citizens who are affected, and you are doing nothing about it. The closed-and-stake policy that you are pursuing will punish itself in the long run. But the problem, as I said, is that it will not punish you in the government, except that you lose little in public opinion. It is the law-abiding citizens whose cars are being burned up, whose apartments are being destroyed and whose safety is no longer present in the areas affected. You are responsible for maintaining the state's monopoly of violence. But you are retreating and doing nothing to solve the problem. It scares me.
i-059853a7a84dd612-116	Mr President, I would like to Those were harsh words from Jeff Ahl, and totally caught out of the air. Go out to Rinkeby in Stockholm, Jeff Ahl! There we are now building a new police station. 200 police officers will be placed there. Go to Malmö, which had problems this summer! By the end of the year, they'll have over 100 new police officers. Go to Södertälje where we have turned the trend! In each police region, there will now be more police officers and more police officers in external service. It is police officers who will work to reverse the developments mentioned in the report. I dare to promise that if we meet in this Chamber again in a year's time, Jeff Ahl, you will see that there are considerably fewer areas that have the problem raised in the report. We're working on it. We work actively with police officers in the local area. That is the whole point of the reform that has been made. We are actively working on the enforcement of weapons, also for hand grenades and explosive substances. We're working on the smuggling. And we work at European level. Unlike the Swedish Democrats, we have an active policy. And our policy is not based on fake money, fake budgets and fake reduction. Our policies are financed in reality and deliver results in reality.
i-059853a7a84dd612-122	Mr President, I would like to Karin Enström has asked me why the government does not reprioritize the current budget to meet the urgent need. The world is currently experiencing the most serious humanitarian situation since World War II. About 60 million people are on the run. And the UN is currently trying to provide humanitarian aid to 79 million people. Humanitarian crises are taking place in a variety of places. In Syria, 12 million people are in need of humanitarian aid. In Yemen, half the population lack access to food. In Iraq, people are fleeing Isil's violence. In Myanmar, the Rohingya people flee across the sea. Nor must we forget the Ukrainian crisis in our neighbourhood or Somalia, which has been suffering from a prolonged humanitarian crisis for more than 25 years. There are more examples. Humanitarian needs are high and are likely to increase. The interpellant points out that the World Food Programme is underfunded. This applies to the whole humanitarian system. All humanitarian organisations are currently underfunded. At present, the UN-led humanitarian work through so-called appeals is only funded at 41%. Unfortunately, that is not new either. In recent years, the appeals have been funded at just over half. Sweden is already one of the largest donors to the humanitarian system. And we are the biggest donor of core support to the World Food Programme. In view of the serious humanitarian situation, the government is now strengthening humanitarian work on a number of fronts and increasing support. The Government has decided to allocate an additional SEK 50 million for humanitarian purposes within the framework of the aid proposal. Half of these will go to the World Food Programme's efforts in Syria. The other half goes to the United Nations Emergency Response Fund, which is channelling humanitarian aid to crises worldwide. Given the complexity of the Syria crisis, the government has also decided on the direction of a completely new aid strategy for the Syria crisis, including with a view to supporting Syria's neighbouring countries, which have received more than 4 million Syrian refugees. The intention is that about SEK 1.6 billion over five years will be allocated to this strategy. In addition, the Government intends to increase humanitarian aid in 2016 by approximately SEK 485 million. We are also actively working within the UN system to ensure that the money is spent as efficiently as possible. The government is making strong efforts to meet global needs and is pushing for reforms of the humanitarian system, for better coordination and for all countries to take responsibility and contribute to the provision of assistance to those in need. It is essential to remember that there are a large number of crises going on. We must not forget crises that are not in the spotlight, and we must be ready to help reach people in need of humanitarian aid with food, health care and protection wherever they are. Sweden's unearned aid contributes significantly to this.
i-059853a7a84dd612-132	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister for Development, for your answer. In his reply, the Minister for Development very well describes the very bleak situation that we see in our surrounding world. It's a matter of emergency. These are situations that are still acute despite the fact that they have been going on for many years. Not least in Africa, many conflicts and refugee disasters have been permanent, and people live in refugee camps year after year in the absence of other alternatives. I am pleased that last week the government decided to make an extra contribution both to the World Food Programme and to the disaster fund – 25 million plus 25 million. That's good. It is also good that the government says it wants to increase humanitarian aid and also proposes it in the budget proposal for next year. But that makes me wonder, too. Two weeks ago, the Aftonbladet Development Minister said that it would be irresponsible to take money from other aid activities. I hope I have misunderstood that statement. Of course, there is a constant balance in our development policy between the urgent need for aid – which is extremely important right now – and the other type of aid, of which Sweden is good at and has a good tradition. This is about development aid. It is about working to spread democracy, gender equality and human rights – what we agree on around the world – and building a better future in the long term. But in this very urgent situation, as I said, we have more people on the run than ever since World War II. What we see in Syria is a terrible bloody conflict. It initially seemed to be part of the Arab Spring, but this conflict has not only become permanent but appears to be even more serious. About 250 000 people have died. Millions of people are on the run, both inside Syria and in Syria's neighbouring countries. Some of them are trying to get to Europe, but most of them are still in place in Syria or in Syria's neighbouring countries. In the extremely difficult situation they are in now, there is yet another problem, and that is that they do not even get food for the day. Then we must be able to keep several thoughts in mind at the same time by being able to increase humanitarian aid in this extremely urgent situation and at the same time look at long-term. There, the Syria Strategy is part of it, and other aid activities are helping to bring this conflict to an end. Right now, it doesn't look bright. We see that Russia is now actively involved in this war. Russia and the United States are trying to talk to each other, but if we are to be truly honest, the international community has failed to put an end to this terrible conflict, which is the root cause. In the light of this, we believe that we now need to increase aid. That is not enough with 50 million, but I would like the government to really examine the possibility of increasing humanitarian aid further this year, in addition to the 50 million, and also to increase humanitarian aid further in the 2016 budget proposal.
i-059853a7a84dd612-141	Mr President, I would like to Thank you to Karin Enström, who initiated an extremely urgent interpellation debate! How does the Swedish government meet the challenges that this poses when more people than in many decades are now on the run? It is people who are fleeing from appalling terror and violent regimes in their home countries. As we have talked about here, the neighbouring countries of the war-affected countries are taking enormous responsibility in the reception of refugees, and these countries desperately need our support. It is also the relief organisations that are in place. Huge humanitarian efforts are needed to provide security for all those fellows who are now on the run. In his response, the Minister for Development outlined the efforts that Sweden is now making in terms of increasing aid to the UNHCR and to the United Nations Emergency Fund. This is, of course, a good thing, but I wish the government had chosen to do more. The world situation means that a transformation of Swedish aid is a necessity to meet the acute situation that exists – an acute situation that unfortunately seems to be for a while. The Christian Democrats believe that the multilateral support that Sweden provides to a wide range of UN agencies must be focused and brought together to a greater extent among those organisations that have the greatest activity among refugees and that work with children's security and rights. It is organisations such as UNHCR, World Food Programme and UNICEF, the United Nations Organization for the Rights of the Child, that the government now also chooses to reduce support to. The Minister for Development usually emphasizes that Swedish aid should go to things where Sweden does the most good. That is the absolute objective of all of us. But words have to go to action. Keeping paying out money to a variety of multilateral organisations no longer makes sense.
i-059853a7a84dd612-148	I would also like to take this opportunity to ask who they are, the reforms the government wants to see from the humanitarian system that the Minister for Development started by talking about.
i-7CfTJnNfycrs71Z9MS5PuB	Mr President, I would like to Thanks to Karin Enström and Sofia Damm for the questions! Sweden is, as I said, the fifth largest humanitarian donor in the world. As far as the immediate disaster response needed this year is concerned, we are already doing more than most other countries in the world. About ten countries are responsible for financing more than half of the entire humanitarian system. We don't think that's reasonable. We do not think it reasonable for us, as major donors, to finish existing long-term projects to now cover the irresponsibility of other countries in terms of funding the humanitarian system. Which projects does Karin Enström think we should take from? Should we stop aid to individual countries to cover up because the rest of the world is not doing its bit in the current emergency situation, where Sweden is already doing more than most other countries? As I said, we are increasing aid already this year. We have a pot, and we will go in and take further responsibility if we find unsubscribed funds that we can use. But above all, we are now pushing the issue strategically. Sofia Damm asked how we are pushing this issue to reform the humanitarian system. Next year will be a humanitarian summit, the first of its kind ever. There you will have to look at the humanitarian system, where needs grow year-on-year. They've increased in the last five years. It is constantly growing extremely alarming. As Karin Enström pointed out, there are people who have been living in refugee camps for decades. We want to see reforms, especially in four areas. In particular, it concerns respect for humanitarian access. It has dramatically decreased with the emergence of actors such as ISIL, religious extremists and others who do not respect the humanitarian neutrality of aid workers. Humanitarian aid workers are murdered and persecuted. You bomb hospitals and schools. You destroy what we're trying to do. We must do something about this. Then we have to do something about the long-term. Today, 80% of humanitarian funding goes to people who are fleeing because of wars and conflicts. It is not earthquakes and natural disasters, but wars and conflicts that are the main driving force behind the growing humanitarian need. These people will not be able to return within six months or a year. I was in Dadaab, Kenya, a couple of weeks ago. There, 350 000 refugees live in a camp on the border with Somalia. They have been there since 1991. There are refugees in refugee camps in Algeria who fled from the Western Sahara crisis in 1975. There are Palestinians who have been in refugee camps for more than 50 years. This is not sustainable. We must have a strategy to bridge the humanitarian problem to a long-term solution, and we are pushing for that. Then there is the funding. Is it only certain countries that will voluntarily monitor the humanitarian system? We think that we must have greater responsibility from all countries, so that all countries are involved in paying. It's not supposed to be voluntary, it's supposed to be part of the system. Then we also need to get private sector funders and new aid countries in the region, not least in Gulfen, where there are those who have a great interest in this.
i-059853a7a84dd612-157	Mr President, I would like to For a long time, we have had a broad consensus on the objective of aid – to work to eradicate poverty and oppression. That is our responsibility, and we take our responsibility as a major donor. We shall have an ambitious development policy, and we shall have generous aid. It is also important that the aid we provide gives real results. We are working in different ways to make our aid activities clearer. It's about being able to focus and evaluate, so that you do the right things. As I said in my previous speech, the cornerstones of this are the objective of our foreign policy, namely to promote democracy, human rights and sustainable development, as well as to uphold international law and, of course, gender equality. We're supposed to be a country that takes responsibility for people on the run. We should be a country that calls on others to also take on this shared responsibility. Of course, not a single country can do everything itself. But in the serious situation we are in now, we are going to call on more people to take greater responsibility in every possible way, and I hope that the Minister for Development and Foreign Affairs did so in New York this week. There are problems in the context of promising support for various disasters and crises but then not fulfilling their promises. Is this something that the Minister for Development has raised with his colleagues during the week in New York? Since the situation is so acute, it is obviously important to work with emergency aid. This places high demands. A little bureaucratically, it is called multilateral nuclear support, and it probably sounds quite incomprehensible to most people. But the multilateral organisations, the organisations that are under the UN – it's about the World Food Programme me, UNHCR, the Disaster Fund and a number of other UN organisations – we from the Swedish side are trying to provide as clearly as possible. It is not always easy to follow up the results. Of course, you should be very active there, so that you know what to do if you prioritise. Now, however, the situation is so urgent that we would like even more money to be given this year. We would have done that if we were in the government. We believe that we need to further increase nuclear support for multilateral organisations. On the part of the Moderates, we see that there is scope for bilateral support. There we could re-prioritise, and that is what this interpellation is about. Priority could be given to certain elements of bilateral support in order to increase the allocation for core support. The Alliance government proposed a number of countries where we wanted to phase out our development aid and development cooperation. However, you choose in your draft budget to retain those countries. There's money to use. That is an answer to the question put by the Minister for Development. My interpellation is about the emergency situation right now. We will come back to budgetary issues and priorities later in our budget debates. In any case, the direct question is: is there not more money to be found right now this year in the funds that should remain in Category 7 to further support the people who are in an emergency situation where food is simply out of hand?
i-059853a7a84dd612-167	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister for Development, for your answer. I would like to stress once again the importance of reviewing the funds that Sweden is giving to a wide range of UN agencies and other organisations. It is not a case of abrupt closure of projects initiated. It's about taking a little longer-term responsibility. We are talking about the emergency situation, but I would still like to raise my eyes a little further ahead and prioritise in order to be able to take on this responsibility. I would like to take this opportunity to highlight another aspect of the refugee situation. After all, many people want to help in the difficult situation that the world is now in. The involvement of individuals and civil society complements what public Sweden and other countries must do and therefore needs to be encouraged and strengthened. Therefore, of all the government's tax increases in the budget, the tax increase on donations to relief organisations appears to be very strange. Instead, at a time when we really need all the commitment, the government is making the individual giving to people in need difficult by removing the relatively small possibility of tax reduction for gifts imposed by the Alliance Government. Yes, it is a small opportunity, as is often emphasised in the debate, but a great many donors have increased the grant amount through this opportunity. It is a direct consequence of the encouragement offered by the reform. Many organisations have also been able to do much more. Instead, to do what the government now chooses to do and significantly increase the funding for information efforts in Sweden from the aid budget – this on the grounds that the UN's new millennium targets are to be communicated and debated – is a strange priority. In the current situation, the Swedish people do not seem to be calling for a very expensive development policy debate. It calls for strong action and wants concrete results, and it is also prepared to help with this. That is why I simply wonder: why is the government making this priority?
i-059853a7a84dd612-171	Mr President, I would like to Nevertheless, I think it is a bit strange to talk about phasing out Karin, long-term development cooperation in an acute phase. One of the countries in which the previous government wanted to end its involvement was Burkina Faso. It is a country where Sweden is currently supporting electoral systems. It is about setting up a secure election after a number of coup attempts in the country. We have ensured that women have received identification and identity cards so that they can go and vote at all. We will see an increase in women's voting turnout thanks specifically to Swedish long-term development aid. If Burkina Faso breaks down, what happens to refugees? What happens to the people who end up under a military or other regime? This may cause the whole country to collapse in a civil war. We have a very important role to play in the long term. We cannot, because the rest of the world does not assume its responsibility for the humanitarian disaster in the area of emergency food aid, phase out such long-term aid that actually provides the conditions for democratic development in people's countries. It is also about economic development and the participation of women. These are exactly the priorities that the government does. Karin Enström raises the issue of nuclear support. It is very important to emphasise that. Sweden provides unearthly support to most of these organisations. It is a very large one, which means that the organisations have flexibility. They can go where there are no newspaper headlines. It is about the forgotten crises and about people who have been in refugee camps for decades. It can also be a natural disaster. Before other governments have time to make decisions, our organisations are in place thanks to Swedish money and that we go in with core support. Answer: Yes, I have raised this in New York during the summit. More people have to take responsibility with unearthly support. I think it is really rather sad that the world is now beginning to talk about massive humanitarian efforts in the immediate vicinity of Syria because this has become very visible and tangible at home in Europe right now. This should have been reacted to a long time ago, just as Karin Enström says. It is a political problem at the bottom. We must support the countries in the immediate region, and so does Sweden. Since I took office, we have given SEK 100 million for the first time to Jordan and Lebanon. It is about reinforcements in school systems, water and infrastructure in countries that previously did not receive Swedish aid. We are now reviewing our entire strategy for this. Next year we will adopt a new Syrian crisis strategy of a total of 1.6 billion. We are working to strengthen the entire Middle East in the long term with our long-term aid commitment. When it comes to reviewing our gifts to various UN agencies, it would be interesting to hear from Sofia Damm which bodies she thinks are unnecessary. We need global cooperation more than ever. We also have a hope for a better future through the new global sustainability goals, which were adopted last Friday. Then we are talking about what Sofia calls information grants. This is not a debate. It's about involving civil society. There are 36 million SEK for schools, museums, municipalities and others who want to work with twin projects in developing countries to see how Sweden can best help other countries get out of poverty so that we can combat war and conflict in the long term.
i-059853a7a84dd612-179	Mr President, I would like to Of course, we welcome the fact that we are having a dialogue on the extremely urgent Syria crisis strategy, not least in view of the enormous effort that has been made by neighbouring countries, which have seen their populations increase enormously, and all the efforts that are being made on these systems and on these communities. It is now not just about helping individuals, but about ensuring that these communities stick together and cope with the pressure. It's very important, and I'm sure we can get a consensus there. However, I would like to come back to the fact that this is not about newspaper headlines or spotlights, but it is based on calls for help from individuals and not least from those organisations that are now struggling to help and support and keep people alive who are fleeing Syria or in Syria's neighbouring countries. The UN's assessment is that there is a lack of $2 billion. Then the situation is very urgent. I would like to come back to my question, to which I did not really get an answer. I would like to see the Minister for Development try again and see what is left of the unused funds that are usually too acute humanitarian needs to further support, not least the World Food Programme and the kind of organisations that are making urgent efforts for people who are currently at risk of starvation or are already starving.
i-059853a7a84dd612-182	Mr President, I would like to Last year the world suddenly faced an unprecedented Ebola disaster. A few months ago, Hurricane Pam and the earthquake occurred in Nepal. All three examples illustrate that we cannot predict what is happening. We are now in October. We have three months left of this year. Does Karin Enström mean that we should use all the existing means for a crisis because refugees come here to Europe? We have done more than most other countries in terms of our humanitarian responsibility. We accept refugees in our own country. In addition, we are actively engaged in reforming the humanitarian system so that we can use every dollar and every dollar spent in the humanitarian system more effectively. If there is a natural disaster or something that we cannot predict today, we shall have money so that we can also go in there. Then there will be other cries about it. We are putting pressure on our countries within the EU and all the developed countries within the OECD to stand up and do their duty in terms of financing the humanitarian system. Global security is today a global common good. We cannot put a wall on the countries of the Middle East, which are our neighbours. So this is something for which we must all now take joint responsibility. It can't just be Sweden, and we can't phase out our long-term commitment to giving food packages when other countries should stand up and fix it. There are also other players – business, philanthropists and others – who can go in and help and support in this situation. We have an active dialogue and an active debate on these issues. I think we can be proud of the contribution made by the Swedish people.
