i-e51117834085aba8-0	Mr President, speakers, interpellers and Members of Parliament! Mikael Oscarsson has asked me whether I intend to provide the necessary support for Sweden to be able to participate in the research on the SIT method and whether I intend to reconsider the decision on the state reduction in aid for combating it. Mikael Oscarsson believes that BTI is not a long-term solution. I note that, despite the use of BTI, problems with local concentrations of flood mosquitoes recur. This is one reason why it is urgent to continue working on other methods including preventive measures. In 2013, the County Administrative Board of Gävleborg has examined the need for combination measures and a plan for implementation. Part of this is to adapt water regulation to reduce summer floods. Another part is about enabling grazing and mowing. The County Administrative Board states that the resumption of culprits in sub-areas has led residents to feel that mosquito problems have decreased. I have also received information about promising results of similar efforts in the municipality of Forshaga. I welcome research and development that can lead to long-term sustainable methods of mosquito control, including research into the SIT method. As regards funding for environmental research, for example, it can generally be said that these can be applied for through the research funders. They are the ones who are responsible for assessing which research should be included in research funding. During the summer, the Government decided to provide extra money for fighting, following an application from the County Administrative Board of Gävleborg County. This was due to the acute situation of the summer with exceptionally favourable conditions for the development of flood mosquitoes. The government does not intend to reduce the support for 2016 compared to the initial assessment for the current year in terms of financial resources for the fight against fraud. I note that, in addition, support can be sought from the rural development programme as of 2016. The County Administrative Board has the possibility to prioritise funds to limit high concentrations of flood mosquitoes. This year's Government Decision on mosquito control in the Natura 2000 areas concerned has been subject to new conditions to account for all alternative control measures implemented in 2015, but also to present a plan for reducing the use of pesticides in favour of other methods. I look forward to that report as well as the presentation of new evidence relating to the fight against flood mosquitoes.
i-e51117834085aba8-6	Mr President, I would like to It has become very clear to everyone that there is a need to combat flood mosquitoes. The now functioning method is Vectobac from helicopter. It has been used for nearly 15 years, and it has been 40 years since it began to be used in Germany. It is now used around the world. When it has been used in different areas of Sweden, people have been very satisfied, unlike people in those areas in Sweden who haven't got the fight with Vectobac. However, it is always risky to have only one tool. Now we have – if we use that image – a hammer in the form of Vectobac, but it would also be good to have a screwdriver. Fortunately, there is a well-documented method. It is environmentally friendly, long-term sustainable and well functioning against insects. It is about releasing sterilised male mosquitoes and thus preventing reproduction of the species in the area. The method has been well established since the 1950s against a parasitic fly, which has been eradicated throughout North and Central America using the SIT method. SIT is used regularly and extensively against fruit flies in fruit farms in Europe, South America and Asia, and this has made it possible to reduce the use of pesticides. According to experts from the IAEA in Vienna and other international experts who have been asked very well, the conditions for developing the method of combating Aedes sticticus, i.e. the flood mosquito we are talking about, are very good. So there is no need for research, Mr President, but what is needed is for the state to add money to build a factory. You don't need research to build a factory. What I want answers to with this interpellation is whether the government is willing to continue to support Vectobac. The story is that it was the former Minister for the Environment Kjell Larsson who started the project in 2001, and every year they invested 4 million from the state. Another 1 million was added for research at Uppsala University, but it was then reduced to 4 million. Now the government has reduced this by 25% to 3 million, and just as I wrote in my interpellation, we see this year that money can be added. That's not enough. What we can see is that the problems will increase. We have seen this growing in different places, and then it is not possible to just look in another direction and think that it is only a small group. This is an important measure, and it is absolutely necessary for you to be able to live at the lower Dalälven. Most of the years are big problems, so it is not possible – as the Minister did in some TV element – to say that you have to hope for nature before the money comes. It kind of doesn't work. There are methods. There is a hammer in the form of Vectobac, but it also needs a chisel. My question, which is asked by the entire population of the area, is: What will the government do in these areas?
i-e51117834085aba8-13	Mr President, I would like to In his reply, the Minister for the Environment mentioned the work done in Forshaga Municipality to combat mosquitoes. Since Forshaga is located in my county of Värmland, I think it would be appropriate to tell you a little about that work. I've been following the city's work for many years. Two years ago the municipality employed a municipal ecologist whose main task is to reduce the growth and number of mosquitoes in various ways. A few weeks ago, I was invited to join her in the field, along with other members of Parliament and representatives of other municipalities along the river Klarälven. In Värmland, it is in fact along Klarälven's flood areas, the Värmland stick mosquito has its nursery and habitat. We visited the Pannkakan area, which is a Natura 2000 area with a very rich bird life. There, among other things, nests the white-backed woodpecker. We also visited other meadows and areas where mosquitoes thrive and cause great problems for those living there. In Forshaga, however, they work with the full range of measures. During the summer, a total of 29 gas traps have been deployed as the municipal ecologist manages, empties and moves around. This summer, 8,15 million mosquitoes have met their fate in those traps, but it should be compared to last summer when there were three times as many mosquitoes that ended up in them. This year there have been unusually little mosquitoes in Forshaga municipality – so little that the municipality did not reach the limit required to use BTI. Mr President, I would like to I hope and believe that it is preventive work that has led to the reduction in the number of mosquitoes. Among other things, beach meadows have been cleared and grazing animals have been released into the affected areas. It is cows that not only make it difficult for mosquito larvae themselves to become mosquitoes but also make it easier for pike and perch to feast on eggs and larvae. The municipality is now compiling a result in order to draw conclusions from the impact of the various measures. Forshaga's way of working feels like a sustainable way of working. A palette of different measures is used. To let the helicopter take off with the pesticides purchased by the municipality, and to have permission to spread if the mosquitoes are enough, one sees as the last action. And I am pleased that the municipality has never had to resort to this measure, because in the lower Dalälven it has been sprayed for 13 years without the mosquito count having decreased, and that by means that we do not know what lasting effects it has on plant and animal life or humans. The Government has now commissioned the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency to investigate the impact of BTI on the ecosystem. The results of the investigation will be presented later this autumn, including at a conference in Forshaga. Mr President, I would like to In Forshaga, it has been noted that the government has pointed out that the method of combating sting mosquitoes by spreading BTI is not a long-term sustainable solution and that the use of the product has been reduced. You work with a wide range of measures, but you have to do it with your own money. I would like to ask the Minister how the government thinks about aid to municipalities that work in this way. If I have understood correctly, state aid can be granted today for the use of pesticides but not for the use of cows, the clearing of meadows or the purchase of traps.
i-e51117834085aba8-20	Mr President, I would like to There is no doubt that flood mosquitoes are a major problem in the places in Sweden where outbreaks occur because of how our nature is arranged and how the weather and wind play. For a number of years in Sweden we have worked with several different methods and at several different places to curb flood mosquitoes but also to try to understand more about the background and how to prevent outbreaks that become unbearable for locals, visiting people and animals. I'm glad Mikael Oscarsson and I agree on a couple of things. One is that more measures are good and one should not think that there is only one solution. It is clear that there is a method that is effective in certain situations, the one called BTI. But with it there is a follow-up problem, and that is that a long-term reduction in flood mosquito invasion is not assured. Yes, we need more methods. This is precisely why the County Administrative Board and Forshaga Municipality have activated their work to think about more methods and more measures. This is something that the government supports, and in the decision to allow the use of BTI, we say that we should actively seek a broadening of the analysis to see how different tools can interact better, so that we get a more effective fight against flood mosquitoes. Yes to more measures, but the evidence that we have for more action from the stakeholders who are most closely concerned, and who are also planning for these activities, has looked more at prevention measures. As Mrs Bergström mentioned, it has then been a matter of looking at not only the flood situation as such, water regulation, but also how to keep the landscapes open in a way that makes it more verifiable, that you can remove sly areas through, for example, more grazing. This is something that the government supports, and we refer to how county boards or municipalities can get funding for this. This type of measure is not only a measure to create a more manageable situation, perhaps preventing some flood mosquito invasions, but also a measure that supports biodiversity in the broader sense. Some of the areas at the lower Dalälven are areas that have an extremely high natural value and are protected in different ways. Therefore, it is good to find methods that increase the value and attractiveness of the areas in several ways. For this there are funds available, not least in the rural development programme, but also with the large increases that are now taking place in the management of nature conservation land. The government intends to have a clear programme to increase the attractiveness and value of the fine nature that more and more people should be able to discover. But you also have to work with the attractiveness in terms of reducing the risk of flood mosquitoes. Finally, something about the method SIT, which I understand Mikael Oscarsson attaches an incredible amount of hope to as the new big solution. As I said in the interpellation response initially, it is definitely something that is interesting and should be looked at. It is a method on which more research is needed. That is why we refer to the large research grants available to do so in a safe and good way. I can see that today we do not know whether the method even works on flood mosquitoes – it is tested on flies around the world. Therefore, I think it is a little early to say that it is the new big solution.
i-e51117834085aba8-28	Mr President, I would like to The SIT method is a well-documented and well-proven method used against different insects. I mentioned the parasitic fly, but it is also used against the small fruit flies. It is therefore a tried and tested method. It now needs to be adapted to Aedes sticticus, the mosquito type that exists in huge amounts especially at the lower Dalälven. It is therefore not research that is needed – you know that the method works – but it is an adaptation that is needed and money to start a factory. There are already estimates made, and it is about that it would take 10 million a year over five years to put this into practice. That is, of course, a lot of money. At the same time, we know that it has now been budgeted for fences for baits around the lower Dalälven river, and then we are talking about 1,700 – 1,800 hectares. Then remember that it is less than a fifth of the area where you need to fight mosquitoes at 8,000 hectares. It is difficult at this point to measure the importance of cows. I'm very much for cows. I think you should have as many cows as you can and support milk production in general. But I think you should be careful to put too much faith in these. It has turned out that there are no reference areas at present. This may be due to the cows, but it may also be due to natural fluctuations. What we know is, to reconnect to m itt's last post, that BTI, Vect obac, works. It works in Sweden. If you didn't use it, you would basically have to put down all the attractions in Florida and lose tourists on the French Riviera and in Germany. It does not work unless you use Vect obac. That's what I'm sure we know. There is very strong support in the area for its continued use. On the other hand, there is great concern that the government in general and the Minister for the Environment in particular are concerned about phasing out Vect obac – the only working method that we now have. In fact, a budget of just over 12 million a year would be needed. The former Minister for the Environment and Social Democrats Kjell Larsson stated that the state would bear half of the costs and the municipalities concerned would bear half of the costs. And as I said earlier, in the first few years 4 million were invested in this and 1 million in research. Then it was reduced to a total of 4 million from the state, and now it is reduced to 3 million. It will be an unsustainable situation leading to panic attacks, as this summer. It is not good to deal with such an important issue in a panic. We know, as Mrs SMHI has pointed out, that there will be more floods and more climate change. Then we must ensure that we strengthen and not weaken the method that works.
i-e51117834085aba8-35	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply. It sounds hopeful that there may be money in, among other things, the rural programme and in the increased funding for the management of protected areas for such operations that they work with in Forshaga. The municipality also conducts a dialogue with the power company Fortum. An effective way to reduce mosquito problems is to let water out of the power ponds, in this case Höljesdammen, early in the spring when the water is so cold that mosquito larvae cannot hatch in the flooded areas. One can put it this way that if we let nature decide when most of the water will come to the flood areas, that is, early in the spring, it will put mosquitoes at a disadvantage. But the fact that the power companies want a different order is, of course, about the price of electricity. They want to release the water when they get the most paid for the electricity. I understand that this can be difficult to govern politically. Nevertheless, I would like to ask the Minister whether the government is in any way working on this issue and whether the Minister knows whether somewhere else in the country is about to find a good model for combining the interests of power companies with those of mosquito victims.
i-e51117834085aba8-40	Mr President, I would like to I am not sure that this is the last interpellation debate on mosquito control in Sweden that we have. There have already been a number, and I will try not to repeat too much so that there is little news value as well. I appreciate the debate and I also notice that many Members of Parliament are active in society in trying to find new and modern answers to the problems we have. It is not least a problem for those people who want and choose to spend a lot of time in nature, so it is important for us to be able to stick together and get an acceptance for a conservation policy that makes you like to be out in nature. I would like us to be able, in future debates, to raise the level of government and opportunities for regions and municipalities in Sweden's parliament to make full use of the spectrum of measures they see fit. They should also be able to work with the double values of increasing biodiversity and attractiveness in areas while preventing and reducing the presence of flood mosquitoes. Then it is important to see that more earmarked small budget lines in the state budget for specific pesticide measures may not always be the technology with which the state should govern how this work is done in the best way. I think it is important that we from the state are active in asking for a broader thinking in order to map methods together. This does not mean that we should exclude existing measures. I think it is a misunderstanding with the Member of Parliament Mikael Oscarsson when he says that he suspects that the government does not want BTI use. We never said that or intended it. Rather, we have actively budgeted for a continuation and given permission, because it is on the government's table to authorise this type of control in nature conservation areas. It shall take into account the nature of the area and the importance of the method. Every time these decisions have been taken, the government has stood up for the need for this. There is nothing like this in politics but a concern that these areas should be managed in the best possible way so that as many people as possible can be fully present in the areas. Of course, it is a question of ensuring a decent living situation for the local population and the animals who live there. However, as a minister in this area, I have to be a little vigilant when proposals for new miracle solutions are emerging that are said to work perfectly. This is not the first time I have debated in Parliament the method known as SIT. It sounds amazing when you hear how it works on fruit flies, but I have to be a bit boring and say that it is not safe before it is more researched on and tested that it works properly as you want on flood mosquitoes. We have to let scientists work on this. We cannot just take it as a new grandiose solution to a difficult problem. Then let's make things a little too simple and sit above the possibilities and frameworks we have. The government clearly welcomes the fact that more measures are being looked at, including the SIT method. We simply believe that in the future more methods will be needed, and they need to be in a context. We want to enable local actors to see this in a context, and then perhaps we should not divide the support between when using which method and when doing what preparation work.
i-e51117834085aba8-49	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the debate. What is important for the Minister for the Environment to take with him is that this is a tried and tested method. It is not just someone who thinks a thought, but the method is tried and used around the world. However, an adaptation is needed for the flood mosquito. Now 25 million are being spent on fences, and then it costs millions each year in compensation. We have a hammer with Vectobac, which needs to be secured. But we also need to invest in a screwdriver, and this could really help in the fight. We can see that, unfortunately, these problems will not decrease without increasing. As I said at the outset, it is clearly a matter for everyone and everyone that combating flood mosquitoes is absolutely necessary. There is a legitimate concern among the population when you see that the government is reducing the funding by 25 percent and has the intention of phasing out. Then it's good to hear from the minister. However, it is important to abandon the idea of reducing appropriations. The need is around 12 million, so the government should go from 3 million to 6 million to cover the need – if you are to follow what the former Environment Minister laid down. That is the right way to go, instead of cutting back on the appropriations and having to do the kind of fire-fighting and panic attacks that had to be done this summer. There will be more occasions when there will have to be extensive control – perhaps next year. The money's needed.
i-e51117834085aba8-54	Mr President, I would like to I thank the interpellier for the debate. The government has already contributed 8 million to this area this year. It would not have been cheaper if we had contributed EUR 8 million already in the spring, because we must provide it if necessary. That's how a government that handles a reality should work. We can't always take heights for everything, and in the spring and summer there was more rain than expected. Then it is good to be able to go in with specific measures when necessary. In the long term, we need to find a good funding where county boards and municipalities feel that they have a good backing to work with the entire palette of measures needed to fight the flood mosquitoes and stick mosquitoes. Then we must strengthen them and be involved in both financing and demand for new methods. If researchers in Sweden and county boards and municipalities want to work actively with more methods, the government is completely open to testing them. We are with municipalities and county boards in the work against mosquitoes, and I am pleased that many members of parliament are too.
i-e51117834085aba8-57	Mr President, I would like to Ladies and gentlemen! Kerstin Lundgren has asked me about my priorities and my strategy for protecting the marine environment in the Arctic, whether I share the view of the Center Party on the need for a binding international agreement on safe shipping routes and whether I intend to develop an Arctic Action Plan. Sweden's work with the Arctic remains governed by the Swedish strategy developed in 2011 for the Arctic region. I share the questioner's concern about how increased human presence and activity can affect this sensitive region. Any future development in the Arctic should take place in a sustainable manner. Sweden, with its rich research tradition and deep knowledge of the Arctic, should help protect the region's unique values from short-term exploitation and negative human influence. The Government pursues an active Arctic policy, in particular on the protection of the sensitive environment and the unique biodiversity. Within the framework of the Arctic Council, Sweden is pursuing a determined and long-term line where climate and environmental issues are clearly at the centre. At the ministerial meeting in Iqaluit in April this year, an agreement was reached to reduce soot and methane levels as well as an agreement for cooperation on oil pollution prevention. During the Glacier Conference held in Alaska at the end of August, which coincided with President Obamas's Alaska visit, the United States showed an increase in the ambition of the Arctic and the climate issue. The Government is also currently reviewing work on the environment and climate in the Arctic. The Arctic is an area that must be protected, and we are deepening research cooperation with other countries. This is reflected, among other things, in the bilateral agreement recently signed between Sweden and the United States concerning the research icebreaker Oden. The Arctic Council Working Group on Maritime Affairs, Pame, has developed a strategic plan for the period 2015-2025 to, among other things, protect the marine environment from negative impacts from shipping traffic and work on a framework for the protection of marine areas. Sweden, together with Finland among others, has worked to ensure that both the strategic plan and the framework will also be applied in areas outside national jurisdiction. As part of its Presidency of the Arctic Council, the United States has initiated a feasibility study on the possibility of enhanced regional cooperation for the Arctic seas. Sweden will actively participate in the feasibility study to ensure a focus on protection and sustainable use. Within the framework of the Arctic Council Working Group on Biological Diversity, a comprehensive report, Arctic Biodiversity Assessment, has been produced under Swedish leadership. The implementation of the 17 recommendations resulting from the report is ongoing, including a project on the mapping of marine biodiversity. As regards the need for a binding international agreement for shipping in the Arctic, the International Maritime Organisation (IMO) has recently adopted the so-called Polar Code. Sweden has actively participated in these negotiations, which have led to new safety rules and environmental requirements specific to ships operating in polar areas, including the Arctic. The Polar Code will enter into force on January 1, 2017. The right to international shipping is regulated, among other things, by the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea, Unclo, which codifies customary law principles. Coastal States have an opportunity and responsibility to propose maritime traffic-regulated route systems aimed at reducing accident risks. The IMO is the international body which may establish and adopt rules on international shipping routes. Sweden is actively involved in the work of the IMO on international maritime traffic measures. In addition, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has established an Arctic Forum for Arctic Dialogue. This forum brings together the relevant departments, county boards and county councils from Norr- och Västerbotten, the Swedish Polar Research Secretariat and the Sametinget. The Arctic Forum is led by the Swedish Arctic Ambassador, and the Group intends to discuss, among other things, whether in the long term it may be justified to develop a revised Arctic Strategy. The Arctic Forum held its first meeting in May.
i-e51117834085aba8-67	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Foreign Minister for his reply to my interpellation, which has been given a few months' notice for various reasons to which both I and the Foreign Minister have contributed. The reason I woke up the interpellation on 27 May was a picture that the government was not quite clear about what you want with its Arctic policy. It was not included in the February Declaration of Foreign Affairs this year. Nor was there a marker of what the Minister of Foreign Affairs intended to do at the meeting in Alaska in March, in which the Minister was to participate, but which was not then given priority. So there was uncertainty as to what the government actually intended with its Arctic policy. The Arctic and how we manage to protect and protect the Arctic's sensitive environment is important for us and for the rest of the world. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs said, it is clear that climate change is most visible and visible in the Arctic. It opens up new challenges but also opportunities. It is important that we take a major interest in this sensitive marine environment. The Arctic Council has a central role to play in developing proposals. It is about exploitation and how to ensure that it does not happen in marine sensitive environments, it is about tourism, it is about fishing and it is about infrastructure and which shipping routes are drawn through the Arctic. These are not regulated by the IMO, which rather regulates the construction of ships and how to minimise risks in this environment, but the shipping routes and routes to choose also, of course, affect the sensitive environment in the Arctic. When we talk about the Arctic, of course, we also have the issue of security policy perspectives, but that was not the main part of my question. It was good that an agreement on short-lived climate-related gases was reached in April. We have worked hard on this in previous years, not least on behalf of the Center Party. But the question was what priorities the Minister for Foreign Affairs and therefore the Government has. I have not been able, Mr President, to see an announced letter to Parliament. I know that the opposition at the time was clearly critical of the fact that there was no letter to Parliament. There was talk of annual letters. Now the bill list has arrived, and there is no letter. The Arctic was only mentioned in the Declaration of Government. It contained quite a lot, but there was no clarity in that part. Against this background, Mr President, the question remains: what does the government want with its Arctic policy? It is good to stick to our strategy, but new realities have emerged. What does the government want? Is it intended to present one's own policy in this area, or should one simply refer to the United States' increased ambitions?
i-8oEenoBsdhBxaySR95Z5qQ	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for that, Kerstin Lundgren! I would like to say a few words about Sweden's work in the Arctic Council, which is still based on the existing strategy. However, as I said, we have also set up a forum to review whether a revision of the strategy is necessary. We can add necessary questions, but our priorities are primarily about climate and the environment. It was an interesting meeting that took place, and I participated there together with Johan Rockström, who we had invited with. He made a beautiful appearance with the scientific basis that we have to exercise caution. We want to promote the sustainable development of the Arctic region, including the protection and sustainable management of the sea. We think that we need to reduce global emissions of persistent climate gases, which are of course the most important measure to limit climate change and protect the Arctic. Then there is economic development. We need to promote economic, social and environmental development in the Arctic, and we need to strengthen Swedish business where this is possible as well as the human dimension, that is, improve the living conditions of the people living in the Arctic area. Unfortunately, I thought I heard that the Alaskan senators thought oil and gas extraction was a very good solution until hopefully something else and more environmentally friendly is found. We want to work to ensure that the Arctic remains a low-voltage area for security policy, and we want to strengthen Swedish Arctic research. Those are the tracks we're working from right now. I have nothing against – as soon as we get something from the forum – presenting a letter setting out our priorities and our view on how to revise the strategy. But I think we should do that after we have made use of this forum, which will have to go through properly and see what new issues should be added. I also welcome comments from the Center Party and Kerstin Lundgren.
i-e51117834085aba8-82	Mr President, I would like to One such point is, of course, that the government must be more clear about what it wants. It is good when the Minister for Foreign Affairs refers to the existence of a polar code to enter into force on 1 January 2017. You could've wished we'd gotten there sooner, but that's not how the world looks. There are, however, reasons for moving forward there too. The issue of heavy oil in ships in an Arctic environment is one such thing, when you talk about protecting and reducing emissions of persistent, climate-affected gases. But there is also the question of shipping routes and routes. It is not just a question of the government – which is a good thing – wanting to broaden the scope of the Strategic Plan of the Arctic Council Working Group on Maritime Affairs, so that it applies more broadly. This could clearly ensure that it is not traffic in the most sensitive environments, because marine and biodiversity in the most sensitive environments in the Arctic are severely affected by a significant increase in ship traffic in these areas. That is why, as we see it, it is important to try to continue to work towards a binding agreement. It is unusual in these contexts, and it is discussed to what extent they really are holding. Nevertheless, achieving a binding agreement on safe shipping routes would be one way of protecting the most sensitive marine environments in the Arctic. Neither the agreement on the polar code nor the extended use of the working group's strategy solves this problem.
i-e51117834085aba8-86	Mr President, I would like to Kerstin Lundgren is of course quite right and has many important points. What has happened is that climate change has followed extensive ice melting, opening up new fairways and fairways in the area. New transport routes and the strategic situation of the whole region mean that there will be a new safety policy assessment. It is important, in order to review a new strategy or add to the strategy that we are already applying. There will also be great risks to the environment if we do not watch out. It is not that maritime traffic is completely unregulated. It is in fact the Convention on the Law of the Sea, Unclo, which regulates traffic. It applies to all states. There is, for example, the principle of harmless passage. There are a number of legal instruments to use. But it is incredibly important – especially based on security policy assessments – to think about where to lay the bar and how to work on these issues in the future. The Polar Code, which will enter into force in 2017, will regulate in particular safety and environmental regulations: construction, equipment, operation, training, sea rescue, environmental protection and all the points contained in the Polar Code. It is clear that it is important to allow it to enter into force and to see how it is to be applied. But for me, the security policy argument is very important, and I think we should discuss it with the help of our forum on the Arctic. What we've been working with most – that's probably what Kerstin Lundgren knows well – is the agreement on soot and methane emissions, the cooperation on oil pollution prevention, to which we have also given priority, and an interdisciplinary project called Arctic Resilience Report. These are factors that affect the ability of humans and nature to cope with changes in ecosystems. There will be a final report at the next ministerial meeting in 2017. The work is going on according to the priorities and broad lines that I have indicated. However, I think that what has come about recently is largely about safety policy assessment, and this also includes shipping. I hope that we can continue the dialogue and ensure that we can achieve a Swedish contribution that hopefully has a strong political foundation here in Parliament.
i-e51117834085aba8-92	Mr President, I would like to The security policy perspective on the Arctic is, of course, quite obvious at the moment, with the new security policy reality that we are in. But it is important here that the entire Arctic Council is able to get together in a common position. What I am trying to stress in my interpellation is the importance of Swedish efforts to protect the most sensitive marine environments not from a security policy perspective but an environmental perspective. In the same way that we have worked to reduce fishing in sensitive environments and reduce the impact on the most vulnerable marine environments, we must ensure that, when the Arctic is opened up, we do not end up in a situation where, based on exploitation interests, tourism or infrastructure or other reasons, we enter and have a substantial increase in authorised vessels but still ships in environments that are hard hit and at risk for future generations if we do not protect them. That is why a global binding agreement is needed – it is about the interests of the whole world – about safe shipping routes in the Arctic. We believe that this is an important priority and should be on the government's list, alongside the other issues we have discussed.
i-e51117834085aba8-95	Mr President, I would like to I do not think that anyone in the Arctic Council has gone by the fact that Sweden is driving environmental issues and, of course, wants to protect the most sensitive areas. It was also the main focus of our interventions during the last meeting in Alaska. We have certainly put forward these arguments with vigour. We have also worked very practical on a number of tracks. In my view, we must change the Unclo, the Convention on the Law of the Sea, and look at whether it is the most important way forward. I think it is necessary to keep it open, based on what is happening throughout the Arctic region, and to pursue these issues and ensure that we are realistic, so that we can bring the other countries with us and so that it meets the challenges that we are facing in the whole area of security policy, but above all environmentally. I think we should continue that dialogue. Let's get back to these questions. We will drive them and engage in them, and we also have an Arctic ambassador who we will use to the full, and we will use this forum to discuss precisely these issues. What is a way forward? What questions should we pursue and in what way, in order to achieve the best possible protection for the Arctic region?
i-e51117834085aba8-98	Mr President, I would like to Jeff Ahl has asked me how I intend to correct the diplomatic affront to Finland in connection with the new Finnish Foreign Minister's visit to Stockholm. I honestly do not understand what the interpellier is referring to. I had a very good meeting with Finland's new Foreign Minister, Timo Soini, on 2 June. The meeting strengthened the close relationship and special relationship between Sweden and Finland. The importance of continued close cooperation was underlined from both sides. When Prime Minister Stefan Löfven received Finland's new Prime Minister Juha Sipilä on 8 June, the Prime Minister reaffirmed the Government's desire for continued close cooperation with the Finnish Government. Since our first meeting on 2 June, I have met and held talks with my Finnish colleague at a number of meetings and conferences, including in Brussels, Luxembourg, Copenhagen and Alaska. Sweden's relationship with Finland is also unique. Our countries have a long history in common. Cooperation and integration between Sweden and Finland are very close in all areas of society. Political contacts and cooperation between our authorities are extensive. Cultural exchanges are rich and multifaceted. The tourist flows in both directions are significant. Perhaps the most striking is the breadth and depth of integration between our businesses. Our countries are each other's most important export markets. Finland and Sweden share many similar challenges and have largely converging interests. We also deepen our already excellent bilateral cooperation in a number of areas, such as the priority of enhanced Finnish-Swedish defence cooperation. The links between our countries are and will remain very close and strong.
i-e51117834085aba8-102	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by saying that I agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs on the importance of maintaining good cooperation with Finland. It is for this very reason that I have awakened this interpellation. I know that the government is conducting talks to strengthen the bilateral agreement between Sweden and Finland, and I hope that it will continue to do so. I agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that we have a lot in common with Finland. Not least, we have a centuries-old history together. We have great cultural similarities and a great cultural exchange. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs also mentions, we have not least some trade in common, both exports and imports, as well as tourist flows and other things. In particular, we share the geopolitical and security political realities of the Baltic Sea. That's where I think we have a consensus. Before I continue, I would like to point out that I understand that it is difficult to be a foreign minister. The international arena is a minefield. But for this very reason it is extremely important to think both once and twice about what steps you are taking. I will not say that I am an expert in this area, because I certainly am not. I would certainly not be fit as Foreign Minister because of the way I am making things. But that much I understand from the international game that signal politics is of the utmost importance. And this time I feel that the Foreign Minister and her colleagues have failed completely. In Swedish and Finnish media, the first meeting of foreign ministers appeared to be extremely chilly. Hence my choice of words that it feels like an affront to Finland. The choice of words might be discussed, but that's how I experienced it there and then. It was also a while since this happened, so it has run some water under the bridges. Unfortunately, the fact that there is a certain contradiction of a party political nature is reinforced by the fact that, just a few weeks ago, at the beginning of this month, the Minister for Foreign Affairs had a play on Finland's election in relation to the refugee situation that we are seeing today. I may find it a little problematic to engage in this emotional debate with a country with which it intends to cooperate closely in this open way. Perhaps there are other ways of expressing oneself then, perhaps behind closed doors. What I do not quite understand from this meeting is why no press conference was held. There are those who say it was a tight schedule. However, it should reasonably have been possible to make a short move together just to reinforce the image of unity. I am concerned that if there are, or appear to be, cracks between Sweden and Finland, there are stakeholders, not least around the Baltic Sea, but unfortunately also some domestic lobbyists, who may well take advantage of this on various issues. Given that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has a long history on the international stage, I would like to ask the following: does the Minister for Foreign Affairs understand the importance of signal policy and the importance of showing unity? I wonder if the Foreign Minister does not understand that it risks being perceived as negative as it has done.
i-e51117834085aba8-110	Mr President, I would like to It's good, Jeff Ahl, that we can put this issue to rest now. You will be told exactly how this happened. You might say that at least you have a strong sense of melodrama. If it then belongs in foreign policy or not, others may well take a position on it. But I'll tell you what it was like. Timo Soini wanted to go on as soon as possible and visit the Baltic countries. We agreed that he would be allowed to come to Sweden as soon as possible on the first visit he made. That is why we had telephone contact about how to arrange this in the best possible way. Then he said the only chance is that he'll be late at night. At the same time, I attended the state visit with the Indian president. We discussed how we would get this into each other's agendas. Then we offered a meeting at Arlanda Airport, which was the only time left. But we said we'd make it as nice as we could. There is a good restaurant where we could have a meal together and have a working dinner. We said that if he accepted it, we could arrange it this way. And he said it suited him just fine. We also felt that we had no time for anything but a photo opportunity, which we had. We fully agreed on this approach. You shouldn't believe everything that's written in the papers. I spoke to Timo Soini on the phone just the other day. We agreed that we actually need to put this right and explain to everyone involved, including the Finnish media, who now has an interest in disseminating this image, that this picture is completely incorrect. We fully agreed that this was the best solution. He wanted to come here on the first bilateral visit, just as I visited Finland. But time allowed only that, since he went directly on to the Baltics. Nor have I in any way reprimanded. Jeff Ahl, if you want, you can listen to the playback of what I've said about our cooperation on receiving refugees and so on. I have not insulted anyone; on the contrary, we have very close contact and regular discussions at all meetings where we meet. We're really meeting again, but not just that. We have also decided, as was the case with Timo Soinis's predecessor Erkki Tuomioja, that we should call each other as soon as something happens in our respective countries that the others have an interest in knowing. Let's call and talk about it on the phone. We have resumed this habit, and we have excellent and respectful cooperation, and we really do not insult each other, but instead discuss and talk to each other. Let's do that. I can say that lately I've met Timo Soini more often than I've met my own husband. I therefore believe that we can now rest on this and say that we have excellent cooperation. These are newspaper ducks you shouldn't always believe, Jeff Ahl.
i-e51117834085aba8-116	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I do not think I used the word insulting when I thought that the Foreign Minister had spoken about the migration policy events in our neighbourhood and around us. I just pointed out that I believe that, given the security situation around the Baltic Sea, we should be extremely careful about how we choose to produce this precisely because we have the media. I'm the first person to sign that you shouldn't believe everything the media says. However, I note that what is being signaled is exactly what I raised in my interpellation, and I find that unfortunate. I think we should understand how the media act. But I can endorse what the Foreign Minister says. But you should know so much about Swedish media that it can be this kind of stories whether they are true or not. Once again, I think it is positive that there is an open and constant dialogue between our countries. It feels safe, not least in view of the fact that the Swedish Democrats support the rapprochement with Finland. We also want to take this much further than the government wants. We want defence cooperation to become a full defence alliance, and the Minister for Foreign Affairs knows that. But I'm still worried. In view of the foreign minister's statement today, it is a somewhat relaxed concern. But I also note that there are government officials who have spoken negatively about the True Finns. I hope that the government will ensure that it also keeps a good tone internally against those who might become partners in a negotiation. Hence, there is still concern in my mind that it may appear that there are cracks. Maybe they don't exist. But it may seem that they do. And it's probably so serious. If you both understood that there was no possibility of a statement, fine. I wasn't there and therefore can't know exactly. Yet, there may be a need for such a thing to completely kill the discussion and to prove that there is no such problem.
i-e51117834085aba8-121	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for the clarification. It was good and constructive and not at all unexpected. Those of us who know how it happened, how the meeting was, realize that these were pure media ducks. The media sometimes choose to interpret data in a completely independent way so that it is not always correctly reproduced. That's why it's great that the Secretary of State says what it was like. In diplomacy, the word insult is rather harsh, Mrs Ahl. It is not an expression that is used lightly in foreign policy. Then you go quite hard in the talks you hold nationally but also between countries. Swedish-Finnish cooperation is very good. I have the privilege of attending, among other things, the Nordic Council. There we have the absolute best conversations with our Finnish friends and delegates, at all levels. It also creates the absolute best conditions for dialogue and dialogue, economic policy, defence policy and, not least, tourism policy, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs was concerned about. I would be very surprised if, at a meeting of foreign ministers for the first time, there were to be some other situation. The meetings are often about consensus. In certain situations, one can of course criticize one another internally for different things. But mainly Finland is our closest neighbour to the east, just as Norway is to the west. These relations must and must be strengthened and developed in all dimensions. I am surprised that this interpellation has come up. I heard Jeff Ahl backed a little from the word insult. It's good that he did it. That's such a strong word. It also creates strange expectations and signals that Sweden, the Swedish parliament but above all the government would have a different approach to Finland. We certainly do not. We stand up for that relationship. We always will, in different contexts. It was unfortunate that that particular word became part of the headline of Jeff Ahls's interpellation. I could have understood the interpellation a little better if it had had a slightly more factual heading. But now it's worked out pretty well. I really appreciate the foreign minister's clarification. I also understand that Jeff Ahl has backed up a little in his opinion and softened the tone of his interpellation. I look forward to the government continuing to have a very good and constructive dialogue with our Finnish friends, not least the Finnish Foreign Minister.
i-e51117834085aba8-128	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Pyry Niemi and Jeff Ahl, for your comments! It is good that we had to correct the fact that I and the Finnish Foreign Minister were in complete agreement on the arrangement of our first meeting. It was in the usual order about how we should cooperate between countries, of course, our bilateral cooperation, but also about how we should act in the EU context. We went through a series of topical issues to feel each other's positions. I also listened to what he had to say about their attitude to various current political issues. The meeting was very constructive and very good. Actually, I think you should judge people by what they do. Although we have sometimes had different opinions, as we have in politics, it has turned out that we have been able to cooperate very constructively. We have been able to have dialogue even when we may not have had exactly the same starting points. But we have great respect for each other. This remains the closest cooperation we have. This means that we can call each other and answer various topical questions. I therefore blame this more on the melodramatic feature of Jeff Ahl than on any conflict between Sweden and Finland. It's not like that at all. We continue to work well together. On the second question, I do not know where it comes from either. We have had a discussion on how to solve the practical challenges of large refugee flows. My only comment has touched on what we ourselves learned, historically, from receiving so many Finnish war children. It wasn't about trying to teach someone else. I said: These are important lessons for oss. What can we learn from coping with it then, and how can we use that knowledge now? This is the case throughout EU cooperation. We get colleagues who can belong to a party that I might think has extreme opinions sometimes or opinions that are very far from my own party sympathies. But we're working together. We have to work together. We are trying to maintain a respectful dialogue. It happens regularly. Of course, this is also happening with the True Finns now. I have a good and close relationship with Timo Soini.
i-e51117834085aba8-134	Mr President, I would like to You have to face up to your mistakes. In view of what the Foreign Minister has said today, there was absolutely some justified criticism that it was an excessive choice of words. However, in view of what the Prime Minister calls me and my fellow party members and in view of the moves made by the leading party representatives of the Foreign Minister's party, I was afraid and worried that it would somehow spill over on what was happening and written. That was the reason for the choice of words. But as I said, I'm not the one who is. I realize my mistakes. As I said at the outset, I will never become a foreign minister precisely because I can sometimes act a little too much with the spinal reflexes. But I can still apologize. I believe that the Foreign Minister and the government should also learn from the mistakes they make. It doesn't matter if it's the media making a thing out of it and it's wrong. If they do it and misinterpret it, it is also a problem. Then you have to realize that you may have made a mistake and that there may be a need to think for an extra time about how to do it next time. As I said at the outset, now that I am on the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I have understood and very much noticed that the international arena is a minefield. You have to be careful how you act. I am extremely concerned about what it looks like around the Baltic Sea and therefore see a need to be overly clear so that it is not exploited by those who may have an interest in such a split or, above all, in making it appear that there would be some differences between us.
i-e51117834085aba8-139	Mr President, I would like to I would also like to say thank you to Jeff Ahl, who backed back here a little bit. It is worthy of respect in a context like this. Foreign policy is certainly not easy. The Minister for Foreign Affairs is out travelling a lot and meeting many different colleagues. I am convinced that diplomacy requires that it is often clear but sometimes also cautious. Of course, it depends on the context in which you talk and deliver your messages. It is true that we in the Committee on Foreign Affairs also need to train ourselves to say the right things at the right time. No one is infallible. There are mistakes on every side. The government can make mistakes and MPs can make mistakes. The dignitaries and government representatives of other countries can also make mistakes and say strange things at the wrong times. They may also at times be able to say things in affects at various times. In essence, however, we should be careful with language. We must protect and care for it. I think it is important that we are clear. We should also have such a relationship that we should be able to say things to each other that we stand up and are passionate about. But language is important, not least in diplomacy, in social relations and here in the Chamber. I appreciate Jeff Ahl saying what he said here from the speaker's seat, and I certainly appreciate the clarity of the Foreign Minister and her continued increased interest in keeping in good contact with the Finnish Foreign Minister in the future in order to strengthen Finnish-Swedish relations.
i-e51117834085aba8-144	Mr President, I would like to At the end, this was a moment for confession that I do not know if I want to contribute so much more than to say that this concerns a larger issue that sometimes also concerns how things are presented and how the media describe it. But we can also help by at least adding this question to the file. Thank you very much.
i-e51117834085aba8-145	Mr President, I would like to Robert Hannah has asked me if I can assure you that Swedish aid will reach the genocide-affected group of Assyrians in Iraq, whether I believe that the requirement for aid to be given in general should also apply when the Assyrian group is so discriminated against that it may not or dare to take part in aid funds that Sweden sends and why Muslim organisations like Islamic Relief receive Swedish aid funds when Christian churches or the organization Assyrian Without Borders are not considered suitable for aid projects in Iraq. The humanitarian situation in Iraq has worsened dramatically over the past year with the success of Isil. More than 3 million Iraqis have fled their homes and more than 8 million are in need of help. Not least religious and ethnic minority groups are particularly vulnerable. Sweden supports the UN humanitarian operation in Iraq and has since 2014 contributed SEK 303 million in humanitarian aid. The support goes via Sida to the UN agencies that have operations in place in the country, including UNICEF, WFP, World Food Programme, and UNHCR, which in turn collaborates with several, small and large, civil society organisations known as NGOs. Furthermore, support is also provided through the UN Global Emergency Aid Fund, Cerf, which will provide the UN's local Chief Coordinator with rapid and effective assistance. The Swedish humanitarian aid policy is conducted on the basis of the basic humanitarian principles of humanity, independence, independence and neutrality, and with reference to international humanitarian law, the IHL. Humanitarian aid must be directed at all those in need, regardless of political, religious or ethnic origin or geographical area of residence. Undistinguishable support for people in need increases the chances of the humanitarian actors' lifesaving efforts being accepted and given access by the parties to the conflict. Because of the security situation in Iraq, humanitarian access is limited and unpredictable. The UN's new humanitarian response plan for Iraq, presented in June, describes the problem well and sets out what needs to be done to improve access to those in need in particularly difficult areas. With a more thorough risk evaluation, with an up-to-date needs assessment and in cooperation with Iraqi authorities, the UN and its partners in the field are doing their utmost, not infrequently under high risk, to ensure that humanitarian aid reaches those who need it, regardless of ethnic background or religious affiliation. Robert Hannah asks me why some and not other aid organisations receive Swedish aid funds. Sida – our development agency – appoints strategic partners on behalf of the government for allocating aid funds in the field. The decisions are based on a thorough and detailed evaluation work that is carried out on an ongoing basis. Sida's decision is that the support is given in a way that is needs-based and impartial and in line with the humanitarian principles. For example, the national Red Cross organisations are indispensable through their local knowledge and ability to act in complex environments, which is often made possible by their neutrality. Sida's activities are of such a nature that support is primarily given to established humanitarian organisations with many years of experience in large-scale humanitarian programmes, but that these organisations in turn often work in partnership with smaller, local, actors. In the light of the UN's newly established Pooled Fund for Iraq, there should be new opportunities for such actors to apply for funds for their activities. Of course, we will continue to do everything we can to help the vulnerable people who are living in the consequences of an increasingly worsening humanitarian situation.
i-e51117834085aba8-151	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister for Development, for the answer to my interpellation! I would like to start by pointing out that I am proud that Sweden is a major donor of humanitarian aid to Iraq. There are no dividing lines between me and the Minister for Development on this issue. I would also like to point out that I also share the view of the Minister for Development on the basic principle of aid policy: humanity, independence, independence and neutrality. The assistance shall be objective and given as necessary and not subjectively. Unfortunately, however, this is not the case with regard to aid to Iraq. I can guarantee you that, because I've seen it with my own eyes. The groups most in need of aid do not benefit from Swedish aid today, especially when it comes to the genocide-affected Assyrians. Mr President, I would like to With all due respect – since I consider the Minister for Development to be an extremely competent person whom I admire – the Minister for Development and, in particular, her adviser to the Ministry for Foreign Affairs show a great deal of ignorance as to what aid to Iraq actually goes to and who gets access to it. Why we are standing here today is precisely because aid to Iraq is not directed at everyone, is not given fair to all communities. Instead of targeting the most distressed groups – Yazidians, Assyrians who are victims of genocide and others too – aid is given directly into the hands of those in power or organisations that discriminate against these groups. Or the aid is given to organisations that are not trusted, such as Islamic R elief. Why should a Christian Assyrian turn to an Islamic organisation when, over the past ten years, one has been hunted, raped, oppressed and discriminated against by Muslims? Why could such an organization ever have confidence from these groups? I visited almost fifty refugee camps in Iraq in March. Most camps were Assyrian camps, and I myself have the same background. I also visited Yazidian camps and camps with Kurds from Syria. It was clear to me that there was no UN support or support from other aid organisations in the Assyrian camps. However, I saw that Carita and other Christian aid foundations were in place. The Assyrian Aid Society was in place and reached villages far up in the mountains. But the Swedish flag and the UN flag shone with their absence. I asked all campers what the camps had received through UN support or international assistance, and they showed up a transformer financed by international aid. Everything else had been created through private donations. When I talked to the Swedish Embassy in Baghdad, I became even more confused. I told them what I saw and asked them about the aid. They said quite clearly that they cannot guarantee that Swedish aid will cover the Assyrian group, that it will arrive. Nor can they guarantee that the organisations which, according to the Minister for Development, have been developed in Sweden with great knowledge reach the Assyrian group. The Minister for Development is here talking about humanitarian principles, neutrality, justice and the like when one of the most vulnerable groups does not benefit from the aid. My question to the Minister for Development therefore remains. Someone's wrong at this point. Is it the Swedish Embassy when they talk to me or is it the Minister for Development? Can the Minister for Development guarantee that the Assyrian people in Iraq will receive Swedish and international aid in a neutral and fair manner?
i-e51117834085aba8-159	Mr President, I would like to I note that today we have a situation in the world that we have not seen equivalent to since the Second World War. The war has torn apart Syria and forced 4 million to flee. We have ISIL in Iraq which, with its progress, makes the situation even more nightmarelike. One of the consequences of the extremely complex situation is that large areas in both Syria and Iraq are occupied and that there is no humanitarian access to the areas. Last year 270 aid workers were either killed, kidnapped or seriously injured in carrying out their humanitarian aid work. Of course, it is very serious that respect for humanitarian access has been reduced in the conflict, that the parties do not respect humanitarian principles. As to whether one can guarantee that a particular group has been helped, I would like to say that I cannot guarantee anything. I know that the Swedish approach to humanitarian principles is to ensure that it is a means-tested approach, so that the people who need the most help, not groups or ethnic minorities specifically as a group, but the people who have the greatest need, will of course receive help to the extent possible. Those who have managed to leave the occupied territories, various minorities and religious groups, and have come to areas where the UN and others have access, I would say, have the opportunity to get help through UN organisations. It is important to stress that the terrible situation and tragedy we see taking place in the area are not largely the fault of humanitarian organisations. They try to help and alleviate the distress and the tremendous suffering that the war has caused. It is also a political problem that we must address in order to end the war. The humanitarian principles, that the focus should be on the need-based, neutral, independent and humanitarian nature of the assistance, are crucial for maintaining respect for humanitarian access. Neither party to the conflict has the experience of giving assistance to one party but not to the other. In that case, we will further undermine the very difficult conditions already in place for humanitarian aid workers. Sweden, through its development agency Sida, gives above all to the major organisations that have technical expertise and broad experience, such as UNICEF, World Food Programme and UNHCR. We also provide through Iraq's Humanitarian Food Fund. All these organisations use small sub-organisations that try to reach out as far as possible. Through these organisations, we are trying to reach out as much as we can. We do not in any way exclude cooperation with Assyrian organisations, nor with the Church of Sweden, which, moreover, receives as much support as Islamic Relief, which has existed since 1984 and works according to the humanitarian principles.
i-e51117834085aba8-167	Mr President, I would like to Since we talk about needs and experiences, it would be good to have knowledge of it. I would like the Minister for Development to have a discussion with Isak Betsimon, who is an environmentalist politician and who can inform the Minister for Development of the situation of this people's group. We need to recognise that Iraq's minorities are unlawful and unprotected in an increasingly sectarian country. That situation did not arise only when Isis came into the world. Iraq's population has increased by 30 percent since the United States invaded the country in 2003 – by 30 percent. At the same time, Iraq's Assyrian population has fallen from 11⁄2 million to 250 000. Because of religious persecution, oppression and discrimination, many minorities have gone to Sweden. There has been a total collapse of the Assyrian community. We can take another group, the Mandeans. In Iraq there were 100,000 mandés before the invasion. Sweden is the country where there are most mandés today. There are about 7,000 mandés in Sweden. There are barely any left in Iraq. When you talk about needs and experiences, you have to realise that when Sweden chooses to give aid money only to Muslim organisations, there is no chance in the world that the other groups will have confidence in the country. When I go to my home village in Iraq where there are people in need, where refugees live, I see the flags of the Assyrian Aid Society. I see Assyrian organizations coming and handing out food. They do not receive a penny from Swedish or international aid. When I visit the camps, there's nothing there. These people are in the same need of help as everyone else. When I was in Iraq, I was discriminated against; I have an Assyrian background. I saw with my own eyes people being discriminated against. I myself was discriminated against at almost every checkpoint I passed. They ask what origin you have. If I say I'm an Assyrian, I'll be stopped and the whole car will be checked out. If I say anything else, I'll have to stop by. We need to understand what challenges we have. I can guarantee that aid will not reach the Assyrian community. I promise the Prime Minister that's the case. With regard to Swedish aid and the great ignorance with which it is distributed, it harms more than it contributes. The experience among minority peoples is still that they are disadvantaged, that they are left behind, that they do not receive any support. Aid is not fair. It's not impartial. On the contrary, it helps groups that may not have as much need as other groups where the need is much greater. I really wish that the Ministry for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Development would review what Swedish aid goes to and ensure that it reaches the groups that are most vulnerable. Otherwise, all the fine words that describe our development policy, as the Minister for Development mentions here, are just snow mosh. That doesn't match reality. I myself have been to Iraq, and I urge the Minister for Development to go down to the safe areas of Iraq and Syria and see for myself whether or not what I say is true. Otherwise, as the Minister for Development says, we are not doing everything in our power to ensure that things are right.
i-e51117834085aba8-176	Mr President, I would like to I have no doubt at all that there are numerous minorities and ethnic groups in Iraq and elsewhere in the region that are discriminated against. It is a fact, and we are conducting a political dialogue with the governments on that fact. It is a very unfortunate development in the area, to say the least. I would really like to emphasise that it is not as Robert Hannah says, that we are only providing aid through Muslim organisations. For example, we use the Church of Sweden and Diakonia, Christian organizations that also work according to the humanitarian principles. When you look at, for example, Assyrians Without Borders, they aim, according to the website, specifically at Assyrians. It goes against the principles that Swedish aid works on, the humanitarian global principles for this. We must maintain the neutral, needs-based assessment at all times. There are a wide range of ethnic and religious groups involved in the area. There are Kurds in Kobane, Shiites in Deir el-Zour, Sunni in Anbar, Yazidi in Sinjar, Palestinians in Yarmouk and Christians in Hasakeh and Mosul. If we were to focus on all these people group by group, our neutrality could be called into question. We must focus on people and their needs and then try to reach out through organisations that can guarantee impartiality, technical know-how and experience that we as donors can rely on. I would also like to point out that smaller organisations can always apply for support. The Iraq Humanitarian Pooled Fund provides rapid treatment and assessment. It is not in any way the case that people are excluded, but there are opportunities to apply for support both via Sida and through UN organisations. The fact that Swedish aid harms more than it does good was a very drastic formulation. Sweden is one of the largest humanitarian donors in the world, the fifth largest. We are not only giving to the Syria conflict; we are giving to a long list of forgotten conflicts and refugees today – from refugees from Somalia, South Sudan, Darfur and Afghanistan to a host of Palestinians and Sahrawis. All these people have been forced away because of wars and conflicts. Since 2011, we have contributed SEK 1.6 billion in Syria and Iraq. SEK 520 million has gone to the crisis in Iraq. I dare say that with our means we have helped millions of people find refuge and at least get shelter and access to school, health care and food. I don't think we should be ashamed of that in any way. Let's see if we can get through. We maintain a dialogue with all our partners at all times. It is, of course, important to carry out analyses, and we do so on an ongoing basis.
i-e51117834085aba8-183	Mr President, I would like to The Minister for Development cannot guarantee that we will reach the Assyrian group here. It's completely irrelevant who gets the funds. I don't care. For me, it is relevant that the money and the aid reach these groups. You can trust my experience or not, but I have been there and I have seen it for myself: The Assyrian community does not get part of the aid money that the Swedish government pats its chest and says that it distributes. It's great that we're handing out money. I support it 100%. However, if the groups most affected are not supported, we are not neutral. Then we are not fair and impartial, but some groups will have a strengthened situation but others will not. It is quite clear that today the Minister for Development has no understanding of the seriousness of the situation for these minority groups. It didn't all start with Isis. Almost 1.3 million Assyrians had left Iraq before Isis arrived. This existed in the past, and it was extreme discrimination in the past. But it's Isis who might finish the job now, unless we from around the world help. When I'm in these camps, I feel that the people there feel forgotten, unhelped and deprived compared to others. In other camps it's full of UN signs, but in Assyrian camps it's easy to drink dirty water to survive. I don't think it's sustainable. After discussions with the Swedish Embassy in Baghdad, it seems obvious that they in principle admit that they do not reach this group. It is clear, then, that it is also not a fair distribution of funds, especially given that it is a genocide-torn group. It can be guaranteed that this group has a strong need for help. I would like the Minister for Development to be a little more humble, to review this and to promise me that she intends to ensure that these situations are looked at so that the aid reaches this group as well. That would be the most fair thing.
i-e51117834085aba8-188	Mr President, I would like to I'm very humble. During my year as Minister of Aid, I have travelled as much as I could. I have visited refugee camps where refugees from Syria are. I have not yet come to Iraq, but I will of course also go there. I have no doubt for a moment that the situation is terrible for a wide range of religious and ethnic minorities and also for the broad layers of Sunni who are in the occupied territory of Iraq. Help needs to be able to get through. So far, we are in complete agreement. Then you must also use the channels and organisations that you really trust and can have long-term confidence in. I believe that the problem that sometimes arises when the UN, Sida or other actors now have to choose partners is that it is assessed that some organisations can possibly contribute to conflict and can expose aid workers to a risk if you do not really monitor neutrality. We must have organisations that we trust. We also have very high demands in Swedish aid for Swedish tax funds to be used in a way that can be trusted. Humanitarian aid to Iraq began during the war in Syria. We had no specific humanitarian aid in the past. On the contrary, Sweden was phasing out its bilateral assistance to Iraq under the previous government. What happened before the war was very unfortunate. We are conducting a political dialogue with the governments, as I said.
i-e51117834085aba8-191	Mr President, I would like to Niklas Wykman has asked me if the announcement from the 2015 budget bill on the cut-off point, the reduction of job tax deductions and the increase in special wage tax for older people are fixed. Both the 2015 Spring Economic Bill and the 2015 Spring Change Budget announced that the Government would return with proposals from the Government's 2015 Budget Bill that were not included in the Spring Change Budget. It cannot therefore be a great surprise that these proposals, albeit slightly adjusted, are contained in the Government's proposal for the 2016 budget proposal, which was presented yesterday.
i-e51117834085aba8-192	Mr President, I would like to As the Minister of Finance noted, the interpellation is somewhat old. It has a few moons on its neck by now but has not been able to be answered before. We now know what tax proposals the government made in the budget bill, and it is very clear how those proposals hit jobs. That is why, Mr President, I called in the past for clear answers on the tax increases that would be realised so that jobs, growth, businesses and households would not suffer unpleasant surprises. Mr President, I would like to These unpleasant surprises for households came yesterday. Although the Minister of Finance tried to remove the accounting from the budget bill, it became clear that eight out of ten households now have reduced disposable income after many years in a row of reinforcements of household disposable income. Mr President, I would like to It may be that I am wrong here, but it is not entirely unbelievable that this is the first government since the 1990s crisis that is causing households a deterioration in the development of disposable income. It is of course very serious, Mr President, at a time when we are faced with a need to strengthen Swedish employment, push back exclusion and ensure that more jobs emerge. Reducing households' confidence and confidence in the future when economic recovery does not want to fully take off is a damaging policy. This, Mr President, is not just my opinion. The government's own industrial chancellor Karl Gustaf Ramstedt says today: I do not think it is a budget that promotes jobs. The government's own industrial chancellor continues to say that relatively normal wages are affected, which is negative. We are now looking at huge tax increases. It is tax increases on jobs and growth of approximately SEK 30 billion that are hitting Swedish companies' opportunities to create jobs, Swedish households' opportunities to feel confident about the future and our ability to stand up to the competition that prevails in the world around us. Mr President, I would like to Looking at the tax incentives and changes that were promised by the Minister for Finance and the government, we also have a lot of betrayals in the budget. It is about pensioners, for example, where the betrayal factory on Jakobsgatan strikes again. It was unexpected that additional burdens would be imposed on working when people had passed 65 years of age and increased home care fees. With the tax changes that are taking place, we see from the total that the pensioner collective does not now get the improvements that it was promised. On the contrary, it will be at best plus minus zero. Mr President, I would like to It is also worrying that the government's long-term tax proposals do not strengthen public finances. Lennart Flood has calculated, for example, that the tax increases proposed by the government on labour income for large groups do not give the revenue that the government imagines in its budget bill. Jonas Sjöstedt said earlier today that the government has zero credibility. Really, I wouldn't go that far. But it is clear that this budget does not strengthen Sweden's resilience and the ability to create jobs and growth. Mr President, I would like to It would therefore have been good if we had had a more frank discussion early on about the tax increases that we now have before us.
i-e51117834085aba8-200	Mr President, I would like to Niklas Wykman says that it is the first government since the 1990s to present a budget that reduces part of households' disposable income. I'm sure that's correct. It is also the first time since the 1990s crisis that we have had a bourgeois government that has left behind large budget deficits. Of the three possible times that we have had bourgeois governments in Sweden, they have left behind large budget deficits which, since the coming Social Democratic or Social Democratic-led government, have had to deal with. That's the way it is this time. Therefore, in a situation where large budget deficits have been inherited, while unemployment is high and school outcomes are falling faster than in any other analogue country, the government has had to take a firm hold on public finances and also put in place measures for more people to get to work and to reverse school developments. To achieve this, the government has reduced taxes. Niklas Wykman asked the government for clear information on tax matters. Yesterday, the government gave clear answers in the budget bill.
i-e51117834085aba8-202	Mr President, I would like to Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson often returns to the same point of speech, which is probably written by strategists at Sveavägen. Bourgeois governments, middle-right governments or alliance governments always drive the Swedish economy to the bottom. However, there is no truth in this. The EU Commission, the IMF and the OECD – find the international judge who does not praise the Alliance government for how it managed the economic crisis and for the economic position that Sweden left the crisis with! When Magdalena Andersson took up the role of Finance Minister, Sweden perhaps even had the strongest public finances throughout the EU. To call it a failure, a disaster or something else, to which the Minister of Finance is happy to return on public finances, is simply not true. If the Minister of Finance also goes back to the Ministry of Finance and looks at the memos and budgets that former Social Democratic governments have written, it is very clear that the major crisis that hit Sweden in the early 90s was caused by a protracted and sloppy public financial policy conducted primarily by Social Democrats. Kjell-Kjell-Olof Feldt has also described this in his memoirs, where he talks about whale fever. That election fever also got Magdalena Andersson a throw of before the election, when they promised very large expenses. Now we see that expenditure is being realised. That is just over 50 billion in increased expenditure. Some of it can certainly be called investments and investments. But most of it is that the government has lost control of itself and public finances. As a result, cost developments are now running into a wide range of compensation systems, social security systems and expenditure systems. Mr President, I would like to It is worrying with a cost development of more than SEK 50 billion, tax increases of about SEK 30 billion on jobs and growth and a government that does not want to present what this means for the long term for jobs. It also does not present a plan for how to deal with the cost increases. Instead, the government says on a budget day: we will come back to that. When should you come back to how to deal with a country's major challenges if not when presenting a budget? Instead, eight out of ten Swedish households receive reduced disposable income in favour of primarily managing cost increases that are not presented with control over but also to consciously extend the benefit systems that have previously been involved in causing large exclusions in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to This is not a responsible policy if we want to be a country where all people who are able to work also get a job to go to. It is the old policy that was pursued in the 1990s and 2000s and that resulted in Sweden losing the ability to be the best country or among the best countries to be in. As a result, so many people were hidden, condemned and forgotten in various systems. Now we see that the seats will increase while the government's employment policy, according to the Institute for Economic Development, leads to the loss of 15 000 – 20 000 jobs. Mr President, I would like to It would be the responsibility of the Minister of Finance to present measures or at least a description or indication of how the cost increase could not be achieved. Otherwise, exclusion will grow very quickly in the future.
i-e51117834085aba8-210	Mr President, I would like to Niklas Wykman is quite right that not only was a large budget deficit left behind when the 2014 elections were lost, but also running costs in several of the systems that existed. The costs ran out in the assistance allowance, in the health insurance and for the ROT deductions, however, without the previous government doing anything to try to mitigate those costs. In addition, the costs of health insurance increased extremely. It managed to increase the costs by SEK 12 billion, while nearly 100 000 people were insured out of health insurance. It must be a record in failed politics. Now the government is taking this and a lot of other measures. The previous government seems to have had a passionate interest in working with very expensive and ineffective measures. For example, we are now removing the reductions in employers' contributions for young people. It was a very expensive and ineffective measure. We remove the establishment slots, the equality bonus and some other measures that have been expensive and ineffective. We limit the cost development of ROT by changing the subsidy rate in ROT. We do something about the costs of the assistance compensation by changing the list. We are doing something about the costs of receiving refugees by halving the standard for unaccompanied refugee children by organising other forms of housing. In addition, we will come up with many proposals for measures on health insurance. It will be the government to present in the near future. However, that was not what the interpellation was about, but it was whether the government gave clear answers in tax matters. The government did that yesterday.
i-e51117834085aba8-214	Mr President, I would like to It was clear from the Minister for Finance's reply that the Minister of Finance does not intend to provide any information on how costs can be reduced when it comes, for example, to the health insurance system. On the contrary, the budget contains proposals to increase the cost of health insurance systems. As costs increase in public finances, only deficits remain. Magdalena Andersson has presented a budget that has structural deficits all years except for the last year of the budget period. Now absolute subsidies are being raised, and costs are being squeezed up on borrowed money, to quote how the Minister of Finance used to describe the support given to Swedish jobs during the economic crisis. Now it's not a crisis anymore. But the government is borrowing money to expand the benefit systems. Nor, as the Minister for Finance says, will there be any clear indication of the tax increases. What, for example, about Professor Flood's clear description of the fact that the tax increases that the government undertakes on higher incomes do not lead to any increase in revenue in public finances? Budgetaryly, theoretically, framework-wise – call it what you want for how you count – it becomes money in. But in reality there will be no more money in because people simply exchange their working time for more leisure time when it will no longer pay off to work. When 6 out of 10 dollars is to go to taxes, people will simply work a little less. It is described very well, but the Minister of Finance does not want to take public financial responsibility for this at all. She pretends that money that no one really believes is going to come in anyway is going to get into the state budget.
i-e51117834085aba8-219	Mr President, I would like to It will be exciting to follow the development of hours worked for the people who will receive the tapered job tax deduction. I myself will work as many hours next year as I have this year. But it will be interesting to see if, for example, Niklas Wykman submits significantly fewer interpellations next year after receiving a higher marginal tax. We will follow this closely, and so will the other Moderate Members of Parliament. Will their work intensity with regard to interpellations change with tax changes? I look forward to further debates on the subject. The question was whether the government gave clear answers. Yes, we have given clear information.
i-e51117834085aba8-221	Mr President, I would like to Niklas Wykman has asked me whether I cannot wait until other effective measures for young people with a weak link to the labour market have been identified with the abolition of the reduced social security contributions for young people. As Niklas Wykman notes, the results of IFAU's evaluation show that the reduction in social security contributions for young people is a cost-effective measure that has had no employment effect at all for groups of young people with weak links to the labour market. Both the Financial Policy Council, the Swedish National Audit Office, the Swedish Financial Control Agency and the Swedish Public Employment Service share IFAU's conclusion that the reduction is ineffective. Thus, a measure costing about $8 billion annually does not seem to have helped young people who are in greatest need of support. That is precisely why the government is abolishing the reduction. Instead, the government invests in targeted measures for young people who are in greatest need of support through, for example, training contracts, trainee jobs and more adult education. Instead, by targeting measures at young people in difficulty, government policies will contribute to reducing unemployment. Since the policy to reduce youth unemployment is being changed in a more appropriate direction, the government finds no reason to delay the recovery of the reduced social security contributions. Moreover, in view of the fact that the previous government left behind the biggest deficit since the 1990s crisis, it is important that new reforms are now fully funded.
i-e51117834085aba8-225	Mr President, I would like to No country in the European Union had stronger public finances than Sweden had when the Alliance withdrew from government power – no other country! Sweden had the strongest or absolutely strongest public finances throughout the European Union. I am saying this because the Minister of Finance keeps coming back to this. I would like to ask the Minister of Finance clearly what she means. I repeat from the interpellation response: as Niklas Wykman notes, the results of IFAU's evaluation show that the reduction in social security contributions for young people is a cost-effective measure that has had no employment effect at all for groups of young people with weak links to the labour market. The Minister of Finance therefore begins with the words, as Niklas Wykman states. I simply wonder, Magdalena Andersson: Where do I note this? Mr President, I would like to We have become accustomed to a finance minister who betrays various types of promises. RUT and ROT would not deteriorate. It's getting worse. The Minister of Finance described it yesterday as chaos in Swedish public finances in 2014, when the OECD, the IMF and the European Commission believe that we had among the strongest public finances. We have heard Magdalena Andersson describe that the surplus target is fixed and that it should be an important steering year for Social Democratic policy. The surplus target will now be both investigated and abolished. We have heard the Minister of Finance describe how the petrol tax should not be increased. The tax on petrol is now rising. We have heard how the Minister of Finance describes that ordinary income earners would not receive an increase in income tax. Now we know that more than 1 million ordinary income earners receive this tax increase. The list can be made a long way over statements that have not at all had the meaning that one might think they have, namely, as the words are said. We also know that the government and the Ministry of Finance are receiving strong criticism. You can see this if you read through the referrals contained in the budget proposal from Arbetsförmedlingen, Tillväxtverket, Konjunkturinstitutet, Saco and the Swedish Financial Control Agency. It is either that the impact of policies is not properly described or that public financial impact is not properly described or simply that it is not described how the measures will work in reality or affect the people affected by them. Mr President, I would like to Nevertheless, I would like the Minister of Finance not to quote in any way or to attribute any opinion to his counter-debaters. So I wonder, Magdalena Andersson: Where would I have claimed or claimed these things?
i-e51117834085aba8-231	Mr President, I would like to Niklas Wykman is absolutely right. What he writes in the interpellation is that the report shows that three groups of young people find it difficult to establish themselves in the labour market. You don't exactly write that it is shown that this very thing has had no effect on these groups. On the other hand, it has made it very difficult for those groups to establish themselves. I think Niklas Wykman is right; I could have quoted him better. On the other hand, the report shows that this is an expensive and inefficient measure which does not help young people who have the most difficulties in the labour market. That is why the government is now putting in place measures precisely for the group of young people who are in the most difficult situation to enter, and it is young people who do not have upper secondary education. For them, the government is now proposing a training contract that is a new measure that we have never tried before in Sweden. On the other hand, Denmark has done so with great success. This measure will support young people who do not have upper secondary education in order to be able to take this education. It's about meeting the person and the youth where it is. You can combine this with education and with work, you can study at folk high school and you can try combining education with practice. It's about meeting the young person where it is in order for it to complete its upper secondary school education. This is not just an offer, it should also be a requirement to be able to receive compensation from society. It is a training contract that involves both opportunities and clear requirements. It is a very good proposal, and this has worked well in Denmark. I find it so hard to understand why the Moderates are opposed to the proposal.
i-e51117834085aba8-234	Mr President, I would like to I welcome investment in education and training for those young people who are the toughest in the labour market. Sweden should be a country where we invest in people's knowledge in order to have a society that stays together and where all people have good opportunities to build a good life. I wonder, however, how the Minister for Finance is thinking about joining the labour market and how to get his first job in Sweden. We have seen developments in which the composition of the people in exclusion has changed at a relatively rapid rate. When the Alliance took office in 2006, there was, among other things, the problem from previous governments that one in ten persons of working age was early retirement. Early retirement was used as a tool to mask unemployment and fix the statistics. That is no longer the case, Mr President. The numbers have been squeezed back. Similarly, we have seen a sharp decline in the unemployment rate among older people. The proportion of unemployed among middle-aged or slightly older people who are well-established in Sweden has also decreased. On the other hand, we see how the problems for young people persist. We also know how the problems of foreign born people have increased when it comes to getting in. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish labour market is a combination of many things that can make it difficult to get in. Grants and compensations are relatively high in Sweden compared to other countries. Labour market regulations may not stand out as the hardest ones, but we still belong to those countries that have relatively tough regulations in this area. The wage structure is compressed in Sweden, and taxes on low incomes are among the highest in the world. There is, of course, no measure to be taken, Madam President, to change this. A combination of measures is needed. We have proposed a number of these in order to make it easier to enter the labour market with stronger driving forces to work. We want to take down the thresholds to get the first job in order to break the alienation that exists. I have a question for the Minister for Finance. Some 60 percent of young people who do not yet have a job have never had a job. So this is not about helping people back into work. I would like to know a little about how the Finance Minister views the other proposals. Education in all honor-- that's good. We can essentially agree on this; it goes without saying that it is necessary. But measures are also needed for those who have an education or for those who more than anything else just want a job. For example, we have proposed that career introduction positions can be used more widely, where there is no need for a collective agreement requirement. You can then much easier go into any workplace and get a career introduction and thus a way into the labour market. The Swedish labour market works well, Madam President, in the sense that, once they have entered, the vast majority will have a good wage development and an opportunity to learn and to improve their position. If I were the Minister for Finance, Madam President, I would therefore not be so afraid to lower the thresholds to jobs and to broaden them. I can fully agree with the Minister for Finance that it is important to invest in school, but one must also be able to do something for those for whom school is not a solution and who therefore need to have a place in the world of work. I therefore wonder, the Minister for Finance, whether the government can review the possibility of a broader career introduction where collective bargaining requirements are no longer necessary.
i-e51117834085aba8-245	Madam President, I would like It is strange that Niklas Wykman says that we want to invest in young people to receive education while he says no to the fantastic proposal we have for that very thing. The current government supported the former government in being able to use career introductions. Agreements were signed and agreements were reached with the social partners. We think it is a good idea, and we support it. Unfortunately, there have not been many job introductions, and I am sure that both we in the government and the opposition can do more advertising when we are out meeting different companies. On the other hand, I am extremely sceptical about not demanding collective agreements. Nor do I think that this is something that some of the parties who are to be involved in signing an agreement on professional introductions find particularly interesting. Collective agreements are an important part of the Swedish labour market. If a large part of the Swedish labour market does not have collective agreements, yes, then what Niklas Wykman likes to call reduced thresholds risks in practice mean lower wages. I do not think that is a good thing, and I believe that there is a great ideological difference in this particular respect between the Moderates and the Social Democrats. On the Government's action list within the 90-day guarantee, the trainee jobs are also available. In fact, yesterday the first person got a trainee job. Her name is Madelein Bjurbäck, which made her historic. Now I know what I want and have had the opportunity to work at the same time as I get to study. Get a better economy and be able to create a buffer for the future. "It's really nice that we've managed to get this in place so quickly." "It feels good that we finally have two new tools needed, trainee jobs and training contracts, to help young adults." ..................................................... At last, then, the government's policy is beginning to give its mark even in reality, even if there was a six-month delay. This girl is the first of a long line of young people to get their first job – just what Niklas Wykman thinks is important. I think it is important that all young people get a first job, and the trainee jobs will be such a way for many young people. In addition, we need, of course, in various ways to create opportunities for young people to enter the labour market.
i-e51117834085aba8-252	Madam President, I would like Congratulations on the job, maybe even the first job! All jobs are good, and all people who want and can work should also have a job to go to. It was, of course, also a happy circumstance that this happened just on the day of the budget bill's delivery. But a less fortunate circumstance this day was that even if a person has received a trainee job, what the Institute of Economics estimates will cost 20 000 youth jobs as well. It is clear that a job compared to 20 000 jobs lost for young people weighs lightly, and on the same day the government's own industrial chancellor notes that the Finance Minister's budget is not a job budget but, on the contrary, a budget in which taxes on labour are increased, which is detrimental to people's chances of getting into work. Madam President, I would like It is regrettable that the Minister for Finance is closing the door to a lot of young people's opportunities to work in a wide range of companies around Sweden. The government clings to the collective agreement requirement, although we know that six out of ten young people who are out of work have not even yet entered the labour market. However, the government does not want to turn all the stones around and turn to all companies in Sweden and ask what responsibility they can take, but the company must be approved by Magdalena Andersson or the trade union movement to be involved in contributing. At this point, I think there are many people in Sweden who want to open their hearts and help, both when it comes to young people and people who have come here. To then remain in a system where not everyone can contribute regularly, I think, is unfortunate, and I would have liked the Minister of Finance, in the light of what is happening in our environment and here in Sweden, with many young people not entering the labour market, to have thought of a more modern and flexible solution to this. Then more young people could get a job.
i-e51117834085aba8-256	Madam President, I would like I am not at all surprised that Niklas Wykman does not think it is important to have a collective agreement. Of course it is. If you do not think it is important to keep the labour market in order and that people who work should be able to have a wage to live on, then collective agreements are not something that is particularly important either. There is a deep ideological conflict between the social democracy and the right in terms of the perception of the functioning of the labour market and the possibility of having a wage that can be lived on. With the Government's 90-day guarantee, all young people will have the opportunity to get a job, education or internship within 90 days. To fund this, we are abolishing the youth discount for employers that has existed in the past. It is a discount that has been imposed by all the expert authorities, because it is very expensive and very inefficient. If you want to take responsibility for public finances, you need to dismantle measures that have been obviously expensive and ineffective. To take responsibility for the common resources, we need to work with more cost-effective and accurate methods, and that is exactly what the government does. It is a way of taking responsibility for public finances while taking responsibility for young people's ability to enter the labour market.
i-e51117834085aba8-259	Madam President, I would like Aron Modig has asked me why the government in its impact assessment chooses not to show the long-term impact on households and companies of the new model for annual enumeration of energy and CO2 taxes on fossil petrol and diesel fuels. Aron Modig also asks why the costs incurred by car-dependent households after 2016 are not accounted for like the costs for 2016 when taxes are further increased. Furthermore, Maria Malmer Stenergard has asked me both where the government draws the line of how expensive it is for people to be able to get to their jobs or pick up the children after football practice, and what happens if and when the price of crude oil rises sharply. As regards Maria Stenergards's question about what happens if and when the price of crude oil rises sharply, I would like to start by referring to earlier and closely similar interpellations from her party colleagues Jan Ericsson and Niklas Wykman. The impact assessment states that the conversion of the tax rates on petrol and diesel fuel from 2017 will lead to a further increase in the excise duty on petrol and diesel fuel by about 14 – 16 cents per litre including VAT. Furthermore, it is clear that the proposal will lead to annual increases in petrol and diesel fuels even after 2017 and that the increase will eventually be slightly higher per litre and year, as the cumulative effect will increase the annual increases over time. I would also like to stress that, after the last government's term of office, we see large deficits in state finances as well as unemployment that has persisted at high levels. Sweden currently has a higher youth unemployment rate than many comparable countries. We propose increased energy tax on fuels in order to afford important reforms such as measures to reduce unemployment and investment in rail and other infrastructure. A fossil-free vehicle fleet is a priority for the government, which is why it is also important to increase the regulatory impact of energy and CO2 taxes. We need to see clearly declining emission trends that are well aligned with the long-term ambitions of climate policy. Fuel taxes can create incentives for a more energy efficient development of transport by increasing the demand for more fuel-efficient cars and alternative means of transport. The level of petrol and diesel taxes is one of several factors that have an impact on the ability to reconcile everyday life and on the ability to reach the government's high climate ambitions. However, there is no reason at present to speculate on possible measures if the price of oil rises sharply.
i-e51117834085aba8-267	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Finance, for your answer. In the run-up to the elections last year, the Social Democrats were clear that they did not intend to increase the tax on petrol. Today, as we have all noted, the party is pursuing a different line. The budget bill, which was submitted to Parliament yesterday, proposes that the energy tax on fossil petrol and fossil diesel fuel should be increased by 48 and 53 cents per litre from next year onwards. Ironically, it's an even bigger raise than the one on the table when I turned in the interpellation at the end of July. To those amounts must also be added VAT if the buyer is a private person. All in all, the price at the pump next year will therefore be increased by 60 øre per litre of petrol and by 66 øre per litre of diesel. The Government also proposes that the energy and carbon tax rates for fossil fuels should be listed at a faster rate than today through an annual indexation from 2017. Thus, taxes will be increased further. The very sharp increases in taxes on petrol and diesel are worrying. They're hitting jobs and entrepreneurship. They're just as hard on ordinary people as they are on ordinary families. Industry that is affected is, of course, the haulage industry and also indirectly all the sectors that depend on road transport. In addition, all the people and families who are directly dependent on the car get tougher to cope with everyday life. Getting to work becomes more expensive, more expensive to drive children to practice and more expensive to visit grandparents. The tax increases are most severe against those living and working in rural areas. I was in Lycksele and Skellefteå the other week. If it was one of the government's tax increases that there were views on there, it was precisely the higher fuel tax rates. They effectively beat the opportunities to live and run businesses in sparsely populated areas. When the government sent out the tax proposals for a referral, it presented an analysis of the consequences that the government believes the increased taxes on petrol and diesel will bring. However, that impact assessment was thin and had, when it comes to the impact on households and businesses, in principle, completely apart from the long-term perspective. This means that the transparency of the government's tax proposal is significantly worse than it should be. This is why I have asked the Minister for Finance two questions about why the government in its impact assessment chooses not to demonstrate the long-term impact clearly on businesses and households. So the Minister of Finance has answered the two questions in two sentences, albeit long ones. I would like to ask a supplementary question: should I take it that the Minister for Finance is completely satisfied with how the government has reported in its impact assessment how the increases in fuel taxes are hitting companies and households?
i-e51117834085aba8-276	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Finance, for your answer. Before the last election, the Minister for Finance, who was then a political spokesperson for the Social Democrats, stated that driving a car in Sweden is expensive. It is, isn't it? Magdalena Andersson said in DN on 3 October 2013: And right now the price of petrol is very high. ..................................................... Although for some time we have seen low oil prices, we know that the price will continue to vary. The gas price was as late as July this year higher than when the Minister of Finance made his statement. The tax increase on petrol and diesel now being brought forward by the government will, according to a n yligt published report by S cat payers, mean that nearly 1 million households by car will have to pay an additional 5 500 onor in petrol tax between 2016 and 2018. As of 2017, the burden becomes heavier for each year with the extra indexation based on bnp that then enters into force. The amount of tax is thus growing every year, and VAT is also added to the tax. The effect is estimated to be that a price of 13 SEK per litre in five years rises to 15 SEK and 30 öre. In ten years the tax is increased by almost 50%. It is breathtaking expense that affects families and businesses. Madam President, I would like With this proposal, Sweden will top two more world tax tables. In 2017, we get the world's highest diesel tax, and in 2019 we get the world's highest petrol tax. The government believes that agriculture should be compensated for the increased costs, but how does it actually intend to deal with tax claims for individual households? For many people, especially outside the metropolitan regions, there is no real possibility of opting out of the car. How do you deal with tax cases for the haulage industry, for the taxi industry, for the bus industry and for aviation? I think a lot of people with me are wondering just that. It is against this background that I have asked the Minister for Finance where the border will actually go. How expensive is it for people to get to their jobs or simply get their everyday lives together in the future? What happens if and when the price of crude oil rises sharply? Madam President, I would like In his response to my interpellation, the Minister of Finance did not want to say what would happen if the price of crude oil were to rise sharply. She said there was no reason to speculate on possible measures if the price of oil were to rise sharply. However, the budget proposal submitted by the Minister of Finance to Parliament yesterday clearly states that even in a scenario of higher oil prices in the long term, tax increases can be justified in order to increase environmental governance and reduce climate emissions. The Minister of Finance says he does not want to speculate, but I would like to do so. I want to speculate a little about what a family can really do. You can invest in greener solutions, such as greener cars. It can be pretty expensive. Therefore, there have been environmental car premiums and reduced preferential values for just more environmentally friendly cars. But now it turns out in the budget bill that the government wants to lower the prices and raise the benefits even for really environmentally friendly cars. It is therefore clear that the government does not want to create financial incentives for people to switch to more environmentally friendly alternatives.
i-e51117834085aba8-288	Madam President, I would like Yesterday we were able to see the Minister of Finance go with the budget to Parliament. With regard to the aftermath of the presentation of the budget in this House, I cannot say that the Swedish people were cheering. I cannot say that the newspapers were particularly gracious about what is happening to Sweden. Madam President, I would like It is frustrating for those of us who are in opposition just to watch when it feels like the country is falling apart. In these cases, it is about the Social Democrats betraying two of their most important electoral promises to the Swedish people. One was not to touch the gas tax. The second was that the ROT deduction should not be reduced. Then we can also wonder how the discussions in the government have gone with the Green Party. We all know a little bit that the Green Party is not a supporter of fuel like gasoline. In fact, 60% of the price at pump tax is. In fact, I buy taxes instead of petrol. It's more treasure than I get in my mind. How can that be? Because we have a society where we don't account for all taxes. I cannot look at the receipt when I think about what is carbon tax, energy tax or VAT. The most absurd thing is that we then also have VAT on the tax. I therefore pay a turnover tax on the tax itself. The increase may seem low if it is 50 or 150 kroner a month per family. But, combined with all other tax increases, six out of ten individuals lose on government policy. Eight out of ten households will get worse with government policy. I know that the Minister for Finance has a fondness to say that the government does this because the government took over a Sweden with large budget deficits. Then we can think about what it would have been like if the Social Democrats had ruled during the eight years that the Alliance ruled – and navigated well in a difficult business cycle with financial crises. Yes, it would probably have looked even worse, because if you look at the budgets put forward by the Social Democrats in this House, you can see that only two people do not have higher expenditure increases than those of the Alliance. When it comes to the tax on petrol or the tax on labour, the Minister of Finance often says that she does not believe that it will work less simply to increase the tax. Actually, I don't think people are going to drive less just because the tax is raised. Rather, you simply have to cut back on other things. I am thinking mainly of those who live in rural areas and who do not have public transport to use. I also think of those who are not usually lifted up so often here in the archipelago: our archipelago population who may be completely dependent on having their own boat to get somewhere. In the archipelago there is not so good public transport. Madam President, I would like I am very concerned about where this country is going, and I would like an answer from the Minister for Finance on how she is arguing about raising taxes and charges for ordinary people.
i-e51117834085aba8-297	Madam President, I would like We took over government power a year ago in a situation where we had running budget deficits, high unemployment, high long-term unemployment, high youth unemployment and school outcomes that fell faster than in any other country. In such a situation, the government needs to take responsibility. We need a firm grip on public finances in order to stop the runaway budget deficits that we inherited. We need to find funding for more young people and the long-term unemployed to get jobs and to reverse school developments. To do this, the government has had to raise some taxes, and the petrol tax is one of them. It has not been an easy decision to make, but it has been necessary. One point of petrol and diesel tax increases is that they also increase environmental governance. Sweden is quite far from achieving the emission targets set by the Swedish Parliament, this House. In order to increase the chances of achieving those goals, we also need to increase environmental governance. Here I have a question for both interpellants: what proposals do the Christian Democrats and the Moderates have for us to be able to reduce emissions, now that we are moving towards this particular increase? Mr Aron asks whether I am satisfied with the impact assessment and what impact assessment we have. I have explained that impact assessment. One can certainly have comments on it, but I have explained the impact assessment that we have carried out in this referral. Maria Malmer Stenergard asks if the families who find it difficult to cope with the tax increase suffer that you do not get a discount when buying a new car. I do not think that the families that have problems with the economy due to the increase in petrol taxation are the same families that could afford to buy a new electric car or a new charging hybrid. It's a pretty big expense to buy a new car, and it's the same with a new preferential car. It should reasonably be different families. Families who can afford to buy, for example, a Tesla or another electric car or a charging hybrid, families who buy new cars, usually have a little greater margins than families who have difficulties with the cost increase that can occur in order to increase the petrol tax part. The government also uses resources to invest in rural areas. We invest in this budget in increased road maintenance, increased rail maintenance and increased public transport in sparsely populated areas. We also increase support for services in sparsely populated areas and for broadband in sparsely populated areas. In addition, we are expanding the regional colleges that are important for the growth of rural areas.
i-e51117834085aba8-305	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Finance, for the straight answer! At the same time, I would like to point out that there are clearly differences of opinion on this issue. I think it is important that when a government puts forward reform proposals that can be expected to have an impact on employment, on the conditions for running businesses, on household finances and the like, it also clearly sets out the effects that the current proposals can bring – even if the proposals are of a negative nature. Over the past few weeks, the government has been good at highlighting the various projects and initiatives on which resources are put in the budget bill. The Minister of Finance is taking the opportunity to do so in this interpellation debate as well. What the government has been significantly worse at since it took office a year ago is to account for the consequences that the government may not see as the most desirable. We see that on this issue. The indexed increases in fuel taxes will have a major impact on companies and households, even after 2016, but this is not clearly reported in the government document. We saw it yesterday when the budget bill was presented. The government seems to have picked up a table showing that as many as eight out of ten households are experiencing a deterioration in the economy with government policy. Apparently it was headlines that the government didn't want to see. We also know that, for example, in its annual report, the Council of Finance Ministers criticised the government for not showing how the increased unemployment rates have a negative impact on employment. The Council notes that it is unfortunate that the government has chosen not to disclose any employment effects of the increase. A prerequisite for a constructive discussion on the direction of economic policy is that the government presents different conflicts of objectives and bends political balances. ..................................................... The Swedish Employment Service has also called for impact assessments of how different tax increases affect the development of the labour market in consultation with the government's tax changes. I note that the Minister of Finance seems to be satisfied with the situation, but at the same time I want to be clear that from my horizon and apparently many of the neutral actors who are relevant to listen to this issue, I call for more transparency and transparency in government policy.
i-e51117834085aba8-314	Madam President, I would like After all, I speculated in my previous speech that one might perhaps be able to switch to a more environmentally friendly vehicle when it becomes more expensive with petrol and diesel. But now it is clear that the government is reducing the financial incentives to switch to more environmentally friendly alternatives. The Minister of Finance is clear that she does not think it has any effect on anyone other than those who are potential buyers of a Tesla. Personally, I think there are many other varieties of more environmentally friendly cars. I believe that technological development is something we really need to invest in in order to tackle environmental problems. There, the Minister for Finance has the answer to the question she put to me. It is sad that the government chooses to counteract this particular development. I thought I'd keep speculating. I was going to speculate on whether, as a family, you could choose simply to drive less if you want to reduce your costs. I thought I'd start from myself. I am not one of those who live centrally in the big city, where this may be a little easier. I live in Åhus, which is about a mile from Kristianstad. Before I was in Parliament, I commuted to work in Kristianstad. So does my husband. It is a route that has good public transport, I would say, with many buses. Say that we would choose to set the car and instead leave the children at school and preschool by bus and then take the bus to Kristianstad. I have looked at timetables and counted a little and concluded that it takes more than an hour extra for me to get to work, one-way travel, compared to driving a car. So that means, with a little bit of simple mathematics, a little over two hours extra a day. That is ten hours a week, which is 25 percent of a full - time service that I would have to go down in time to transport me and my children by bus. I may think that this does not seem to be a very good use of resources. In fact, I think the Minister for Finance is counting coldly on us not to go down in time. We will continue driving to and from work, school and preschool. The people who drive today make it very small for fun or for pure laziness. They do it to get their everyday lives together, and they will not be able to reduce their driving significantly. Instead, when costs increase, they will reduce either their consumption or their savings. None of this is good for the economy as a whole. And then there are the companies. Margins are even smaller, and fewer companies will be able to grow. Fewer companies will be able to start up and fewer companies will be able to survive. I think it is reasonable, given this decision, to propose compensation for agriculture and forestry as a result of the increase in diesel taxes. In that case, the government refers to the competitive situation at risk. What about the trucking business? There, too, competition is fierce. The government does not compensate the riders but proposes, among other things in the budget bill, that they change their driving behaviour. I understand that the government, as the Minister for Finance mentioned here, intends to invest in rail and that it hopes that more transport will be able to go on rail in the long term, and that is a good thing. But that doesn't solve the situation for haulage companies. Their increased costs arise here and now, while this part of the government's solution is quite advanced. That is why I would like to ask the Minister for Finance how she views developments in the sectors that are not compensated in the budget and how the Minister for Finance sees consumption and savings going down when people are forced to pay more taxes on their driving.
i-e51117834085aba8-325	Madam President, I would like It feels great to be back after the summer vacation, I have to say – yes, because we are working for freedom, then. The Social Democrats always try to give a picture of a bourgeois government that cannot deal with the economy, which is unfair, historyless and completely wrong. Last time I debated with the Minister for Finance in this House – I think it was the penultimate part-session before the summer leave – I asked her if she had read Kjell-Kjell-Olof Feldt and seen what he thought was the cause of the crisis we had in the 1990s. Much was due to high inflation and devaluations. Then you may remember Astrid Lindgren, who wrote about Pom peripossa who paid more than 100 percent in tax. It was absolutely necessary to do something about Swedish society. That's why I'm standing here again talking about treasure. All taxes on things – taxes on labour, increased petrol taxes, increased tax on nuclear energy, i.e. impact taxes, and so on – almost lose the desire to go to work. That's why we're talking about treasure. The gas tax hits the hardest out in the countryside and in the archipelago region. I think it is very foolish to do this, and I think that the Minister for Finance should reconsider this issue.
i-e51117834085aba8-329	Madam President, I would like The reason I am going up in this debate is that the haulage industry is one of the most competitive industries we have in the country, and we are going down on our knees because of illegal activity. There are hauliers who drive with diesel that they bring from their home country because the diesel is so expensive here in Sweden, where we have Europe's most expensive diesel. There are those who drive with illegal diesel or stolen diesel in order to compete with the legal haulage industry here in Sweden. In this situation, the government chooses to levy an additional tax on this industry of more than 50 øre per litre of diesel. What does this mean for a skier and truck owner? If the truck goes on a regular shift, it drives about 10,000 miles per year. It spends an average of three litres per mile. That is, about 30 cubic metres of diesel are used to keep it going. For the landowner, this means that he spends 15 000 SEK per year in additional taxes. If the truck moves on double shifts or two shifts, which is not uncommon, it is nearly $5,000 a year. The farm owner may have three or four trucks, which means that he will receive more than $100,000 in additional taxes because of what may seem to be a small increase of 50 øre per litre. The industry is already under complete pressure in the boot and is fighting against illegal traffic. Madam President, I would like Rural anti-harvest and anti-harvest policies are a serious threat to our countryside. We are forcing our young people to move from the countryside to the cities in order to reduce the cost of driving to and from their jobs. When young people have been forced out of the countryside, they are investing in subsidizing new housing in our big cities. This is not a rural policy. It moves our young people from the countryside to the big cities. It moves our haulage from legal haulage companies in Sweden to illegal haulage companies that use different ways to gain cheaper diesel and tax it abroad. Why don't you compensate for the haulage industry? Does the Minister think that the haulage industry can still carry these 20 000 – 30 000 SEK extra per truck in Sweden, despite being exposed to a very tough competition from illegal foreign transport? Why isn't the haulage industry compensated?
i-e51117834085aba8-334	Madam President, I would like I did not manage to hear that Aron Modig answered my question: What proposals do the Christian Democrats have to reduce emissions so that Sweden can reach the emission targets set by the Swedish Parliament? If I interpret Maria Malmer Stenergard correctly, she agrees that the Moderates' proposal is to retain the environmental car bonus for charging hybrids at the same level as before. I think she is alone in Sweden to believe that this – that you let the environmental car bonus for charging hybrids be as high as for electric cars – will solve the problems alone. I wonder if the Moderates have any further suggestions to solve the problem that we do not seem to be able to achieve the goal that Parliament has set itself. Sten Bergheden raises a very important issue, namely the competitiveness of the haulage industry and its situation at all. This is a worrying situation for Swedish haulage industry, regardless of the tax increase proposed by the government. It is therefore important that we can increase control over the haulage industry. The government has made a number of proposals in this area, including as regards classification. Here the government will continue to work. It is important that there is order in the haulage industry and that Swedish companies should not suffer from os j yst competition or illegal competition. One aspect of increasing control over the haulage industry is the proposal on road tolls. With the transponder system, there will be increased opportunities for surveillance of the haulage industry. It provides better opportunities for control over that sector.
i-e51117834085aba8-339	Madam President, I would like Thank you again, Minister of Finance, for your answer. The Minister of Finance is trying to make it sound like fuel and driving are not taxed today. I would think that there are quite few people out in the country who agree with that. As I have put forward in this debate, it is not reasonable that the government should only openly report one side of the policy pursued. Of course, it is also necessary to explain the more negative consequences of its policies. The government invests in the budget on some urgent projects. School investments and increased resources for railway maintenance are such examples. However, massive tax increases are also being made. There will be higher taxes for those who drive cars, for the elderly who work, for many with higher education who work and for those who donate money to non-profit organizations. RUT and ROT deductions are deteriorating. One consequence of the tax increases is that the government receives money that it can spend on reforms. It's the government's ability to account. But tax increases also hit jobs, entrepreneurship and ordinary people's personal finances. Some of them hit people living in cities. Others strike directly at those who live in sparsely populated areas. In any case, transparency and transparency should always be emphasised. Review and scrutiny should always be welcomed. I hope, Madam President, for the sake of the citizens, if nothing else, that the government will be better at presenting economic policy impact assessments in the future.
i-e51117834085aba8-345	Madam President, I would like Of course, the Minister of Finance realizes that people will not be able to afford to stop fuelling their cars in time. The increase is a mere cash cow for the state, i.e. that the state will collect more money from families and companies, namely 3.9 billion, which it will then distribute to us at its own discretion and after deduction of transaction costs. But you get lucky if you're going to take part of that cake. Eight out of ten households go back with government policy. Madam President, I would like This proposal is not part of a job agenda. Jobs and entrepreneurship will be severely affected, although the Minister for Finance seems to think that the tax increase does not really matter. Little skaters have contacted me and asked me to ask the finance minister how they can survive. They are already under extreme pressure from international competition. The answer to the little rider's question is in the budget bill, which the Minister of Finance presented yesterday. I quote: a lot of damage to the haulage industry depends on the extent to which they lose market share vis-à-vis foreign hauliers. However, it is estimated that there is some potential for efficiency improvements in the transport sector through more fuel-efficient vehicles, more efficient engine technology and a change in driving behaviour. ..................................................... In fact, I believe that many hard-working entrepreneurs who turn around and turn around to get plus and minus to join forces are experiencing the government's proposal for a solution that is, to say the least, de facto. I think that perhaps the government's reasoning can be reversed. I believe that there is some potential for efficiency improvements in public activities and changes in government behaviour.
i-e51117834085aba8-349	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer so far. It's just that this policy is not really connected. The Minister referred to the need to increase checks on the road. With the new transponders and the new road wear charge, it has been proposed to introduce additional taxes of just over SEK 4 billion for the haulage industry. It should then be distributed over different systems. What is interesting is that your policy has produced results. Employers' contributions are increased, which means that the police have increased costs. This means that you have to remove about 100 – 150 police officers in Sweden to pass the previous budget. The second part is that we have agreed here in Parliament that we want alcoboms set up. We still do not have a single alcobom in this country that matches and controls. In addition, the traffic police have been destroyed. They've been shared out in the police areas. This means that the checks to be carried out on the road are now completely eliminated. It will not happen in reality. This means that it has fully opened up for more trucks to be able to come here and drive their own diesel from Germany, drive with illegal diesel from Russia and use stolen diesel from Swedish haulage companies. This is totally untenable. For every flagged haulage industry or truck in this country, we lose hundreds of thousands of dollars in tax revenue. This policy really shoots itself in the foot. Minister! Will these controls increase on our roads with this policy?
i-e51117834085aba8-354	Madam President, I would like Aron Modig talks about the importance of openness and transparency. However, it does not seem to apply to Aron Modig himself, as he refuses to answer the question of what proposals the Christian Democrats have for us to reach the climate targets. Maria Malmer Stenergard wonders who is allowed to take part in the government's budget. She doesn't seem to believe that many people get a share of the government's budget. But I can list a few. It is about all the children who go to school and who get to take part in more teachers in the school colan and more staff at friti s. It is about all the children who attend preschool and who get access to more staff in preschool. It is about all young people who do not have a job and who become part of the 90-day guarantee and become guaranteed jobs, education or traineeships within 90 days. It's about all the older people who get more staff in the care of the elderly. It is about all our pensioners who receive reduced taxes and all single parents who receive an increase in maintenance payments. The sports movement is getting a boost. The disability movement is receiving a supplement. The free-air movement is receiving a supplement. Civil society, which supports those who are now coming to Sweden, receives an addition. All municipalities receiving new arrivals receive a supplement. All municipalities that have children seeking asylum in their schools can take part in the budget. All the tax increases and savings made by the government go back into society so that we will build Sweden strongly. But it is clear that there is a difference between the previous government, which borrowed money and then used it to lower the tax. This policy isn't exactly in your wallet. But what does a tax cut in your wallet do when the result is that your child does not receive the support it needs at school? The Moderates and the Social Democrats have deeply different ideologies as to how they view the needs of society. Finally, I would just like to point out that the debate we have had is about an increase in the cost of an average motorist of 50 – 60 SEK per month.
i-e51117834085aba8-359	Madam President, I would like Rickard Nordin has asked me, on the one hand, which instruments apply from 1 January 2016, and, on the other hand, when I expect a reply from the Commission on the issue of extending state aid approval for the reduction in the tax burden on biofuels. On 3 February 2015, the Government applied to the Commission for the extension of State aid authorisations for the biofuels tax exemption. The applications are being prepared by the Commission. During the spring and summer, we have had continuous discussions with the Commission in order to get positive decisions as soon as possible. The government is now intensifying its dialogue with the Commission, but ultimately it is the Commission that decides when they make their decision. The European Commission has decided on new guidelines on State aid for environmental protection and energy. In order to be able to obtain an extension of state aid approvals for the exemption of biofuels, the Swedish rules must comply with the requirements of the guidelines. For this reason, a proposal is currently being referred to, which means that tax relief is conditional on the existence of an installation notification. The installation statement shall demonstrate that the food-based biofuels exempt from tax are not produced in installations put into service after 31 December 2013 or are fully depreciated. This condition is necessary in order to obtain extended state aid approvals for the period after 31 December 2015. The Government's objective is to have rules in place as soon as possible during its term of office that provide long-term sustainable and stable conditions for biofuels. This means that proposals will be submitted by 2017 and new rules will enter into force by 2018. In the long term, the Government considers it essential to work together at EU level to find common solutions enabling all Member States to take the necessary steps to achieve the common energy and climate goals by making fossil fuel choices profitable. An important issue in this work is a cost-effective but also administratively easier use of environmental taxes to help meet the EU's energy and climate objectives. The Government's objective is a long-term solution that allows Sweden to have instruments that are stable over time and provide a stable contribution to the Treasury while driving the development towards a fossil-free vehicle fleet, including through a gradual increase in the share of biofuels.
i-e51117834085aba8-363	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Rarely has an answer been so clear, I think. There is clarification as to how poorly managed it is and how ignorant the government views the climate challenge in the transport sector. Magdalena Andersson concluded by saying that Sweden should have instruments that are stable over time and provide a stable contribution to the Treasury. It was more important than tackling the climate challenge. Money for the Treasury comes before fossil-free transport in the order of priority. The climate problem will have to wait. We need money for our grant applications. That's the message from the Minister of Finance. On the other hand, it is also clear in the budget presented by the government. Taxes on renewable fuels are raised by 370 million, but only small crumbs are returned. Magdalena Andersson also says she wants a long-term perspective. How does it rhyme with the fact that it is only three months left before the current rules expire? We still do not know which rules apply from 1 January. Why is it only now intensifying its work with the Commission? This should have been done right from the start if you want some form of long-termness in this discussion. Magdalena Andersson also seems to have missed the consultation period for this proposal which is now being presented. It's already gone out. It went out yesterday. In record short time, the government has tried to sneak through a proposal that risks killing all new investments in this industry, because only old and depreciated facilities are supported. How is this justified for SCA, Rottneros, Värmland metanol, Jordberga and everyone else who wants to invest or has just done so? How can they build a business that will deliver according to the long-term rules that the government claims to demand? The message given by Magdalena Andersson about the long-term perspective is also deceptive. The aim is to introduce stable rules of play in 2018 only. But what will the government do in 2017? The tax exemption applied for only applies in 2016. Shall we go through this process again? The whole of 2017 risks becoming a brake block, a lost year for the climate and for biofuels. The transport sector is perhaps the most important sector we have to change. Sweden can take the lead and create opportunities for others in the world to change as well, and we can also have a fantastic export industry where we can pioneer – where we are already pioneers. We are great at biofuels, but with this government we risk backing the climate targets we have. We risk billions of tax charges from the turn of the year if the government fails to resolve these problems with the Commission. It is not good enough to mumble anything about us having stable rules of the game in 2018, because it is not possible to build an investment calculation on things that may happen in a couple of years and you do not know what happens from 1 January. This means that it is not possible to deal with proposals that deal with new and old plants in a timely manner. It's neither stable nor fair. Then why has the government not taken firm, Magdalena Andersson, on the work done during the Alliance's time and during the FFF investigation, which was also the reason why they did not want to include the transport side in the Energy Commission? They said: We have all the answers already and are just going to do this. Yet I have not seen much more than 50 million electric buses from this government. It must be possible to act faster than this. My questions will be: What rules will apply from 1 January 2016? Why is nothing more happening to the Commission, and why has it been so urgent at the end to start special treatment plants that could have been told much sooner than this if one had ambitions to be long-term and fair in the rules of the game?
i-e51117834085aba8-373	Madam President, I would like I think Rickard Nordin would benefit from thinking a little bit about what happened during the time his party was in the government. This is a problem that this government has inherited from the previous government, and it is a problem that we have had for years. The fact that the European Commission is late in communicating to the industry, I am the first to regret, but that is nothing new. The truth is that when Rickard Nordin's party leader Annie Lööf was a minister of industry, they were often very late out, and several times the industry was not even told until the old approval had expired. That is the story, and perhaps Rickard Nordin would benefit from reminding himself of it before he takes so much from the Parliament's pulpit. The previous government and this government have to deal with EU rules. If we violate the EU's state aid rules, it does not affect the government, but it affects individual companies. That is why it is so important that we try to stick to the rules that exist. There are also the new rules from the Commission for which facilities can benefit from this in the context of state aid approval. Does Rickard Nordin mean that the Swedish government and Sweden would ignore it and these companies would thus risk being repayable? It can be extremely expensive for those companies. What the government is doing is trying to operate within the rules and systems that exist within the EU so that no company will suffer from being liable for repayment. We are working extremely intensively towards the Commission for an extension of state aid approval, and while this state aid approval is under way, we want to be able to create a long-term system. But this is a problem that the previous government did not solve and which we intend to solve. I think that Rickard Nordin should reflect on this when choosing the tone of the debate.
i-e51117834085aba8-377	Madam President, I would like The Alliance government had a number of proposals, for example, on the obligation of a quota, on which the Commission had to back up. That is quite correct, but there was also work in progress that this government should have been able to pick up. It is not just a matter of obligation, it is a question of so many more proposals that this government is obviously not interested in putting forward. The Center Party has proposed an environmental truck premium. We also propose to review a regulatory package for municipalities in terms of environmental car parking, environmental zones, local congestion taxes, charging poles, bonus-malus systems, energy declarations on cars and much more. But nothing comes from this government. Let us turn the question around. What's Plan B? What does Magdalena Andersson intend to do if the EU does not provide a response or if a negative response is received from the EU? Are we going to pay full tax on biofuels from the turn of the year? How do you plan to deal with the question? I am convinced that with an alliance government we would have had this obligation in place. We had taken it up from the FFF investigation and made sure that it was in line with existing EU rules. So what's Plan B? We are talking about billions in tax increases that can allow us to say thank you and hello to the Swedish biofuels initiative. Magdalena Andersson's government, whether you want it or not, will be remembered as the government that lowered the biofuels and managed to go backwards in relation to the targets, because what Magdalena Andersson forgets to say is that we have actually succeeded with an incredible number of the goals that we had. We have moved forward and are the best in the class in Europe. With the EU's way of counting, we have over 18% renewable fuels in the vehicle fleet. That is more than the 10% we set ourselves as targets by 2020. There, the Center Party also wants to move forward with the goal and raise it to 30 percent, because we are convinced that with our solutions it is quite possible. Stefan Löfven said in the government declaration that you want a fossil-free vehicle fleet. When, Magdalena Andersson? When are you planning on fulfilling this? It's easy to say, but it'll be hard if you don't have any suggestions on how to do this. I did not hear anything about this in the budget or anywhere else with regard to heavy transport or how to resolve it reasonably for passenger cars. When are the targets to be met? It is easy to come up with goals if they are not concretised and there are no proposals to achieve them. So what's Plan B? Does the Minister of Finance have a plan B, and how are you going to meet the objectives that have been said to be achieved?
i-e51117834085aba8-383	Madam President, I would like When Rickard Nordin says that he is sure that there had already been a reply with the Alliance Government, I would like to remind you that, several times during the time of the Alliance Government, the industry was not informed if there was a new state aid approval before the old approval had expired. The previous government track record is therefore not that the industry was told in good time. We do not know yet that this year would have been successful, but not all years have been successful. We are now working intensively towards the Commission to get this state aid approval through. In addition, we are working extremely intensively at the Ministry of Finance to develop a new system that is compatible with EU rules. We are also looking at quota car systems. In addition, a bonus – malus investigation is underway and will be added to enable us to get a bonus – malus system. In the meantime, in the coming years, we will replenish the environmental car premium and extend the reduction of the benefit values for environmental cars to allow that system to remain in place before the bonus – the Malus system is in place. In addition, we are making special support for electric buses that will be interesting. The government is working in several other areas. Among other things, we have greatly increased the support for railway maintenance both in the previous budget and in this budget. We also support in this budget a special effort on public transport in sparsely populated areas.
i-e51117834085aba8-386	Madam President, I would like I note that the Government is not answering my question. What's Plan B? Is there a plan B on the taxation of biofuels? There's three months left. What is Plan B if this proposal is not passed? Plan B cannot be that we should have increased railway efforts, because the railways do not go everywhere in this rather elongated country. It would be terribly expensive if we were to draw railways everywhere. I still want to know what's Plan B? As far as preferential cars are concerned, there is a clear deterioration in the scope for deduction. In the case of the super-environmental car premium, it is halved in the case of the charging hybrids. It is therefore not an increase in aid but rather a deterioration in aid that is being put forward. This does not lead to a faster conversion to a fossil-independent or fossil-free vehicle fleet. It will go slower than before. So I still want to know what Plan B is. Moreover, I wonder what the government is doing to change the rules that exist within the EU. This is where we have to start taking the fight. There are quite a few things going out already in 2020. State aid rules will then expire. This also applies to the Renewables Directive and the Fuel Quality Directive. What is the government doing to push ahead with these negotiations? That is what sets the framework for the system that we are now going to have in the long term. If the government intends to introduce something in 2018 and there will be new rules already in 2020, what does the government do to ensure that those rules are as good as possible? I'm rather curious about that. Again, what's Plan B? Is there any such thing at all, or is it going to add billions of additional taxes on biofuels? Then it is not very much about what the Alliance Government did or did not do. This is concrete. This is it. And this is Magdalena Andersson's responsibility. I also wonder what will be done to change the state aid rules and other rules that exist to make this better, so that we can get it even better and push for further in Europe. That's the fight we have to start taking. Then you must also dare to resist and not just be the best in the class all the time. You also have to look at how you can go around the rules. Then the Ministry of Finance and Magdalena Andersson have a huge responsibility.
i-e51117834085aba8-394	Madam President, I would like Like the Alliance Government, we are working very intensively to obtain extended state aid approval for the rules we have today. We are working extremely intensively on that track, just as the previous government did. Sometimes it takes a little time. It did for the Alliance government. It has done so for this government, too. In addition, we are working to get a long-term system within the state aid rules that we have. But it should also be a long-term sustainable system. The previous alliance government failed to create a system that is sustainable in the long term within the state aid rules that we have. That is why we have the problem of repeated state aid approvals year after year. That is why we are trying to create long-term conditions for the industry. If Rickard Nordin is dissatisfied with some of the new EU rules, I would remind you that they were introduced during the time that the Alliance Government represented Sweden in the EU.
i-e51117834085aba8-398	Mr President, I would like to Niklas Wykman has asked Magdalena Andersson why she did not choose to refer to early retirements in the early 2000s instead of developments in the 1990s as a bad example of how early retirements were used as a means of refining unemployment statistics. The interpellation has been handed over to me. The reason why the 1990s were used as an example was that during this period there was the possibility in the legislation to grant early retirement for labour market reasons. Early retirement could then be granted to persons aged 60 to 64, provided that they have been unemployed for one to two years. This possibility was limited in 1991 and was completely abolished in 1997. Since 1997, the decision to grant early retirement is based solely on medical reasons. Since early retirement for labour market reasons was abolished in 1997, developments in the 21st century had other reasons. Instead, the increase in the number of early retirements in the 2000s, or the number of sickness and activity benefits that are the correct term since 2003, was linked to the increase in sick leave and, in particular, to the large number of long illness cases. The government has set itself the main task of permanently reducing unemployment and increasing employment during its term of office. The goal is for Sweden to have the lowest unemployment rate in the EU by 2020. This should be done by increasing the number of people working and the number of hours worked in the economy. For the sake of long-term growth, it is essential that all society's resources are used as efficiently as possible. Sweden cannot afford to leave people with work capacity outside the labour market. Sickness and activity benefits can therefore only be provided to those who have a permanent disability and who are unlikely to be able to work full-time due to illness, injury or disability. One of the government's biggest challenges is to break the current increase in sick leave. As mentioned earlier, this should not be at the cost of an increase in the number of sick benefits.
i-e51117834085aba8-402	Mr President, I would like to The issue of exclusion and early retirement is extremely topical. Yesterday, the Government presented its budget which did not contain any measures to control the very large increases in costs in the various compensation systems. It has become known that these measures will be presented in separate order – tomorrow, if I understand correctly. However, it is disturbing that the government believes that these developments can be addressed without the kind of measures that should be contained within the framework of a state budget. When I hear the Minister for Social Security here, I can't help but think she's doing a proper rewrite of reality. The Minister for Social Security said that these early retirements were abolished after 1997, so there were no such ones after that year. The truth is that this is one of the Social Democrats' greatest atrocities against Sweden, that the alienation was allowed to blow up to this high level in the 21st century, even though the economy went well. The Minister of Social Security may not know – but she should know – that every tenth person in the labour force was retired early in 2006 – one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, retired early and again who were part of the entire labour force. This was, of course, the result of the creation of a system in which it was not profitable to work and where there were no ways back into the labour market. Contrary to what the Minister for Social Security said, it chose to automatically retire large parts of the labour force. The Secretary of Social Security says this didn't happen. This is what it said on 10 May 2005 in one of our major newspapers: Administrators at Försäkringskassan are paid extra if they early retire a person who is on sick leave, even though it is not medically justified. We can receive up to SEK 1,500 in bonuses for each disability pensioner, says one case officer. The existence of this system was subsequently confirmed by the then Director General Curt Malmborg. The description given by the Minister for Social Security is therefore not at all in line with reality. Every 10 persons in the labour force were retired early. Early retirement was used even though there were no medical reasons. You even got a bonus of up to SEK 1,500 if you retire early. It was called overtime, but it was a covert bonus, and that was the case confirmed by the Social Insurance Agency itself. When you don't know your story, it's very difficult to navigate into the future. It is therefore worrying that a government is now raising taxes on labour, which is cutting down on the drive to work, which is closing the way into the labour market, which is allowing the costs of the systems to run away, which is removing control posts in the systems and is again in danger of creating a situation similar to that we had in the early 2000s when exclusion took hold at very high levels.
i-e51117834085aba8-408	Mr President, I would like to As I said, I think we should be very careful with the facts. Niklas Wykman, those were the facts I presented. After 1997, there was no legal possibility of pre-retirement on the basis of labour market grounds. Then there may have been, but it was not possible in terms of legislation. On the other hand, we had a situation at the end of the 1990s and at the beginning of the 2000s with very high sickness rates, among other things as a result of the financial crisis and the major changes in the public sector in Sweden. It was then handled in a somewhat unfortunate way by introducing a halving target which in itself had a very good effect, while setting the correlation factor linked to the sickness benefits somewhat too high. This enabled the Social Insurance Agency, within the framework of its mandate, to grant early retirement more than we might have liked today. I think I have the facts and the history, Niklas Wykman, given that I myself worked on these issues just during this period of time. Let us now stick to today's situation. Between 2010 and 2014 – if we are to keep track of history – we actually had a bourgeois government in this country with a social security minister named Ulf Kristersson. I understood that he, too, had some problems with his memory yesterday. It can therefore be a good thing that I am clear about that part of the story. Sickness rates rose by 50 per cent in 2010–2014, while the policies pursued succeeded in securing 100 000 people in health insurance, but not to work but to poverty or to return to health insurance. When it comes to initiatives that this government has or has not made with regard to ill-health, this has been on the government's agenda from day one of the very reasons that I outlined. I can tell Niklas Wykman that I started talks with the social partners on these issues in the autumn of last year. We have also had this during the spring. Last spring, the Government invested SEK 100 million in strengthening the Swedish Work Environment Agency and investing funds for research into women's work environment, because it is women who get sick leave. In addition, we are now investing money in mental illness among young and young adults, because it is increasing. That's where we spend 280 million a year. We announce in the budget – we did so only yesterday, if one is to be really well counted – 250 million annually in reinforcement to the Swedish Social Insurance Agency so that they will manage their mission with the early trials at the early deadlines. It is not really with the truth consistent, Niklas Wykman, to paint a picture of the government as paralysed on these issues and that the government does not know the history. I honestly wonder who's standing here trying to distort the story. These are serious and serious problems we have. It is serious for the individuals affected, it is serious for Sweden's companies and it is serious for the national economy. I would like the opposition to step forward and have serious talks on these issues rather than windmilling with untruths.
i-e51117834085aba8-417	Mr President, I would like to These are strong words from the Minister for Social Security, a common sign when you are under pressure from facts. The interpellation response states that, since 1997, the decision to grant early retirement is based solely on medical reasons. The fact that it was not then clearly makes it superfluous to talk about what it was like in reality. The Minister for Social Security should be able to understand that it is better to talk about reality as it actually was than to talk about what it should have been like. The truth is that when the Social Democrats ruled during the 21st century, massive early retirements took place. Every tenth person in the labour force was retired early when the Social Democrats gave up government power in 2006. Some conclusions should have been drawn. The job tax deduction, tighter health insurance checkpoints, the limitation of the unemployment fund, the new bridges that were built into the labour market – all of which had an effect. Employment increased. Outside was pushed back. People came back into the labour market and into work capacity. Every one of the reforms that the Alliance pushed through protested against the Social Democrats, not just a little but loudly. The Minister for Social Security is now reporting on new costs and expenditure, and I have no doubt about this at all. The problem is not, Mr President, that these systems cost a lot. The problem is, they're too expensive. There will be more people in them, the costs will increase, the periods of sick leave will be longer. In the desire to reach the unemployment target, the government can choose to hide, forget and judge people again, just as it did in the 21st century and just as the people I referred to from the Social Insurance Office testified to. We will see what further action is being taken in this area. It is clear that sick leave is now increasing. The Minister of Social Security chooses not to give the whole picture in classical manners. In 2006 - 2010, what happened in this area? I'm sure the Minister of Social Security will be able to account for that. Then came an economic crisis, and it is not unknown what happens then to labour markets and to people. There was loud opposition from the Social Democrats to the austerity that was done in the systems. The 2010 election campaign was marked by acidic attacks on the government because it tried to hold back the development of these systems. The Social Democrats succeeded in some of what they wanted, namely to drive up volumes. It was a conscious policy to shoot hard at the limitations that existed for the systems to be verifiable. Then there was a change, and now we are standing there again. The costs will increase significantly over the years ahead. We have not yet seen any action against it. The Minister for Social Security needs to know what it means when one in ten people in the labour force are retired early, what it does for a country's economy, the ability to create jobs and, of course, also to finance welfare activities. Know the story, do better for the future!
i-e51117834085aba8-425	Mr President, I would like to It is, as I said, important to keep track of history, but I think it is also important to try to listen to each other. I believe and hope, Niklas Wykman, that you listened to me when I listed the measures that the government has already taken and that will have an effect on health rates. We intend to come up with further reforms and efforts tomorrow, which I hope we can have a serious and good dialogue on. As I said when I finished my last speech, sick leave is a tragedy for the individual, it is costly for the company that is affected and it is costly for the economy as a whole. Just because we have people who are sick and come into our health insurance, they do not, Niklas Wykman, by definition healthy because they are insured, as the loud voices in the 2010 election campaign that you referred to clearly expressed. We had cancer patients who got out of health insurance when they needed support. It was one of the debates that took place in the 2010 election movement, and this led to some adjustments being made. Now you stand here and say that it was somehow the Social Democratic opposition that forced the government to make these changes. I really don't think that's taking responsibility. Yes, we think that a welfare country like Sweden should have, and can manage, a health insurance that can both provide people with security in case of illness and be effective enough to support people early in case of illness. This is when you have the chance to really make sure that people have the opportunity to get back into the labour market. The probability of people coming back is radically decreasing already 70 days into a case of illness. It is therefore important to focus on the early interventions and to correct the shortcomings we see there. I think we in Sweden can afford that. We can afford a humane, decent health insurance that supports Swedish citizens when they most need it. At the same time, health insurance, like all other systems, needs to evolve as the labour market develops and changes and as people's health patterns change. A good example of this is that we in Sweden now have mental ill health as the main cause of our sick leave. A few decades ago we had a completely different picture. This means that the systems, including health care, that support people back into the labour market need to look different. That is what we need to talk about and focus on. These are not simple problems, and complex problems rarely have simple solutions. It takes a serious political discussion. I think that, if I am to be honest, this issue and the Swedish citizens who are now affected by sick leave deserve. I would like us to be able to land there instead of standing and using this particular issue as a bat in the political debate.
i-e51117834085aba8-432	Mr President, I would like to Of course, some of me understand very much that the Minister for Social Security does not want political debate and accountability in his field. It is, of course, much more comfortable to be a minister then. But that is not really how democracy and parliamentarism work. There the government presents proposals, and then debates and discussions are held with us in the opposition. Just sitting and having conversations in your office is not a sufficient tool to control Sweden and take responsibility for these systems. I'm sure the Minister of Social Security knows what the situation was when the Social Democrats last had access to the systems, how many people didn't get their money – now it's sighing. She probably knows what it was like when the queues to Försäkringskassan to get their compensation were so long that the security simply did not exist in society. It had fallen, collapsed, due to system overload. The Social Democrats do not want to know what they did in the 21st century in order to confiscate unemployment statistics. It is always afterwards that things should be put right, as when Kjell-Kjell-Olof Feldt explained that the report on how to cause the economic crisis in the 1990s should have come ten years earlier, or when Mona Sahlin resigned as party leader explained what was wrong with the grant line instead of with the work line in the party. Unfortunately, the Minister for Social Security, we have not yet seen what measures are going to get control of these systems, so that we can guarantee each other the security that we are going to have in a country like Sweden. However, if there are more and more people who need this type of allowance, do not have a job and do not return to their own livelihood, then it is also becoming increasingly difficult to guarantee that this security actually works and is accessible to everyone. Now that we are seeing large increases in costs, I expect greater political leadership than sitting and sighing over their counter-debaters. This requires serious discussion.
i-e51117834085aba8-436	Mr President, I would like to I note that Niklas Wykman still finds it more comfortable to talk about the beginning of the 2000s than about the years between 2010 and 2014, when Ulf Kristersson was Minister of Social Security and sickness rates increased by 50%. I would like action to have been taken at that time. Then perhaps we would not have sat down with the development that we now have to deal with. I'd like a few brief facts on the table. It is the third time in this House that I am talking about this, and Niklas Wykman is saying that I have not presented any measures whatsoever and that we have done nothing. That's a little bit why I sighed. Only yesterday, we sent 250 million annually to Försäkringskassan and 59 million annually to the coordination associations. Last spring it was SEK 100 million for the Swedish Work Environment Agency, including for a strengthening of research on women's health and working environment. To address this particular problem, we have now paid 280 million a year to the health care system for mental illness and 130 million a year for women's ill-health linked to primary care. At the same time, discussions are ongoing – they have been going on all along – with the social partners. Tomorrow we will present the rest of this package of measures. But I note that Niklas Wykman obviously does not listen to what I am saying at all. I find that very unfortunate. It is extremely important for this government that the people who can and have the ability should also be in the labour market. If you are ill, you should get support and help to get back as soon as possible. This is a very worrying development we have, and this is absolutely at the top of my list of priorities, and also of the government. Of course, we need to see this as a major societal challenge and get control of it.
i-e51117834085aba8-439	Mr President, I would like to Hans Rothenberg has asked the Minister for Enterprise and Innovation what he wants to do to enable companies in the welfare sector to develop and thereby invest in knowledge, staff and modern technology. Isabella Hökmark has asked me what measures the government intends to take to strengthen the conditions for entrepreneurship in the welfare sector. The work within the government is so divided that it is I who should answer both interpellations. I will respond to them in a joint response. Competitive framework conditions are essential if we are to have new, knowledge-intensive and growing companies in all areas. It must be easier to start up and run businesses and be able to grow by investing, hiring more or exporting. The Government is therefore working with several different measures to improve the overall business environment in Sweden. We have established an Innovation Council that will contribute with proposals for efforts to develop and strengthen Sweden's innovation and competitiveness. We have also added an investigation into the innovation and entrepreneurship climate ( Dir. 2015:10, which will, among other things, review key framework conditions for entrepreneurship, innovation and adaptability. Furthermore, the Government sees great opportunities for companies in the welfare sector to develop by strengthening Swedish innovation procurement. As far as the welfare sector is concerned, the Government considers it reasonable to require private operators who receive public funds to demonstrate that the funds are passed on to users. Welfare does not function as a normal market. For example, being able to determine the quality of a school is complicated compared to a standard consumer product. Changing schools for those who are dissatisfied risks going out over the pupil's schooling, and it is also difficult to compensate afterwards for an education that has failed to meet the standards. When quality is difficult to evaluate, there is a risk that profit interests are heading in the wrong direction. A clear example of such negative steering effects is that welfare companies in elderly care, for example, reduce staffing to make profits. It therefore needs to be ensured that it is not possible to reduce staffing so as to impair the quality or safety of healthcare, school and care activities. In neither Norway, Denmark nor Finland, private companies are allowed to run schools with public funding and at the same time make profits. Any surplus should remain in the business and benefit the students. Chile, which, together with Sweden, has long been one of the few countries in the world that allowed private school companies to make profit out of tax money, has begun a reform effort aimed at banning profit withdrawals. This means that Sweden can soon stand quite alone in the world by allowing private companies to make profits at the expense of schoolever's teaching. Against this background, the Government has set up an investigation into a new regulatory framework for public funding of private welfare services, Dir. 2015:22. A starting point for the new rules is, among other things, to make it easier for ideas-based actors to operate in the welfare sector. So far, purchases from idea-based actors in healthcare, school and care have been made to a small extent. The study will therefore examine, among other things, the possibilities of strengthening the position of idea-based actors in procurement legislation and identifying the barriers that exist from the point of view of capital supply for idea-based actors. In many countries idea-based actors are the dominant provider of welfare services. For example, the Netherlands, where the concept-based sector is an important form of operation in health care. There is much to be gained in terms of diversity if more actors with this background can be involved in the performance of welfare services. In order to cope with the welfare mission in the future, we need to seize the strength and potential of, among other things, the idea-based sector. The government has begun this important work.
i-e51117834085aba8-449	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply. I asked a question this spring to Minister of Enterprise Mikael Damberg. I thought it was appropriate to ask a question about the ability of companies to operate and restrictions on competition. It was because social innovation is very important and helps to solve societal challenges and meet social needs. Historically, many of these innovations have proved crucial to social development. However, a worrying development can be seen in the case of companies operating in the public sector. It is important to focus on strengthening the innovation power in public operations in order to facilitate the use of innovations, mainly within municipalities and county councils. Here, many companies in several welfare sectors make a significant contribution. They need long-term and clear conditions in order to establish themselves, but also in order to survive and – don't forget – develop further. The ability to generate profits for their operations is crucial for their development and survival. However, a basic condition is that they operate on equal terms compared to companies in other sectors. The Minister for Industry was kind and answered the question within two weeks, as it should. There was a response on innovation procurement, a commitment to the life science sector and a major effort in the rest, without further detailing it. But there was nothing about the opportunities for companies to develop in the welfare sector. That is why I put the corresponding question in an interpellation to the Minister for Economic Affairs. It's been four months. I wonder whether it is perhaps not even a new parliamentary record in delaying interpellation responses, Mr President. I am glad that we are standing here, now that the parliamentary season has started, but it is usually two weeks that apply. Perhaps the Constitutional Committee or some other body will have to take a closer look at it. The Minister bypassed a substantial part of the reasoning, namely the possibility of generating profits for development. It is important for many of the companies that are currently involved and are going through quite complicated procurements within county councils and municipalities. These are small companies that often live entirely on the margins. Their ability to operate is very crucial. Today there is a clear uncertainty as to their long-term prospects and survival. In the interpellation response, I note that in words it is very benevolent, but in action there is more focus on limitations. It's troubling. This may be worrying for me and for the Swedish Parliament. But it is probably most worrying for the companies and the many who are employed in companies operating in the welfare sector. The answer breathes more focus on the public sector than on entrepreneurship. This is quite typical, and obstacles take precedence over opportunities. Mr President, I would like to Well-being is one of the finest things you can do. It's about making efforts to make many people feel a little better and make our most important bricks in the community work better. It is about learning to read and count and taking care of those people who today may not really work on their own. That is why it is a very important resource to take advantage of the entrepreneurship that is in this sector.
i-e51117834085aba8-456	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Government for the answer to my interpellation. Unfortunately, it does not handle much female entrepreneurship, and that can be an answer in itself. My interpellation came about when the Prime Minister in this House denied that it is women's entrepreneurship that dominates the welfare sector. We know that seven out of ten companies in the welfare sector are run and owned by women. If we had as many private companies in the welfare sector as there are in other countries in Europe, we would have many more female CEOs and come up at a European level. It is precisely this sector of entrepreneurship that the government wants to reduce the conditions for. I ask: why do you want to strangle entrepreneurship in the sector dominated by women's entrepreneurship and ownership? Why are you fighting women's entrepreneurship and almost running your legs to subsidise companies in the construction sector where men dominate? They also receive a very large share of tax money.
i-e51117834085aba8-459	Mr President, I would like to 中 Whether the shortcomings that have been highlighted in recent times are due to mistakes, individual fortune seekers or are signs of a more systematic use of the systems, it is a political responsibility to ensure that the regulatory framework is tightened up. No one in Sweden should have to suffer from shortcomings, inequality or poor accessibility in school, healthcare and care. Since welfare services are financed jointly, this is not a market. A market is characterised by a price and a level of production where supply and demand meet. That's not how welfare works. We guarantee each other certain services and it is the need, not the ability to pay that governs. ––– This also places great demands on the design of systems that make every tax chandelier do the greatest possible benefit. – – – However, the starting point cannot be to serve the interests of individual actors. The various actors are important for satisfying people's needs and meeting the general requirements, never the other way round. ..................................................... Mr President, I would like to These were not my words. It's quote from a debate article on DN Debate 12 June 2015. The authors are Anna Kinberg Batra and Peter Danielsson, who are part of the moderate party leadership. Words are binding, for what is said is in harmony with reality. Welfare is not a market. We have a duty to address the problems that exist in the regulatory framework for public welfare services. The Government considers it reasonable to require private actors providing welfare services to demonstrate that public funds are passed on to users. Isabella Hökmark asks why it is precisely welfare companies that should not be able to run with surplus. It is no coincidence that the rest of the world prohibits private school companies from making profits from tax money. It is difficult to evaluate the quality of welfare services, and users are at a disadvantage to the producers. It is precisely in such services that research believes that the risk is greatest that profit-seeking actors cut down on quality in order to make profit. Mr President, I would like to It is against this background that even the moderate party leadership states on DN Debate that welfare is not a market. It is a system that is funded jointly by us and that should be given as needed and not based on profit thinking and logic. Good quality in welfare arises in the meeting between staff and users. This is why the staff is the most important resource for welfare. It is a fact that profit-seeking actors generally have lower staff density and a higher proportion of fixed-term employees in both school and care for the elderly. Against this background, I find it odd that Hans Rothenberg and Isabella Hökmark focus on and defend the profits of companies rather than thinking about how we can improve the employment conditions of the most important resource of welfare, the employees. The mission of welfare is not to promote the ability of entrepreneurs to make profits. Welfare is primarily for the users. Those who work with this important social mission must be given good working conditions and conditions to complete the assignment.
i-e51117834085aba8-467	Mr President, I would like to It was a rhetoric that we recognize. It is this constant fear that someone or some might have a little crown over on something that can contribute to the development of society. What, then, is the opposite of profit? Yes, it's loss. Is the loss we want, the loss of knowledge, hands in the care and opportunities to develop in their work? My question in the interpellation to the Government was: What does the Government want to do to enable companies in the welfare field to develop and thereby invest in knowledge, personnel and modern technology? I have not received an answer to that question. I have just had one argument as to why companies operating in this perhaps the finest of sectors should not be able to do certain things and where it is only a matter of limitations. I'm going to ask you to read a quote for the minister in return. We all come into contact with the welfare of life. The public sector is an important tool for everyone's freedom, equality and the development of society as a whole. With confidence in the competence of the welfare workers and constant improvement work, everyone can gain the good welfare they deserve. ..................................................... It is the Minister himself who has written this. It's on the government's website. I just wonder: why does the Minister of Civil Affairs not have confidence in all the performers of welfare? It is about the many people who work in companies. It is people who are employed in companies who should not be allowed to make a surplus. What can a surplus be used for? There's a lot you can use it for. The traditional picture of social democracy and the left is that it is money that will land on some obscure island in some channel in northern Europe. Maybe there's a crown or two that ends up there, and they shouldn't. That's not where welfare money is supposed to end up. But there is a lot of money that could be invested in these companies. It is investment in better tools, better work equipment and a better working environment for employees. A surplus for a well-being company could also go to staff training. Training is one of the most important things to be able to be competitive over time in a labour market. Welfare employees should reasonably have opportunities for both further training and for developing their working environment. For that, there must be resources. For that, you use profit money. The third important thing that can be obtained if a company can make a profit is a higher salary for its employees. In the public sector, the pay gap is clearly limited; we know that. There are welfare actors in both non-profit organisations and in cooperatives, but also within companies, who can offer employees other conditions – better conditions and more flexible conditions at work. This presupposes that these companies should also be able to make a margin that can go back to it. I ask the question again: what does the Minister want to do to enable companies in the welfare field to develop for the benefit of their employees?
i-e51117834085aba8-477	Mr President, I would like to The government says that we should demand from the private that they have high quality. I agree, and I disagree. I think so, but I think we should, of course, demand this from the local authorities as well. This is the work that should be done in the municipalities: you should have quality controls and also penalties and so on on both municipal and private operators who receive tax money to carry out good care. The government is talking about the market. I don't really know what it would look like when a hospital is built, when electricians come to do a job or when you pave a roundabout somewhere. Shall we ask them questions in the municipality? What if we were to say: Now we are going to pave here for the municipality, and I would like to see what you are doing for profit first. Otherwise, you can't do this, and if you're going to build this hospital, your carpenters can't make any profit! I don't know what the market would look like then. There's no one who would run a construction company like that, I think. I don't know what reality the government is living in. Perhaps I can give you some tips after the debate at the company to visit. I've been around with many both municipal and private performers. The private people I have visited are women who may have worked first without taking any pay. They make investments, and they don't get anything out. Then they can start to collect wages, and I can also think it worthy that you can make a small profit if you have made investments in order to have a good quality. I have asked the Parliamentary Investigation Service to look at what it looks like in different blue and red municipalities. It turns out that in the blue municipalities, where freedom of choice has always been allowed and where there are many private alternatives, the quality is higher. There, customers receive better care and care than they have received in the red municipalities. My question is still: why should more tax money be allowed in the pockets of construction companies when a woman who has invested a lot in her own company is not allowed to make a small profit? I don't understand that.
i-e51117834085aba8-482	Mr President, I would like to I would like to emphasise once again that the welfare sector's mission is not to promote the ability of entrepreneurs to make profits. That is not why we have publicly funded welfare. Entrepreneurs who do a good job and reinvest in their businesses are not the problem. The problem is if you reduce the quality and staffing to make a profit. The problem is if resources are not used for what they are intended for. The problem is if a municipality raises funding for schools to raise teachers' salaries and a independent school then announces that the money will be taken out of the business to perhaps be distributed as a profit – something that is allowed in today's regulations. Mr President, I would like to We have an obligation to taxpayers: each krona should be used efficiently and used for the activities for which the tax kronas are intended. Here welfare activities, advanced health care, care for the elderly, school, preschool and social care are compared with concrete. We are well aware that it is not possible to use a procurement procedure intended for the purchase of concrete and construction services when financing welfare services, where quality work is so much more complex and where we talk about relationships between people. We cannot have the same rules for concrete as for children. Here, for example, we have a duty to work towards transparency and transparency so that we can monitor the use of public resources, whether we are talking about municipal schools or independent schools. We have an obligation to ensure that it is not possible to reduce staffing to make profits and dividends to shareholders. That is our duty, Mr President, both to the users and to the employees of public welfare. No, welfare is not a market. That's where the moderators are right. I hope that more Moderates will come to the conclusion that we cannot use the welfare and the logic of the market in constructing models that deal with the regulatory framework for private performers in public welfare. Welfare in Sweden needs more actors who are governed by interests other than profit. My conviction is that innovations that come from the drive to provide better care and service bring greater benefit to users than innovations emanated from a profit interest in welfare. In sectors where quality can be clearly evaluated, a strong interest in profit can lead to something positive. We see many industries where it works. From a societal point of view, it is better for these companies to act in other sectors. It is well known that the welfare sector faces major challenges, not least in the light of demographic developments. To meet the challenge, we need to harness the strength and potential of the ideas-driven actors. The problem is that the current regulatory framework does not provide good conditions for the idea-driven players. It has a commercial logic that has replaced public monopolies. That's not good. We must give the idea-driven actors the opportunity to work with innovations. But innovations can never be about lowering quality in order to distribute profits. Innovations can never be about making welfare conditions worse for employees. Here we need to develop a regulatory framework that changes the situation that we have today and solves the problems and shortcomings that have been identified in recent years. Here, too, we need a political discussion in which we acknowledge that things may not have turned out as we intended. Then we need to change the regulatory framework, Mr President.
i-e51117834085aba8-490	Mr President, I would like to This has been a clarification debate. I think the last speech by the Minister for Civil Affairs was very telling. He did not say a word about how people who have an idea and a desire to be able to help and to be able to do so in a special form of organization should be able to do this. He was just talking about limitations. Comparing and using words such as concrete, market and reduced quality in a context of welfare is a deep censure by many ambitious people who want to make a difference. I wasn't expecting that angle. Now I put the question to the Minister for Economic Affairs. If the Minister for Economic Affairs had taken the ball, I think there might have been another approach to the debate. That is very possible, and I will try one more time when I have the opportunity with Mr Damberg. I was with my committee on a trip two weeks ago in South Korea. It is a country that is under great upheaval and a country that has a large proportion of female population who quit working at about 30 years of age and who never returns to work. They are often more educated than men. It's the women who stay at home and end up at home. South Korea is very interested in how Swedish childcare works. They come here with delegations and like to meet them – call them companies – who are interested in going to export with this in order to be able to help. But then you have to have a reference market at home. That is what I find so terrible: that the Social Democratic and environmental party government is so categorically opposed to all forms of activity other than the idea-based and public sector being allowed to operate here. I would like to open up these possibilities, and I would like an answer in the last speech. How does the Minister want such companies to be able to operate and develop?
i-e51117834085aba8-496	Mr President, I would like to I agree that taxpayers' money should be used effectively. The great losers here are not only women who cannot run businesses, but it is all citizens who are no longer given freedom of choice when you are now going to strangle entrepreneurship in this sector. There is a report called Global Entrepreneurship Monitor that has compared 73 different countries, and there you can see that women's entrepreneurship in Sweden has decreased by 44 percent between 2014 and 2015. The very knowledge that you are against this business may be a cause. I heard the Prime Minister say in the government declaration that you are the most feminist government and that you are working for gender equality. I don't know how you're gonna do that. How does it go with the fact that at the same time you are deteriorating for a large market where many talented women run businesses and also hire many women who are born abroad? In many of these companies, both RUT companies and in welfare, the proportion of women born abroad is seen to be over 40 per cent. It's a great job market for them. How can you become the most equal and feminist government when you are deteriorating for such a large market?
i-e51117834085aba8-499	Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to clarify two things. First of all, I want to make it clear that profits in tax-funded welfare activities are not a gender equality reform. I strongly oppose reducing the fight for gender equality to women's entrepreneurship in public welfare. Unless we change the norms of what is male and female, women's economic subordination cannot be broken. The reality is that women earn 86% of men's wages. Women take 75 per cent of the days in parental allowance. Women spend an hour more per day on unpaid work, while men spend an hour and a half more on paid work. It has a major impact on women's economic freedom and is not about profits in tax-funded welfare activities, but has quite different causes. The second thing I would like to object to is the view that the welfare sector is there to promote the interests of companies and that it is for companies that we have created the jointly funded welfare services. I think we can all agree that the welfare is for the users. That is why we have the tax-funded welfare system. Users should be able to access welfare services as needed. In fact, when the profit interests of entrepreneurs conflict with the interests of society and citizens in terms of welfare, entrepreneurs are allowed to stand down. When we have a conflict between the possibility to reduce staffing in order to increase the dividend to shareholders or to invest the money in the staff and business, we choose the business and the users. It is an obligation we have to the citizens of Sweden.
