i-49e881b9a43512e9-0	I would like to begin by informing you that the Prime Minister's Question Time has been cancelled today, because the Prime Minister will go to Trollhättan in response to the tragic events there.
i-49e881b9a43512e9-3	Mr President, I would like to Rickard Nordin has asked Minister for Culture and Democracy Alice Bah Kuhnke how cultural environmental values are taken into account in the measures planned in connection with the implementation of the EU Water Framework Directive. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. I would like to begin by stating that the power of water has been used by man for many centuries here in Sweden, which has shaped and affected the water-related environments. Preserved historical buildings and remains of lakes and watercourses are today important and valuable elements of our habitat that are appreciated by many people. At the same time, the environments are essential elements of cultural heritage that can give us significant knowledge of the development of society. To promote conservation of natural and cultural environmental values is also one of the clarifications within the environmental objective Living lakes and watercourses. I also note that hydropower is one of several types of water activities that have an impact on the bodies of water that the EU Water Framework Directive aims to protect. The previous government set up the so-called Water Activity Investigation to review the rules on water activities. As Rickard Nordin mentioned, the water operations investigation has subsequently submitted its final report to the Government, and the proposals of the investigation have since been referred to. The Government intends to return to Parliament on the matter. Hydropower was expanded during a time when the environmental requirements were not the same as today, and there have mainly been no environmental measures regarding the conditions for animal and plant life during the time these plants were in operation – now I talk generally and in overall terms about the Swedish hydropower. At the same time, hydropower is crucial in the transition to a fully renewable energy system and thus the environmental quality target Limited climate impact. Future legislative regulation needs to ensure that we step up the pace of adapting hydropower to current environmental requirements and that we reach the environmental quality targets set by Parliament as well as the energy and climate policy targets. In the further work, there must be a balance between different interests, such as fish migration, the needs of the power system and the protection of cultural environmental interests. The proposed Water Action Programme of the Water Authorities in consultation from November 2014 to May 2015 includes a identified action on developing guidelines and guidance for the inventory and assessment of the aquatic environments and facilities with cultural value in or in connection with bodies of water where action is needed to comply with the environmental quality standards for water. The proposed measures are addressed to the National Aquarium Office and the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management and are proposed to take place after consultation with the county administrative boards and central authorities with responsibilities in relevant matters and/or administrative areas. The water authorities have submitted the action programmes to the Government after the Swedish Board of Agriculture and a number of municipalities have requested this. The trial work is ongoing in the Government Office, and it is not possible for me to comment on what the final action programmes will look like.
i-49e881b9a43512e9-7	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Human settlements and activities have very strong links to water and watercourses. That's what the Prime Minister himself said. It is striking how almost all major cities in the world are located by water. It is exactly the same in Sweden. A large part of our industrial heritage from the Middle Ages onwards is linked to running water and hydropower. Here there are remains and facilities that still work. They are mills, saws, hammers, foundries, threshing blocks, rafting plants, ponds and silage beds. The Water Activity Investigation submitted its final report just before the summer of 2014. Naturally, there was no time for the Alliance government to deal with it. But a serious criticism of the Water Operations investigation was the one directed by the National Heritage Office, where it was said that the values of the cultural environment have been completely forgotten. There are clear shortcomings in this area. I would have liked to hear precisely the views of the Minister for Culture. Now she has handed it over to the Minister for Climate and Environment. I am a little curious as to why the government does not act more clearly when you see that things like utility environments, water mirrors, mills and other things clearly risk disappearing. This is happening as we speak. There is nothing that can wait while treatment is ongoing in the Government Office. This is a reality for a great many people today. Has the government made any evaluation of the impact this will have on the cultural values that exist? Riksantikvarien has said that this is the biggest threat to the Swedish cultural environment today. I see local associations and small-scale hydropower being forced to close down. Dams are torn out, and then the ground for these fine environments disappears. I'm a little curious. Is there any kind of evaluation by the government as to what impact it will have precisely on the cultural environmental values when looking at the Water Activity Directive and the Water Activity Investigation? If so, will there be some kind of compensation for those who have built their houses along water mirrors, where the fine pond now becomes a stinking gutter? In many places these are the great values in rural Sweden. People are building their holiday home along with a pond or stream that is now in danger of disappearing when you are forced to tear down the dams in the process that is already under way.
i-49e881b9a43512e9-14	Mr President, I would like to I would like to correct the picture that a number of decisions have been taken by this government which are rapidly being implemented in the country, leading to the demolition of dams, the destruction of cultural environments and the constant decline in the importance of small-scale hydropower for cultural environments. That is not the case. The work we are doing in the Government Office is not least about taking care of referral points on the Water Activity Investigation and what was the original question of the interpeller, that is, the implementation of the EU Water Framework Directive. That directive has a very clear focus on water quality. If you do this in the wrong way, there may of course be a number of conflict areas with strong cultural values. We see how hydropower has developed in the used landscape in Sweden. That is also why I pointed out the strength of the Swedish environmental objectives system: it defines both climate and natural environmental objectives, for example to facilitate the migration of fish and other marine species in our lakes and streams – we know what an incredible driving force this is in rural development, not least in terms of increased fish routes and so on – as well as for cultural values to be properly assessed and balanced. In the environmental objectives system, we have said that there are sometimes conflicts of interest that we should resolve in a balanced way. The dilemma of the previous environmental policy was that it made a point-by-point effort for what was the most popular problem of the day, and it did not really look at what happened in other areas. If we safeguard a system of environmental objectives in essence, we also defend the need to pay particular attention to the various interests involved in this. I understand that it is not the interests of energy policy that we are currently debating. We can do that on another occasion. Rickard Nordin is a good debater in that area. However, I would like to come back to my next speech by giving a small counter-image. Is it really always a radical conflict between protecting cultural values and protecting natural values? What I see around Sweden is that in many places you actually succeed in building on the local, genuine and strong feeling you have for your cultural heritage together with the natural values. Together you will find ways to get watercourses that have an increased wealth of species diversity. This brings an increased experience to the local residents, local visitors and the long-distance tourists. We should not underscore that we can find a real win-win situation in the local environments when we get a protection of both cultural and natural values. I will return to a number of such examples that I see right now in Sweden. This does not mean that, as I said in my introductory speech, the government should not return to Parliament. Of course you should. These are the different parts that the Water Activity Investigation pointed out. How do we handle it? How can we move forward? I hope and believe that Rickard Nordin and the Center Party are still backing up the need for work in the water sector that supports modern environmental legislation, but that this should be done taking into account, among other things, the cultural values of the environment.
i-49e881b9a43512e9-21	Mr President, I would like to I am, of course, right to say that no active decisions on this matter have been taken by the Government. The problem is that non-decisions are also decisions. That's the big problem, isn't it? I agree with many of these things, but the problem with the balanced decisions that the government claims to be working on is that we need them now. This is where things happen in Västra Götaland. It is now that things are happening in Skåne and in quite a few other parts of the country. While the government is thinking about its balanced decisions, it will be too late. For many of these cultural environments, it is too late. I absolutely defend the environmental objectives and the environmental quality objectives. The clarifications for environmental objectives for living lakes and watercourses include conservation of natural and cultural environmental values. You can read inside. It says: The natural and cultural values of lakes and watercourses are preserved, and there are conditions for continued conservation and development of the values. In many parts of Sweden, this is being destroyed today. That is the big problem. You can move on to the next point, which concerns outdoor life. This means that beach environments, lakes and watercourses values for bathing, boating and other outdoor activities are protected and maintained and that the impact of noise is minimised. We will of course work on hiking paths for fish. It is incredibly important when it comes to rural tourism and jobs. However, the balanced decisions that I am calling for must be given the chance to operate in the processes that are now under way. Otherwise it will be too late, especially for all the non-profit associations that run old mills and take care of utility environments and other things. If they are not allowed to retain the small revenues they currently receive from, for example, hydropower, much of this will disappear and be closed down. Then there's no one to take care of it. Is the government prepared to go in and support in any way to ensure that this does not happen while choosing to prepare the issue? Once again, has there been any evaluation of the effects that arise while we are waiting for a response from the government?
i-49e881b9a43512e9-28	Mr President, I would like to I replied earlier to the questions that were now repeated, but I also promised that I would give a counter-image of what is happening. It goes without saying that we are constantly in a transformation. The landscape is in a transformation. Of course, not least individual property owners have the right to take measures with applicable legislation and regulations and after-sales supervision. I think we respect that here in Parliament. But you can look at whether there really is always a conflict between nature conservation and cultural conservation. I would like to mention, for example, the work in Hertingforsen, Halland. Falkenberg Municipality, the County Administrative Board and the authorities have collaborated here to enable fish migration while maintaining power production and the cultural environment. Information efforts have also been developed. You can simply see that you have much larger values locally. It is not just a pond where you have a water business where you get a certain electricity production, but there are even greater values to get. This applies to the greater values of the cultural environment and, in particular, the values of nature in the form of migratory fish. This is a work that we already support in several ways in the greatly increased ambition that the government has announced in both the budget we are working on right now and the budget that we have announced and which I know Parliament will be debating in the autumn for the coming years. That is what is about managing nature and doing it locally. We have been clear to the County Administrative Board that this is where you can coordinate and strengthen, for example, the local efforts to make natural and cultural values interrelated. It is a huge deal about experiences, recreation and good values for many in our country and many who visit our country. Many people are prepared to pay quite good money to visit our country and, for example, to fish in some of the Swedish waterways. If we can develop it, I think there are many great values locally and of course for Sweden as a country that can be realized. The discussion you can have is about how we should ensure that you get these values out instead of everyone sitting and holding on to their own. We know that it initially costs some investment money when it comes to the environmental modernisation of a power plant. Who will bear those costs? Are they the benefits of making such a radical and positive change for the cultural landscape, the natural landscape, local tourism and the tourism industry? I do not believe that any of the parties in this Parliament have yet landed in that there should be special support funds directly from the state out to the large landowners and small hydropower companies that exist. The compensation system in the hydroelectric power sector is already very strongly regulated. I believe that it needs to be modernised in order for us to find the ways where we can get much greater values locally and nationally also in money from the natural and cultural values that exist. But I fully share the interpellant's desire to take cultural environmental considerations into account, and it should be clearly taken into account. This is particularly the case with less hydropower. I mentioned Hertingforsen. The Fyrisån Water Association is located in Uppsala municipality. We see that it is very strong cultural values that have been taken into account. You've been working actively on it, and you've got big values back. For example, the endangered fish aspen has been able to return. There has been cooperation, and of course it is also a question of preserving cultural historical values in these landscapes. I want to remove the image that it is always a conflict. It is also possible to ensure that you can work together.
i-49e881b9a43512e9-37	Mr President, I would like to It's obvious. Halland is a precedent. In Blomstermåla in Småland they have also been very good. There are several good examples. The problem is that it doesn't look like that all over Sweden. It is these cooperations that we are calling for. And the balanced assessments the government is talking about, I'm the first to welcome. The problem is, we're not there today. We're not there all over Sweden. A lot of people will be affected. Many cultural environments will then be lost. In order to bring this about, the Center Party has proposed a moratorium that will ensure that we do not tear up any more dams and do not close any more power plants until the matter is well balanced and balanced. It's about finding good examples. I agree with that. There are so many places where you can do this in a smart way and where you can get more values from the energy, cultural environment and tourist point of view. There are a lot of good examples. But then you actually have to sit down and have the chance to evaluate and make well-balanced assessments. In many places it is not happening today, especially with regard to some of the examples in the country that I mentioned, where the county administrative board has been quite intrusive to make sure that it is as you want it to be. Then we're not talking about a balanced assessment anymore. That is why we want a moratorium. Otherwise it will be too late in many places. What is hidden behind the order is that the Government intends to enter the Parliament on the matter is precisely a non-decision. There's a lot of time in the meantime. But, for those who are now in the process and other things, can we perhaps get some more concrete information about when the Minister intends to come back? When does the Minister intend to come back on this issue, and in what way is the Minister of Culture involved in this? I think that the question of cultural environments should also be on the table of the Minister for Culture.
i-49e881b9a43512e9-42	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank you for a good debate on an issue that I am not entirely unaccustomed to standing here and debating, that is to say on small-scale hydropower. I would remind you that the supervisory rules that apply to county boards when making decisions in individual cases are something that I, as a minister, cannot or cannot influence. It is a supervisory activity that takes place on the basis of existing laws and regulations. It is an activity that was strongly encouraged by the former alliance government, which gave clear instructions that this supervision by the county boards was important. Then I understand that some people are not at all satisfied with how certain county boards have dealt with the matter in certain individual cases. This may be the case from the Riksdag, because there is no ban on ministerial government. But the government allows itself to prepare things according to the usual routine in Sweden, i.e. that we change regulations that we want amended and do a thorough legislative work when we want to make changes to the law. Such work is ongoing with regard to the Water Activity Investigation. In parallel, important work is underway to implement the EU Water Framework Directive in the new cycle that we are facing. In the face of both of these tasks, it is of great importance that the parties of the Riksdag also see that it is important to weigh of several interests and that all interests should of course have a word on the team. I think that the Center Party has exercised this in an exemplary way in the Riksdag. I can assure Rickard Nordin that when the government returns, we will do so fully as a government, and Minister of Culture and Democracy Alice Bah Kuhnke is fully involved in the decisions that the government will come back to Parliament with.
i-49e881b9a43512e9-47	Mr President, I would like to Jenny Petersson has asked me why the bill on register extracts in working life is missing from the bill list. Jenny Petersson has also asked me if I believe that register extracts in working life are no longer a problem worth solving. My previous position, in which I am concerned about the development that an increasing number of extracts from the register are being requested by individuals at the request of employers who have no right to obtain these data from the register themselves, remains. I share Jenny Petersson's view that people who have been convicted and served sentences need to return to their own livelihood through work and that the request for extracts from the register may make it more difficult for these people. The Government's ambition is still to present a proposal with proposals on how to limit the collection of extracts from the register without constitutional support. However, we are in the midst of an emergency situation with a high reception of refugees, which has led the Ministry to give higher priority to work on other issues.
i-49e881b9a43512e9-50	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for Employment for his answer. The fact that I have asked Ylva Johansson this question about why the bill on register extracts in working life is missing from the bill list is that in previous interpellations it has been announced that it would be on Parliament's table here this autumn. It is an important issue that people who have committed crimes after judgment and served a sentence can return to their own livelihood through work as quickly as possible, and several steps have been taken. Preparations for this have been developed in institutions. Opportunities to study have been improved. Arbetsförmedlingen and the Prison Service have expanded their cooperation. This is a step in the right direction. I know that the current refugee crisis is an important and topical issue, but I am not buying that is why the bill is not on the table. Why not? Well, the investigation was submitted to a former Labour Minister of the Alliance Government in June 2014. The report was then delivered, SOU 2014:48. It was for the then Minister for Labour, and I can see that it has been quite a while. This has, of course, been referred to. I can briefly say that the investigation was put on the table, it has been referred for a referral and that is an urgent issue. In an interpellation debate with Beatrice Ask earlier this spring, on 17 April, it was said that it was an urgent issue already then and that it would come this autumn. The question then arises: When does the Minister return with a bill on this urgent matter on the table of Parliament?
i-49e881b9a43512e9-56	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I fully share the view that this is a very important issue. Excerpts from the load register have increased avalanche. This is an increase from 2003, when it was 40,000, to 220 000 extracts in 2013. This is a completely unreasonable development, so I will make proposals on restrictions on this and intend to follow largely the investigation's proposals that have been referred to. The plan was to present a proposal last autumn, as Jenny Petersson points out. Now, however, we have a situation in which the Government Office has entered into a crisis organisation. This has meant a reorganisation of work, and other urgent work has also had to be brought forward with priority in view of the situation. The Government Office has a limited number of lawyers and administrators who have the competence to develop this type of proposal. It is clear that a government has to put forward proposals, but a government also has to deal with the emergency situations that are happening in the country. At this point, we have had to re-prioritise labour resources, and that is why it is not on the bill list. I hope it can come as soon as possible.
i-49e881b9a43512e9-59	Mr President, I would like to I hear what Ylva Johansson says and I am prepared to sign that resources need to be given priority to the emergency refugee crisis. However, I cannot buy the argument that all the resources are transferred there. If I am to interpret Ylva Johansson correctly, this means that you have not done anything since you thought it was an urgent issue on 17 April in the interpellation debate with Beatrice Ask until now when you redistribute the resources. This means that nothing has been done with the investigation that has been on the table since June last year. The investigation proposed to propose a new law. It shall be prohibited for employers to request, without legal support, that job seekers present an extract from the load register. An employer who violates that prohibition shall be able to pay damages. I think this is entirely reasonable, and I therefore think it is important that this proposal should be put on the table of Parliament. I can also note that the draft report has been consulted. It has been stated in the past that this is an urgent issue, but I can see that nothing has happened since the last interpellation debate on this subject on 17 April. Nothing's happened. Everything – investigation and referral – is probably in a box at the Ministry of Labour and gets to lie there for a while longer. I find it unfortunate that you cannot have several balls in the air. There is a certain situation, but why can the government not come forward and present any proposals despite the fact that this issue is of great concern to several different parties? We seem to agree.
i-49e881b9a43512e9-64	Mr President, I would like to I find it a little sad that Jenny Petersson is seeking conflict on this issue. I can assure Jenny Petersson that there are no other reasons why we had to remove it from the bill list than the workload at the Ministry of Labour. It is my intention to come back with a bill, and I welcome and expect that there may be broad support for this in Parliament. This is a very urgent issue. Of course, it is not true that we have not prepared or started work on the bill in the Government Office. That's what we did. But in an emergency situation when the Government Office enters a crisis organization, each task must be set against other new, urgent tasks that come and become necessary to perform in the Government Office. Then at this point I have chosen not to promise a bill on the bill list. It's not just a question of taking in referrals, and it's Jenny Petersson well aware of that. This is, of course, a constitutional requirement for processing requirements that must be of a certain quality. That work has begun, but I have not made the assessment that we will be able to finish that work this year. That's why the bill isn't on the list. I'll get back to you as soon as possible. It is absolutely my ambition that we address the problem.
i-HHU1eCCNQREkaaU67yrYYA	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the answer, Ylva Johansson! My role as a Member of Parliament in opposition is to ensure that all issues are worked through despite the need to prioritise other things. I fully understand that the government is setting different priorities. M an I work in opposition, and I work in this seemingly small but very important issue in order to produce new requirements and rules for extracts from load registers. There are many aspects to why this is an urgent and important issue. I consider moderate that if you have been convicted and have served your sentence, you should be regarded as a free person. It must be the basic attitude of a legal society. As the Minister for Labour pointed out, there has been an inflation in requesting excerpts from the criminal record. If you have served your sentence, you should get to work and build a normal life as soon as possible through the prison. Employers continue to request extracts from registers. As a result, the person who has been convicted is constantly reminded of and judged on the basis of the crime. It's always a reminder of the past. Too many people are sorted out by employers and never get a chance to assert their knowledge, work experience or other experiences during a job interview. Of course, it's about attitudes toward freed people. I hope the Minister will come back with a bill.
i-49e881b9a43512e9-72	Mr President, I would like to I welcome Jenny Petersson's commitment to this issue, and I look forward to debating more when the bill comes on the table of Parliament.
i-49e881b9a43512e9-73	Mr President, I would like to Katarina Brännström has asked the Minister for Labour if the Minister for Labour believes that the government's increased costs for the energy sector could be a threat to jobs in the energy sector. The interpellation has been handed over to me. Katarina Brännström raises an important issue from both the labour market and energy point of view. The level of the thermal power tax in nuclear reactors, the so-called power tax, has remained unchanged since the previous government raised the tax on 1 January 2008. The Government proposed in the 2015 Spring Change Budget an increase in the tax on thermal effect to take account of changes in the general price development and create additional financial space. The proposal entered into force on 1 August 2015. That both Vattenfall and Eon announced the closure of the oldest reactors is not unexpected. Market prices of electricity have been low for some time and are expected to be so long in the future. The price level is based on the existence of a surplus of electricity on the market. The natural thing in such a situation is that the most unprofitable – which is usually the oldest – production units are removed from the market. That is exactly what is now being announced. It is often argued that it is precisely the impact tax that has caused the cup to run over and makes certain nuclear reactors unprofitable. But let me refer to Magnus Hall, who has stated, among other things, that it is not the increase in the power tax per se that makes Vattenfall want to close Ringhals 1 and 2 prematurely, but it is the combined effect of electricity prices that have halved since 2010, low coal prices and low electricity demand that affect the decision. The energy sector is undergoing structural change at the moment, and we must make sure that we take advantage of the opportunities it offers. Sweden is particularly well placed to expand renewable energy through our good access to water, wind and forest. Being at the forefront of research, development and commercialisation of renewable energy and smart energy use creates new industries, new export opportunities and new jobs. The 2016 budget proposal proposes a series of energy initiatives, including to promote the installation of solar cells and to renovate and energy-efficient multi-residential buildings. These measures create jobs in the energy sector. In the light of the foregoing, I see no reason to take any further action in response to Katarina Brännström's question.
i-49e881b9a43512e9-81	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for Energy for his reply. That was not really the answer to my question, but a warm thank you anyway. The question was: Does the Minister for Labour think that the increased costs of the government for the energy sector could be a threat to jobs in the energy sector? Last week it became clear that four reactors are closing – two in Ringhals and two in Oskarshamn. The reason, of course, is that the economic calculation is cracking. This is about losses to the energy companies of many billions. Of course, the main problem for the nuclear industry is that the current electricity price has been the lowest since 2007 and that the spot price has not been lower in 15 years. We Moderates therefore feel that it is irresponsible to impose additional burdens on electricity generation by increasing the impact tax on nuclear power production. The substantial increase of 17 per cent from 1 August thus represents a substantial increase in costs of around 600 million per year. According to Eon CEO, both the electricity price and the power tax have influenced the decision to close down the reactors. Nuclear energy accounts for as much as 40 per cent of Swedish electricity production. In order to protect Swedish jobs and Swedish companies, it is important not to punish any type of energy, as we see now. In view of the low electricity price, therefore, a government which is concerned about jobs, and which is concerned about Swedish companies, should have reduced the impact tax instead of increasing it. Now, in a few years' time, at least a thousand jobs are at risk at the sites where the reactors are located. These are direct redundancies and also indirect redundancies for those serving nuclear power plants, such as construction firms, cleaning firms, control and surveillance. The Baylan Government said in its reply that the energy sector is undergoing a structural transformation into renewable energy and that new jobs are being created in a new industry. It's true. But in terms of how many more jobs there will be, it's a truth with modification. Several international studies show that large-scale subsidies distort the electricity market and knock out existing jobs. Let me give you an example. To cover the loss of Ringhals 1 and 2, 2,000 wind turbines are required. All these go with loss, and there will be a subsidy of about 4 billion per year. Moreover, it is not certain that they give the energy needed when it is cold outside. Many of the green jobs cost a lot of money and knock out other jobs. So there will be half as many jobs left. There may be new jobs, Minister of Energy Baylan, but they will not be more but fewer. Thus, one can definitely say that the record increase in the impact tax threatens the number of jobs in Sweden. One question is how this can help to bring the EU's lowest unemployment rate by 2020. At least it's a riddle to me.
i-49e881b9a43512e9-88	Mr President, I would like to Access to energy, especially electricity, at competitive prices and preferably as environmentally friendly and climate-smart as possible, is the whole focus of the government's policy. The truth is that one reason why prices are so low is that there is a large surplus of electricity. This is due to efforts made by the previous government and efforts made by this government for additional renewable electricity generation. At the same time, we can see that thanks to energy efficiency in buildings and industry combined with mild winters, the demand for electricity has fallen dramatically. Last year, 135 terawatt hours of electricity were requested at the same time as 151 were produced. This surplus has been exported mainly to Finland. Even with the decisions that have now been taken to phase out these four reactors in the run-up to 2020, both authorities and independent experts are counting on continued surpluses of electricity, which will be exported structurally. Those are facts. What does that mean in the long term? It is not unknown, Mr President, that the nuclear fleet is growing old. After all, the whole starting point of the bourgeois energy agreement of 2009 was that the present nuclear reactors would sooner or later be phased out for age and technology reasons. The solution in the agreement made by the previous government was to build new nuclear power stations in a nurse's place as the old ones exist, but with the addition that the new ones absolutely must not be subsidised or guaranteed by the public, that is to say, taxpayers. In practice, this has proved to mean that no new nuclear power plants will be built in Sweden. The phase-out is therefore not unexpected – on the contrary, it was the whole basis of the bourgeois settlement. With these conditions not being a new nuclear power plant, we are facing a challenge. Although in the short term we will continue to have a surplus of electricity and even if we have low prices in the short and medium term, we will have to rise as the other nuclear reactors are phased out in the coming decades. Regardless of taxes, it is clear that the time will gnaw at them. It is against this background that the government has set up an Energy Commission where all eight parliamentary parties sit to find a solution to this so that we can always guarantee our households electricity at competitive prices with safe delivery and preferably as climate smart as possible. It is the very essence of the policy that we are pursuing now. Then there is the recurring question of what is the reason for this. I do not think that we should make things easy, but I think we should listen to the industry. There are a number of circumstances that do this. The low prices, of course – they have fallen by 60% in recent years. The investment needs arising from the increased security requirements for Fukushima, which come into force by 2020 and which, in relation to the increase in the tax rate decided by Parliament on 1 August, are significantly higher. We also have an environment where the price of all forms of energy, renewables as well as fossils, is currently falling. It is clear that all of this together affects. Of course, taxes and instruments also have an impact, but industry has made it clear that it is not the increase itself that affects but the tax as a whole. I note that although the Moderates do not accept the latest increase, they do not have any proposals to remove the impact tax, as the industry is asking for.
i-49e881b9a43512e9-97	Mr President, I would like to The fact that the phasing out of old nuclear power plants is not unexpected, we can agree on that. But it goes without saying that the more costs you spend in a situation where revenue is falling rapidly and has been doing so for quite a long time, the greater the burden on profitability, which threatens future investments in the entire energy industry. As far as nuclear power plants are concerned, energy companies have invested many billions to renovate them and make them go for a number of more years. Now they are being dismantled prematurely – it is a gigantic destruction of capital. It will also affect a great many jobs. In Oskarshamn, 500 jobs are talked about right away. Of course, if you put a load on it, it can eventually get the load to tip over. I believe that the increased increase in the impact tax has placed a burden on an industry that is already severely affected. Therefore, I think it would be honest for the government to say that this can hit Swedish jobs, because that is actually the result. I also believe that the future must be secured. Now we have had some mild winters. We've had a recession. There is little need for energy, as it does, for example, during economic boom and when we have cold and long winters. So you cannot just look at what it looks like now, but you must have a strategy for the future. That is why I think it is unfortunate to close these reactors prematurely. It's about Swedish jobs. It is also about the Swedish base industry, which needs safe energy. There, too, jobs may be threatened if they do not have access to an even and stable energy supply and reasonable prices. I think that the government assumes a great responsibility for both the jobs and the companies in Sweden when you burden companies in this way. All taxes mean a cost, and it's going to be taken out somewhere. In an industry where you cannot control the price yourself, but it is regulated by a market, it is clear that you risk jobs in that market. I think it would have been honest if you had said that. I guess we'll all see the time and see what happens. However, we have a government that has had high tails and says that it should have the EU's lowest unemployment rate by 2020. The Confederation of Swedish Enterprise came up with a report this week that says that there will instead be a shortage of 25 000 jobs in order for there to be enough jobs in 2020. If you contribute high costs through tax charges on different companies in different ways, it will be difficult to achieve the goal. Above all, many people get out of work, and I'm worried about that.
i-49e881b9a43512e9-104	Mr President, I would like to I think Katarina Brännström has asked interesting questions about how conversion and restructuring in the energy market affects jobs and competitiveness, both in the energy market as such and of course in some sense – loudly said – in the corporate and industrial country of Sweden. That is, in the long run, what will become of it all. Nevertheless, I believe that we agree quite broadly on some issues of energy policy, such as the importance of security of energy supply. We have a lot of discussions in the current Energy Commission on some of that theme, namely on the basis that both households and companies should be able to count on having safe access to energy at reasonable prices and with as little environmental impact as possible. I also think that Katarina Brännström puts her finger on something important with the interpellation she has asked and with the questions to the Minister for Energy. This is the measure taken politically and how this affects the transformation of the energy market and, in the long run, Swedish business and Swedish competitiveness. I think, Mr President, that there are a number of issues that can be raised in this. Ibrahim Baylan just said to listen to the industry. He said that in answer to the question why there has been information and decision on the closure of nuclear power plants. It is true that it is a combination of low electricity prices and political decisions, that is, the overall tax burden. But then we can also get into the theme of listening to industry. We can look at the decisions that Ibrahim Baylan and the rest of the government have now taken and been involved in – the massive increase in the nuclear tax combined with the fact that, at this time, with historically low electricity prices, we want to further subsidise new power without any real demand on the market. The same industrial representative says that these are bad proposals, that it is not for the benefit of the energy market. We can look at those who are working in the Swedish industry – it could be representatives of the forest, mining, chemical and steel industries. They say that it would be unfortunate for the Swedish industry to take the steps that Ibrahim Baylan has taken with an increased nuclear tax and additional subsidies for renewable energy in the situation where we are today. My question to the Government, Mr President, is whether Ibrahim Baylan can explain in what way all those who are professionals – those who work daily with forests, chemistry, mines and steel, who lead large companies, who operate in this competitive market – are wrong when they say they do not support the government's proposal. Can the Government explain to them how they are wrong when they are concerned about the security of energy supply in the future when they express this?
i-49e881b9a43512e9-111	Mr President, I would like to I think it is important for the government to have a close dialogue and cooperation with Parliament's parties on energy policy. It is by its nature long-term. Many of the investments decided take between five and ten years to realise. This applies to both transmission and new production and some other aspects of the infrastructure. We have been anxious to have a close dialogue with the industry. What has been the industry's demand for many years? Well, it has called for cross-block consensus on energy policy, not because of what we are seeing today, because we have good access to electricity and low prices, the lowest in a very long time, but because there are today no answers to what the long-term supply of energy in Sweden looks like. It is the legacy of the bourgeois government. You believed during your reign, Katarina Brännström, that you had solved the problem. New reactors would replace the old ones, which would start to be phased out by 2020. That is literally what was said. The phase-out has begun, but there is no solution. That is why, having listened to the industry and the various parties, the government has taken the initiative for an Energy Commission. We have brought all parliamentary parties to find a common understanding so that we can supply Swedish industry and Swedish households with electricity at competitive prices in the long term. That's what we've done. Returning to what the Moderates are trying to score political points on, the increase in the impact tax, I would like to say that one should be aware that the increase in the thermal effect tax proposed by the current government is lower than the increase made by the moderate-led government in 2008. Not only that, but it also increased the tax on hydroelectric power so mildly that, even if you call it something else, hydroelectric power is actually paying higher taxes than nuclear power. Was the increase made in the sense of shutting down hydroelectric power or nuclear power? I do not think so, but they were done enough for the same reason that the current government is implementing the increase, namely for financial reasons. Mr President, I would like to We are talking about jobs in the energy sector. I would suggest that Katarina Brännström and Lars Hjälmered went out into the country to look at all the amazing things that are happening in the Swedish energy sector. At the moment, a number of small businesses are developing in the fields of wind power, solar power, energy use, forest and bioenergy and hydropower. These have great potential to grow in a world that needs to switch from fossil to fossil-free. It is clear that it creates jobs locally when using the resources available in the neighbourhood, but it also creates opportunities for exports of know-how, services and products. This will create a completely new sector for Sweden. There is great potential here. Of course we have an unsolved question, but we have it in common. It has not occurred in the last year. The question of how to react to the fact that most of our nuclear fleet is 40 years old and more we have in common. We don't have a solution to that. That's why we have an Energy Commission. Don't make this a question of wood! If we are to guarantee our industry and the country a good development, we must reach agreement across the block line. It is not enough either from the present or the former government, from the four bourgeois parties that continue to work together on energy issues. If we are to ensure good development, we need to find each other and thus secure the long-term energy supply in our country. It should be done at low prices, through safe deliveries and as environmentally friendly as possible.
i-49e881b9a43512e9-118	Mr President, I would like to I am not going to go into the technical aspects of energy, because the Minister can do much better than I can. My specialty is the jobs. I can only note that the comments made after the Government decided on the increase relate to the sharp increase in taxes and thus the reduced profitability of nuclear power impairs the conditions for future investments in Swedish energy supply. The Government weakens the Energy Commission's mandate and the ability to find sustainable and long-term solutions to Sweden's energy policy challenges. It was a comment from SKGS Energy Director Anna Holmberg. I have said that if one protects Swedish jobs and Swedish industry one should perhaps have thought about whether the right way is to place additional burdens on an already strained industry. It's gonna hit the jobs. When you, like the government, have a high tailline, it may be reasonable to think about where you put the burdens. The S-marked municipal councillor in Oskarshamn has already written letters to the government and appealed for the jobs in the municipality. This will hit municipalities that are already quite hard hit, municipalities that are not big and strong. Given the low price of electricity, I think the government should have been careful about jobs and reduced the electricity tax instead of raising it. When it was raised in 2008, we were in a boom. Then the prices were also high. It did not hit the industry as hard as it did the jobs.
i-49e881b9a43512e9-121	Mr President, I would like to In this final speech, let me make a few brief comments and start with the possible obvious, namely that the major fossil challenge – the energy minister mentioned fossil – lies in the transport sector and nowhere else. This is the big challenge for Sweden. We have other energy challenges. There is the concern that the government, with the decision it is now making in some sense, jeopardises the security of energy supply when it does not really have a plan for energy policy. It is true that there are ongoing discussions in the Energy Commission. I think it's basically a good mission. It is good to go on a study trip and organize seminars. However, I note that we are not yet in any substantial discussions that address the major challenges facing Sweden. The Commission's real, true and important mission lies before us. Nothing's happened in six months. Finally, Mr President, when the debate on the increase in the nuclear tax came up, Ibrahim Baylan was asked why the government is doing this. His answer was that it is a purely economic question. I would argue that the Green Party may see it a little differently, but Minister Baylan said that it is a right through the economic issue. We can note that there are analyses showing that there are some extra tax chandeliers in the short term, but analyses also show that in 2018 – 2020 these announcements and decisions will lead to a hole in the Treasury of the order of 11⁄2 billion in lost revenue. That's the effect. The responsibility lies with Ibrahim Baylan and his colleagues, who contributed to early closure and thus lost tax revenue. How does the Government view its own responsibility with regard to the hole that will arise?
i-49e881b9a43512e9-126	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the interpellant and Lars Helmered for an important discussion. Swedish energy policy has for 40 years been paralyzed by this kind of trench war about nuclear power. Nuclear power is important. It accounts for 40% of our electricity supply today. But I think it is clear both to the opposition and to the government that the current nuclear reactors will be phased out sooner or later. This 40% of our electricity generation is central. It is important that we succeed in finding a solution in which we can replace this production in a way that guarantees our industry low prices and safe deliveries. It should be as environmentally friendly as possible so that we do not need to have fossil sources. That is the challenge, and that is why we have started the work of the Energy Commission, which includes all parties. It is important to me that the discussion is based on facts, on research, and not on old cane horses. For this reason, the Energy Commission has devoted itself in its early days to fact-finding, knowledge-gathering. Otherwise, there is a risk that we will get caught up in old issues and will not get any further. Now we need to move on, because now it's serious. Now it's real. Although industry says that the six reactors remaining in the system after the phasing out of the system by 2020 will run for a further number of decades, yet their time will come, and so we cannot keep waiting. Above all, we cannot keep arguing about an issue that is so central and essential to the country's development, both for our households and for our industry. It is against this background that I would like to say: let us look through this together! We will also need to review taxes. We will need to review the instruments. We will need to review both market design and transmission as well as production. The only way to do it well is to do it together.
i-49e881b9a43512e9-132	Mr President, I would like to Mats Green has asked me how the proposals on the aggravation of rental of housing will lead to an increased supply, better utilisation and release of more housing in Sweden. Mats Green may have misunderstood the situation. The ambition to encourage private individuals to rent out their homes is good. However, as Morgan Johansson and I describe in the referenced debate article, the government in some parts wants to review the new rules on private rental because it is questionable whether the rules take sufficient account of the interests of tenants. As an example, we mention that tenants can be terminated at any time, even if the tenancy agreement has been concluded for a long time, which creates uncertainty and makes it difficult for a tenant to request a change in the lease terms, as they risk being terminated. I would also like to draw Mats Green's attention to the fact that the investigator's mandate includes an appropriate balance between the interests of the parties. The investigator shall take into account that private residences are often rented by people who need to find housing in a short time and can therefore have a difficult negotiating position, while it is important that the rules give people an interest in making their housing available when they are not used for some time. The assignment shall be presented by 1 February 2017. We will have to wait and see what changes the investigator considers justified.
i-49e881b9a43512e9-136	Mr President, I would like to With all due respect, I wonder what kind of world the Minister of Housing Kaplan lives in. In Sweden we now have an increasingly acute housing crisis every day that spills over on virtually all areas of society and affects people of all ages, in all life situations and in all parts of the country. Instead of facilitating the construction and renting of homes, however, the Red Green Government devotes more time and effort to making it difficult to rent a dwelling. I have therefore asked Mehmet Kaplan the obvious, given the great need for more housing, how the proposals for aggravating the renting of housing will lead to an increase in the supply, better use and release of more housing in Sweden. Minister of Housing Mehmet Kaplan and Minister of Justice Morgan Johansson made it clear in a debate article introduced in Svenska Dagbladet on 13 July this year that the government, as requested by the Left Party, wants to limit and make more difficult the possibility of renting a home, in particular secondary rental. Mr President, it can be added that the Left Party, a precondition for the red-green government base, has not tabled a single proposal to make it easier to build more homes, but, on the contrary, has only put forward proposals that limit this very point. The Alliance government implemented a sufficient number of effective measures and simplifications in terms of increased second-hand leasing opportunities to increase mobility in the housing market, better exploit existing stocks and stimulate the emergence of a spot market, as the absence of a spot market for housing with more or less short-term contracts in itself becomes a growth problem for the country as a whole. The result of these measures and the simplification of the rules on second-hand leasing was that supply increased significantly, especially in regions with perhaps the greatest housing policy pressure, the highest growth and consequently the greatest need for this, i.e. the Stockholm region. In the City of Stockholm, for example, the supply increased by about 30 per cent during the first year of the reform. Thousands of apartments that were not previously available have been placed on the market. Once again, Mr President, what Sweden needs is not more rules that make it more difficult to rent out housing, but rather fewer rules and measures that make it easier to achieve more housing. In his reply, Mr President, which I have received from Mehmet Kaplan, he says that it is crucial that the rules give people an interest in renting out their homes when they are not used for some time. The Minister for Housing has also stated that it is absolutely crucial that the existing housing stock in Sweden is used much better than today, especially for those who are weakly rooted in the housing market. I have heard the alleged intention of the Minister for Housing, but I would like to know why it is not clear in the mission to the Investigator that any changes in legislation should not lead to fewer apartments being subletted and, Mr President, whether Mehmet Kaplan can guarantee this in accordance with previous promises.
i-49e881b9a43512e9-144	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mats Green, for this important interpellation, for we have an exceptional housing shortage in our country. It needs to be handled in many different ways. One of these ways is to invest in more housing, especially in the case of rental apartments, which are easy to access for young people and students as regards the lack of student housing. We also have a work going on where there are proposals on Parliament's table, and we have also just been told that our proposal on the management of the court order, in order to simplify it and cut the time for appeals, will be placed on Parliament's table, and there I know that we think equally, that we should continue to work to make it faster, easier and cheaper to build housing, thus a regulatory simplification work. But to get to where Mats Green left off, I wonder if Mats Green has completely missed the runaway second-hand rents, not least in the Stockholm area but also in other parts of the country. The statistics that we received the year after the change in regulation took place drew our attention to the fact that the supply increased instantaneously in Stockholm, Gothenburg and Malmö, and then turned around in Gothenburg and Malmö and showed a lower supply, despite the change in regulation. In the Stockholm area, the supply increased very much at first, and then went down and increased a little less. This is something that has been welcomed by us, that the existing stock can be better used. Nor can it have escaped anyone's view that those who get hurt in the secondary rental market are dependent on politicians who listen and understand what happens to them. We have a situation in the secondary rental market where young people are exploited and end up in major distresses. This is something that both I and Mats Green naturally find totally unacceptable. As a government representative, it is my job to listen to the signals that we receive and to find out the reasons behind the situation. Then it does not help – at least not if you sit in the government – to refer to statistics from a certainly important place but still a purchase-and-sale site, but it is important that the authority that has the expertise and the overall picture can find out what dies behind this type of reporting. In order for it not to be based on anecdotal data, it is even more important that we get good data. It is Mats Green and his party's servant of, and so is the government's servant. From our side, it is important that, when we take action, we base them on evidence that is actually fair. Therefore, a more comprehensive survey of the effects of the Private Rentals Act is ongoing, including regarding rental and supply levels. This screening and mapping will be presented on 30 October, i.e. at the end of this month. When it comes to part of the investigation that we have set up, the task is also to include Boverket's report on the matter.
i-49e881b9a43512e9-149	Mr President, I would like to The basic problem is that the government has initiated this because it had a demand for itself from the Left Party. This is a problem in itself, because the Left Party has not made a single proposal of its own for more housing for more people in Sweden. The only proposals that have been made are really proposals that make it difficult to build, lease out and buy homes in Sweden, and that is not really what we need to deal with the housing crisis. What we need is more housing for more people. Of course, we also welcome a good basis and good facts when it comes to subletting. It is also the case that much lies in the eye of the viewer. When describing that second-hand rents have exploded, remember that in Stockholm City they increased by 19 per cent in the first year and by 9 per cent last year, again based on the actor that the Minister of Housing himself touched on. However, if it is an explosion that rents increased by 19 percent in the first year, we can also note that it is not considered an explosion when the supply increased by 30 percent in the first year. This is not about getting more housing, it is really about making rental more difficult. But I understand that there is a demand here from the Left Party and that there is really no choice but to yield to this demand, even though it will strike at the whole country and, in particular, at the places of growth. Again, I have heard and understood the alleged intention of the Minister for Housing. But can the Minister of Housing stand up for the promise he has made in the past, that fewer apartments will not be sublet? And why is there no concrete task for the investigator to guarantee this in accordance with previous promises? I would like an answer to that.
i-49e881b9a43512e9-154	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Mats Green for further clarifications on the entry that he had in his first speech, namely that this interpellation debate is not really about safeguarding the possibility of renting out and of being a secondary tenant, but about trying to get some kind of discussion about whether or not the Left Party is influencing government policy. This is very interesting. It is possible that such a debate should perhaps be taken with the Left Party's spokesperson on housing policy in committee and not with the Minister responsible for ensuring that the secondary leasing market works well. As late as last May, we were in the Green Party and our partner in the government, the Social Democrats, with and voted through legislative changes for increased rental. It's action and not words. We did so in this House. Our view remains that second-hand leasing is an important element for more people to find a home and for the existing stock to be used more effectively. Secondary leasing is needed for the housing stock to function as intended but as it does not today and as it has not done, Mats Green, during the eight years that the Moderates had the main responsibility for government work. I therefore do not understand how Mats Green can bring this up as an extremely important part of a functioning housing market when we broadly agree in this area. On the other hand, we did not feel the same way about the changes that the moderate-led government pushed through in terms of the possibility for the homeowner to charge higher secondary rents and in terms of the reduced security for second-hand tenants. There we saw several problems and therefore voted against this in this House. Now that we are receiving strong signals from young people and students in particular about the negative effects of the changes, that is something that we must, of course, follow up. The role of the opposition politician is, of course, to highlight things that are perceived as maladministration or errors and changes in proposals that could lead to a better housing market. But it is also the role of the government, and it is my great and important task as a minister, to make sure that we understand what is happening and what is not happening in the housing market. Then we cannot take into account that it is anecdotal data or data from an important purchase and sales site. However, the authorities, who are experts in the field, must be given the opportunity to find out at a rapid pace what the facts of the case are. We will find out at the end of this month. This reading will be interesting. The authorities do not really take into account that it is I, i.e. the government, who has given the assignment or that it is a left-wing party or a moderate who has thought so or so. They look at the facts based on the reality of the housing market. I can therefore assure Mats Green of the reliability of Boverket – it is the same estates that existed during the last and the previous term of office as today, it is the same Director General and basically the same staff who are looking at these issues – and that we will have a good basis. It will serve this debate well, so that at least the breast tones can be sorted out.
i-49e881b9a43512e9-162	Mr President, I would like to Now the debate is not about the quality of Boverket. I don't think anyone's questioning it. I note that I do not receive an answer to my question if it is accepted that this may lead to fewer apartments being rented out. Mr President, I would like to Once again, it cannot be right for this government in the Swedish housing crisis to spend more time making it more difficult to build housing and making it more difficult to rent housing than it is devoted to ensuring that there is more housing. The only intention that is claimed to have for more housing is a contribution to the industry that nobody wants, which nobody has asked for and which no one believes will work either. Mr President, I would like to You have to be honest. It is clear that a government that also consists of the Green Party but which is also completely dependent on the Left Party may not be really the best to get more housing in Sweden. It is also a fact that the party represented by Minister Kaplan is the party that has opposed the most constructions, regardless of the political level involved. It has been about Sweden's municipalities, and it has been about measures here in the Swedish parliament. That it is the Green Party that is responsible for building more housing in Sweden, with all due respect, Minister, is a bit like putting an atheist on the bishop's bench. It's not gonna work. Stop devoting yourselves to taking measures that make renting out housing more difficult! Take action that will lead to more housing being built throughout Sweden for everyone! That is what politics should do. Stop commenting on housing! Start acting, Minister!
i-49e881b9a43512e9-168	Mr President, I would like to I could simply get into the pie throw that Mats Green sometimes does. Then I could list a number of municipalities, moderate-led ones, which in recent times have not really pinked the market by building more of the housing types that young people and students are asking for. But I am not going to do this because it is a relatively low level of debate. I will address Mats Green's two claims, namely that we as a government would make it more difficult to build and make it more difficult to rent out. The first claim was that we should make it more difficult to build housing. The proposals that we have put on Parliament's table, and those that are also coming, are those that have been welcomed by all those who build. It is about the order of the courts, where we remove the county boards when we appeal against detailed plans and where we make sure to cut up to six months. It is probably about much more in some cases and a little less in other cases. That is something that has been welcomed. I know the Moderates think it's good. It is therefore a little strange that Mats Green shakes his head like that would not be a good suggestion. We have got a noise regulation in place that makes it possible to build small dwellings in places where otherwise small dwellings are not built. I know that this is also something that has been welcomed and, moreover, has not really been in place during the eight years that the Moderates have led the work in the Government Office. The second claim was that we should make it more difficult to rent out. Mats Green then assumes that changed rules make it more difficult for renters and points out in advance possible regulatory changes as aggravating when an investigation based on Boverket's analysis will analyse the issues and suggest improvements. More stable rules can only provide security for those who want to move from one home to another or to another city. That is something we welcome.
i-49e881b9a43512e9-174	Mr President, I would like to Birger Lahti has asked me If I consider it appropriate for representatives of state-owned companies to sit on the boards of the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and its organisations and there, through opinion formation, actively oppose government policy If I consider it appropriate that the state companies pay between 30 and 50 million SEK per year in fees to the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise while the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise takes a stand on political issues that are contrary to the opinion of the owner, i.e. the state, If I consider it reasonable that state-owned companies, which work on behalf of the general public and should be impartial, through their membership in the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, challenge their owners on several political issues If I intend to draw up guidelines for the opinion formation of state-owned companies, like those of public authorities, in order to ensure that state-owned companies behave neutrally. I would like to start by saying that the companies with state ownership are a self-evident and important part of Swedish business. It is natural and good that the companies participate in social debate and development in various ways. That is something positive and of course. One way to do this is through industry organisations that drive important issues for different industries and for Swedish industry in general. Sometimes this is in line with the government's approach in this area and sometimes in line with other views. In several cases, state-owned companies have had a positive impact on the business community. The companies with state ownership are subject to the Companies Act (2005:551), as are the other Swedish limited liability companies. Governance of companies should not be confused with governance of authorities, which takes place primarily in accordance with the Administrative Act. According to the Swedish Companies Act, the Board of Directors is responsible for the company's organisation and management of its affairs and has, as well as the company's management, to ensure the company's best interests. It is the Board of Directors that appoints the company's CEO and makes the assessment of his or her other assignment. I can also say that everyone is free to join others for general and individual purposes within the framework of the rules of government governing freedom of association. The government places high demands on the companies with state ownership, not least in the area of sustainable entrepreneurship, and the companies must otherwise act in such a way that they enjoy public confidence. I am therefore assuming that representatives of the companies with state ownership put forward arguments and positions in the debate that are balanced and well-founded. In view of the above, I have no intention of taking any action on Birger Lahti's questions.
i-49e881b9a43512e9-183	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for Enterprise and Innovation for his answer. However, I am missing part of the answer, namely as regards the suitability of the 30 to 50 million. I asked the Minister how he sees it and whether it is appropriate to contribute that amount. As regards the list of how to look at what is appropriate to account, state-owned companies shall, as soon as they receive resources from the general account, disclose these, in accordance with the Act on Transparency of Certain Financial Relations. But when state-owned companies provide resources in the form of financial support for direct opinion formation, they can deny reporting of this, and the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise itself says that opinion formation is one of the cornerstones of their business. Therefore, I wonder a little bit why it is so secret with, for example, the sums or what they contribute to, when in the other direction it is really tough. The law is not so old; the minister knows when it came, who drove it through and the purpose of it. I am therefore curious about this. Why does one not see a problem with the fact that it is not first and foremost reported? I also think it important that state-owned companies should act exemplaryly and in such a way that they enjoy public confidence. I would like to ask whether the Minister sees no problem whatsoever when this discussion comes to light. He knows very well why I am reacting and which writings are the reason, but clearly the discussion is being conducted. Like the Minister for Enterprise and Innovation, I think it is important that we have confidence in the state companies and that they take part in the debate. However, there is a big difference when you are in an opinion formation against the owner's purpose, so to speak.
i-49e881b9a43512e9-187	Mr President, I would like to I thank Birger Lahti for clarifying and monitoring the issue of transparency and transparency. I have read ST's report, and they are actually proposing that the state-owned companies should leave the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise. However, if you skip it and go directly into the issue of transparency and transparency, it is a very important issue for me as Minister of Economic Affairs with responsibility for the state companies. I think that this report deals with the importance of transparency on membership, opinion formation – that you are open and clear about it – is a good thing to point out. I have high demands on state companies and expect them to act transparently and transparently, so I will have an ongoing dialogue with the companies that they are open with whether they are in different organisations and how they act for it. I think that is a wise point. On the other hand, the interpellation in general is challenging when it comes to being part of an industry organisation, and I would still like to take a stand on this. This government believes that social partners are important; we would like to see the partnership model strengthened in Sweden. Then it is important that the state companies can also participate, be collectively affiliated parties and maintain the party system. Industry organisations – as Birger Lahti knows – have important functions in today's labour market. They affect and improve the conditions for their members, and they can provide advice and support on employer issues. They assist employers in negotiations and court proceedings. It is important for all employers, including employers with state ownership, to be able to receive this support and help. You can sometimes work with industry-specific issues but sometimes also with broad questions. That's where I choose to be clear in my interpellation response. I don't think we can be as strong as the opinion police, linked to the state companies. Should I, as Minister for Enterprise, choose to be that, I could also choose to listen when the companies want to be a driver on any issue. I know that the state companies are involved in initiatives other than the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise. For example, we have a number of state-owned companies that are part of the Haga initiative. I do not know if Birger Lahti has met them, but it is an initiative with companies that want to go further in the transformation of the energy system and with sustainability issues in their companies. They have set very high climate policy objectives, which go beyond the climate policy objectives of Sweden decided by the Riksdag. It includes both Sveaskog and Green Cargo as two state-owned companies. I also noted that Swedavia, the public airport company, has collaborated with several of the airlines. They have a goal of fossil-free domestic aviation in 2030. It's actually nothing the Riksdag has decided on, but Swedavia is still acting as a platform – together with the airlines – to see what can be done to further speed up the process of renewable energy linked to the aviation industry. So you have to be a little careful when you say that the state companies in their areas should not be able to participate in the public debate and actually present factual views on how to move forward. Sometimes it is convenient for a government to get support from the state companies, but sometimes the companies can say something the government may not appreciate. Therefore, I think that one should be careful to say that state-owned companies must never have an idea of the development of their market or how the business should be conducted. However, they shall do so exemplaryly, and they shall enjoy the confidence of the public. Therefore, there is a great responsibility on the board and management of the state companies to take it into consideration.
i-49e881b9a43512e9-196	Mr President, I would like to I hope that what the Minister has just said is included in cases where state-owned companies have a positive impact on the business community. I hope that was part of it.
i-49e881b9a43512e9-197	I agree. I have also trudged over to Storgatan 19 a few times, when the Minister has sat on the other side of the table in negotiations on salaries. I agree that there should be an organisation that has an umbrella, but it is the opinion formation that I react to – that you participate financially and actively in an opinion formation against visions and visions that the owner has. That's what I see as problematic. I agree that there is a positive part, that is, that there are other organisations that do not have that agenda. When, five years ago, the bourgeois government developed clear principles for the state authorities and their information, they would not conduct opinion formation, and I think that is a good thing. I'm sure there's a good thing about it. It is the suitability of government companies to participate in opinion formation that I mainly react to.
i-49e881b9a43512e9-200	Mr President, I would like to In conclusion, I would just like to thank you for the interpellation. But I would also like to thank ST for having written the report because it raises a number of fundamental issues, not least issues relating to transparency and transparency. I think we have something to learn from this discussion. If you choose to be part of an organisation you should be open with it, explain the purpose of it but also be able to account for example what costs it entails. I believe that transparency and transparency are important. Then, like Birger Lahti, I believe that the industry organisations are important for the partnership model in Sweden and can also be a support for state-owned companies. Should it turn out that some industry organisation becomes very active in some form of campaign organisation and runs a campaign very aggressively, I assume that the boards of state companies will pull their ears and say: This is not a context in which we want to be involved, for we shall enjoy public confidence and ensure that we have confidence from the public. I would like to thank you for the interpellation, Mr President.
i-49e881b9a43512e9-204	Mr President, I would like to I can't help but paint a scenario, a fiction, for the minister. Suppose we as a state own a company with a sawmill and some industries and that the government gets a giant idea of building a further processing industry that builds housing very cheaply. You know when you go into this process that okay, the saw will go a little worse over a number of years. They have a CEO at the sawmill or in the further processing industry that is clockwise, and it has gone well. But you have an idea that you should build housing cheap now. What's going on? Well, the CEO of the sawmill or industry is starting to work against the further processing industry and says: We are making less money from the sawmill now. This is not good. Then even flyers are distributed locally and said that this is an experimental workshop, and we make less money from the saw. However, the owner has the idea that if you work like this it will be better for the city, for society and for the industry in the long term, but the CEO has not adopted the owner's idea. Wouldn't the Minister react to this in any way?
i-49e881b9a43512e9-206	Mr President, I would like to As a representative of the state, I am in the ownership dialogue with the state companies very clear with what expectations we have of them. If, for example, the Riksdag has decided that they should be run commercially or that they even have a social mission, which means that they will bring about a social change, that is exactly what we follow up with the board in our ownership dialogues. Should it turn out that a state-owned company completely ignores the directives that exist for the owner's and the state's mandate, there is always the possibility of replacing the board of directors in the ultimate case, because it is the board that is responsible for the operation. The ownership dialogue will continue, and we will follow the companies very closely. But I feel that the state companies usually try to act on what they think is the company's best and that they participate in the social debate from that perspective. Sometimes they will say things like Birger Lahti and I love to hear, and sometimes they may say something that we don't think was very gifted. But then we assume again that they are acting for the company's good and that they are based on the common good, because it is a state-owned company that is ultimately owned by the Swedish people. If we become too many police officers, I am afraid that we will have a situation in which, for example, a change of government will decide which organisations state companies may cooperate with or not. You're supposed to be a little careful about that. In order to enjoy confidence, trust must also be earned, and state companies must do so.
i-49e881b9a43512e9-209	Mr President, I would like to AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson has asked me how I and the government intend to anchor in Parliament the sale of the assets of Vattenfall affected by the sale process, if Vattenfall finds a buyer and goes on to sell. The Board of Directors of Vattenfall AB has taken the initiative to investigate various possibilities to create a new ownership structure for lignite operations. As stated in the interpellation, the company has now offered these assets to the market. The process of a new ownership structure for lignite operations is conducted by Vattenfall and is a responsibility for the company's board and management. As a representative of the owner, I will keep myself closely informed about the process, on the basis of actively managing the state's ownership in Vattenfall so that the long-term value development is the best possible and the company reaches its sustainability goals. If and when it becomes appropriate for Vattenfall to carry out a large-value divestment, it is reasonable for the company's board to take the initiative for so-called ownership coordination. This means an exchange of information and views in order to reach positions on issues of crucial importance that both the board and the owner can support. Owner coordination takes place with the responsible minister on behalf of the owner, and it is reasonable that we inform the relevant committees of the Riksdag in connection with this.
i-49e881b9a43512e9-212	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for Industry for his answer. Last spring, in an interpellation debate, the Minister for Economic Affairs said that it was too early to answer whether the Riksdag was part of the process that will be on the table at a decision and that the company has decided to investigate various possibilities to create a new ownership structure for lignite business until decisions have been made and something new happens. And that's about the same thing today. The Minister of Industry then also said that he thought that the issue would be discussed again, as it does and will do, if it were to be considered that Vattenfall's board would come back with the result of the probes in the face of a changed ownership structure. On 22 September, Vattenfall announced, via a press release, that they will take further steps in the process of selling German lignite – this as a step in changing the energy portfolio. The intention is to sell mining and production assets in Germany, was announced. In this context, however, we have come a long way from last spring with sales, even if we do not reach buyers. Even if it's not clear that there's a deal or that there's an exact buyer that's up to date, a deal isn't a deal until you know it's a deal – to bring this up by speculating. Having said that, I would like to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs whether he and the government have now come to the fore with clarity about the regulations, whether it states that the government should go to Parliament and whether the possible future situation, i.e. sales, requires or does not require that one do so. This question can be illustrated on the basis of examples of case description, regardless of business or not. It says: According to the government's ownership policy, the government should turn to the Riksdag for decisions concerning state-owned companies if this involves significant changes in the operations. I imagine that lawyers are working for the government and that you are doing an analysis on the basis of which routes you have to go and that you have also made the assessment that such a major change as the business Vattenfall is planning with the sale of lignite operations in Germany is or is not in a situation where there is a government coming to Parliament. The question is how to interpret it. The Minister for Economic Affairs also says in his reply that if a business is involved, the relevant committees of the Riksdag will be informed. In what way, then, does the Minister of Economic Affairs envisage the information being provided? Is it sales information only to committees, mentioned in the answer, or is it more? Or is it the case that the Minister also refers to a process in which the House is informed of such a decision? If so, how does it become the greatest representative of the people? I have a further question on the subject of the analysis of possible paths and on the legal assessments based on the positions of your government partner, the Environment Party. It has emerged from the social debate that the Green Party wants to retain activity but says that they do not have the majority in this House for it. How does this make sense? In view of this, the question follows whether Mikael Damberg as the minister responsible has come to the conclusion that coal mining can continue in such a general meeting decision.
i-49e881b9a43512e9-223	Mr President, I would like to Vattenfall is a very important state-owned company but also a company with a very clear mission to be one of the leading companies in the energy transition and act market-wise. This is important both for Sweden and for operations internationally. The business expanded quite clearly during the previous S-government with the support of the Green Party more than ten years ago, and so it has continued under the alliance government with the purchase of various activities – nuclear, coal, but also gas power – in different countries. We can also see that there is a major transformation of the European energy markets right now affecting Vattenfall as well as all other players in the energy markets in Europe. A few years ago, a review of Vattenfall's operations and a division of the company into a Nordic and a European part began. On various occasions, including in this House, Mr President, at Question Time and other times, the question has been raised about Vattenfall's German lignite activities. I am not going to raise a discussion about price, who can buy and which country is at issue, because I think the Minister for Economic Affairs is right to say that this is speculative and not politically relevant in the discussion here and now. However, there are a number of important questions of form, as Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar has also pointed out in her interpellation, which goes back to our laws and the regulation between the duties of the Riksdag and the Government: The Government governs the kingdom and manages the administration of state companies, but there are also some threads and links to the Riksdag as the main representative of the people. Mr President, I would like to There are at least three interesting questions to ask about Vattenfall's lignite business. The first is also Ann-Ann-Charlotte Hammar: Is this possible change so extensive that it would require Parliament's approval? Mikael Damberg suggests that it is not, because he is talking about informing. Should I interpret it as meaning that the Government and the Government make the legal assessment that this change is not so extensive that it requires the approval of the Riksdag? The second question is about how the Riksdag will then be informed and the decision anchored. AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar asked a number of questions about this. The third question, which is quite important in this context, is: What is the government's governance margin for this company? For example, the government can change the number of people on the board in Vattenfall and other state-owned companies. A number of board members have already been replaced. You could give them a directive and make a decision at a general meeting and say that the company should conduct a certain type of business or not do other things without it requiring a turn of parliament. Mr President, I would like to In the debate, it has been argued that the government could not choose to retain lignite and take a completely different approach. It has been referred to the parliamentary situation and the majority position and speculated that there is no support for changing Vattenfall's mandate. I do not share this view and therefore think it is important to ask Minister Damberg how he views it. Let us assume that the government would like to make the strategic choice of keeping the German lignite business in order to close down later. Does the Government share the view that the government has this possibility if only the will exists?
i-49e881b9a43512e9-232	Mr President, I would like to A number of questions are asked in the interpellation and in the ensuing debate. Those who listen to the debate and have not heard about it before should be made clear that what we are discussing is that there are differences between the roles here. It is an important state company that has large assets that we in Sweden certainly own together, but in this case it is the board and management of the company that has a responsibility in this part of the process. The company has announced that it is reviewing the ownership structure of the German lignite business, which the government has welcomed. The government and the political system will only be seriously involved in the process if sales are made. If the company says that it wants to carry out a sale that is extensive and affects the company to a large extent, it is required, according to the directives that exist, for the board to take the initiative for ownership coordination. This is done with the Government and signed as the Government's Minister for Corporate Governance, and it is important that it is done in writing. We have tightened this up in the current regulatory framework. In the past, it was unclear how ownership coordination would be called for and what would be included. It became clear not least after the Nuon deal, where it is still not clear who knew what and who made the decision in a deal that has so far cost taxpayers SEK 52 billion in impairments. We cannot have such a situation again. State-owned companies that do large deals that affect their operations shall be subject to ownership control. Then it is the responsibility of the Board of Directors to come to us and the Government's responsibility to respond in such ownership coordination. That's the formality.
i-49e881b9a43512e9-239	If the company is going to change the direction of its operations, the Riksdag shall decide on this, in accordance with the existing regulations. If we decide that Vattenfall should no longer carry out business activities but have a community assignment aimed at doing A or B and thus want to change the direction of Vattenfall's business idea, it must be subject to parliamentary treatment. If, on the other hand, there is a big deal going on, which affects large values, it is the Board's responsibility to make ownership coordination. It's happening to the government. Here I want to be open and transparent in order to avoid the situation we ended up in with the Nuon scandal. Communication should be written and clear to posterity. In the event of ownership coordination, I would also like to have an information opportunity with the Committee on Economic Affairs. I have told the Committee on Economic Affairs. I believe that in previous interpellation debates I have also said that this is how I believe it should be conducted in order to clarify how such a process actually takes place. Will the whole Parliament discuss this issue? I'm sure of it. This is not the last time I'm talking about Vattenfall in the speaker's chair. This will happen many times in the future because it is a large and important company and there are major issues under discussion. I am sure that Vattenfall's future direction and future will be discussed in interpellation debates, in Question Time and other matters. I will come back to the issue of governance in the next speech.
i-49e881b9a43512e9-244	Mr President, I would like to Let me start with the Nuon deal because it came up. During that government, papers were requested on how it was done. The media didn't find a single piece of paper, and the government was going to hand them out. This means that oral agreements were made before the alliance government. More could be desired from the process, but there have been many steps forward. It has gone from oral agreements during the time of the Swedish Government Persson to new ethical and moral rules for this. Mikael Damberg says in his reply that, as a representative of the owner, he will keep himself closely informed about the process of managing the long-term value development so that it will be the best possible and reach its sustainability goals. We had a debate on 27 August about another company, Telia Sonera. The Minister then concluded by saying that the question of whether to remain on or leave a market is ultimately about managing the assets responsibly so that the Swedish people are managed in a good way. ..................................................... There are a number of factors to be taken into account. Lars Helmered was also looking at what is happening in a situation where it is decided to maintain coal power in Germany. Vattenfall has since 2010 been commissioned by the Riksdag to conduct energy business in such a way that the company leads the development towards environmentally sustainable energy production. This means that the Government, as owner in its governance of Vattenfall, shall not take any measures that are contrary to the parliamentary mandate that Vattenfall should be and act in a commercial manner. How do the Minister and the lawyers see that there can be a situation and a situation where the lignite business cannot be sold? Then the government needs to take a stand on commercialism. Is there a situation in which one may feel compelled to keep this activity?
i-49e881b9a43512e9-251	Mr President, I would like to I thought I'd catch up on a couple of things. The first is that a wise process is important. The Damberg Government points to the importance of a structured and good process. It is wise and good that there have been intensifications since time immemorial. The second is that Minister Damberg, who is responsible for these matters, signs a firm for the entire government and assumes that this is what applies. However, the rest of us sometimes encounter nuances in the opinion of various government representatives about what is feasible and possible. It's the light of what you're supposed to see my questions. In my first speech, I raised three specific questions. The first was whether Minister Damberg believes that the Riksdag must be involved in making a decision. I take the answer as a no according to that assessment he and the government are making right now. The second question was whether one intends to anchor this wisely both informally and formally, through the Riksdag's Committee on Economic Affairs and in other ways. That suggests that you should. There is still the third and final question on which I would like to hang this. In the debate, it has been brought forward from government representatives that, although the government would like to see the German lignite business maintained under the auspices of Vattenfall, it is not possible to do so because the mission that Vattenfall has been decided upon in Parliament makes this impossible. This is what I question a little. The Government can replace the Board members. It could give guidance or make a decision at an extraordinary general meeting from the owner of the Ministry of Industry. It could say, for example, that Vattenfall will carry out German lignite activities. I would therefore like to repeat the question. Does Minister Damberg consider that if the government wishes and wishes, can it be decided to retain Vattenfall's mission to retain the German lignite business?
i-49e881b9a43512e9-258	Mr President, I would like to This is a bit like a theoretical experiment. We play with all the different possible outcomes, and then we'll talk about what we can do and what we can't do. It is a legal exercise that I think it is a challenge for the audience to keep up with. The first is that the government must go to Parliament if we are to change the mission for Vattenfall. This means that we must go to Parliament if we decide to steer Vattenfall in a direction that is not commercial. Can we know today that the Vattenfall Board does not decide after that process: there is no buyer, we retain coal power? Of course it can happen. Vattenfall's board may get such a bad offer that it decides: We retain coal power. It is not a question on the table at all. The Moderates ask the question, suggesting: Can the government govern the company in a way that is not in accordance with the Parliament's mandate? No, we can't do that. Is it possible to reconcile commercialism with sustainability? Yeah, you can do that. It is possible to work wisely with investments for more of renewables. We have tried to strengthen the competence of the Board of Directors for Vattenfall with two additional Board members who have a huge competence, not least in sustainability issues. We see that the energy market has changed a great deal. We want the company to be the leader in the transformation of the energy system. We want to move towards 100% renewable energy. With this strategy in mind, you must have competence in the company, be able to make sensible balances and be able to see what is best for the company in the long term. Should it be the case that a government decides to govern the company in a way that is not in accordance with Parliament's decided mandate, it must go to the Riksdag. That is what I have tried to answer on several occasions.
i-49e881b9a43512e9-265	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister. The minister began by saying no to going to Parliament here and now. At least that's how Lars Helmered and I interpreted it. Then there is the business and the outside world. I forgot in my last speech to say this about Nuon. Things happened on the world market that made gas prices completely different. Now you see different possibilities. You might call it playing with different theories. But you still have to consider and think about: A happens or A doesn't happen, it's B. If B doesn't happen, it'll be C. Such calculations must be made as a government and also as a company. I will come to Parliament if there is a bad offer," says the Minister. When is that a bad offer, can one ask? We can speculate about that again. The government has the opportunity to say things within the framework of its commercial nature, I think. It can say: You should do this from the point of view of either getting too low a price or having to keep a business. What is your wish? What do you want to do? What do you think of this?
i-49e881b9a43512e9-270	Mr President, I would like to I can see that I am not clear enough in my answers because the questions I get still do not really reflect what I am trying to say. What I'm saying is that lignite is part of Vattenfall's business today, right? This means that, within the framework of the assignment that Vattenfall has today, it is not automatic so that if Vattenfall's board does not find a buyer e and it does not become a deal, we must go to the Riksdag and change the assignment for Vattenfall, no. It is another way if the government were to decide on its own: We are moving away from commercialism in Vattenfall. We want you to only deal with solar cells in the future, because we think it is politically correct to only work with solar cells. Then Vattenfall's board could argue: It is not business-wise. It could say to us: it is not correct, because it is not our mission. It will then be a discussion. Have we in the government violated our authority as owner and representative of the owner? It is about when we have to change the direction of the mission and give clear directives that they should depart from commercialism. It's about such situations. There have been discussions about giving away the assets. Our lawyers make the assessment that we cannot give away the state's assets without abandoning commercialism. On the other hand, within the framework of a business assignment for Vattenfall, there are great opportunities to make sensible future investments for 100% renewable energy sources. Vattenfall says both to the Committee on Economic Affairs and to me when I meet them: Our new investments are 100% in renewable energy sources. That's how we want to position the company in the future. This is how we see that the future market is affecting and where we have the greatest potential to achieve returns in the future. It is possible to reconcile political perceptions and objectives of business-related activities. If we want to move away from that, we have to go to Parliament, not otherwise.
i-49e881b9a43512e9-276	Mr President, I would like to Anders Åkesson has asked me how I intend to work to reduce the share of land transport in Swedavia's climate impact in general, and for Arlanda Airport in particular, and how I intend to act to clarify the state-designed incentive conflict for Swedavia, which means that the economy and the environment are being put against each other. According to the Articles of Association, Swedavia AB will own, operate and develop the ten airports that form the national base offering in Sweden. In addition, the Riksdag has given Swedavia a special social mission, namely to contribute to the achievement of transport policy objectives. The overall transport policy objective is to ensure a socially efficient and sustainable transport supply for citizens and businesses throughout the country. There is also a functional objective and one which addresses, among other things, the aspects of accessibility and safety, the environment and health. As one of the company's consideration objectives, the carbon footprint of the company's airports is measured and reported according to its own operations, air traffic and ground transport to and from the respective airport. An important challenge for the government and the company is to reduce CO2 emissions from all road transport to and from Arlanda and other airports. Therefore, the government continues to work to make it attractive and easy to travel collectively to the country's airports. It is now possible to take high-speed trains, long-distance trains and commuter trains to Arlanda Airport. From 2009 to the last quarter of 2014, the share of collective travel increased from 45 to 50 per cent. In accordance with the Government's requirements, Swedavia's Board has set strategic sustainability goals, one of which is to achieve zero emissions of fossil carbon dioxide from its own operations in 2020. At present emissions are falling faster than the company's own plan, and the ten of Swedavia's airports included in the national base range are certified at the highest level of Airport Carbon Accreditation (ACA), an international standard for airport climate work. I note that Swedavia is actively working to reduce the climate impact associated with airports.
i-49e881b9a43512e9-283	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the answer, Mikael Damberg! In my interpellation I mainly raise the risk of the conflict I consider to be between incentives for the state-owned company Swedavia. It is important to reduce the impact of climate change. I share the Minister's view that the company does so in many different ways. But at the same time, it's a matter of making money. It is therefore a question of the conflict between environmental objectives and being a profitable and well-managed state company. Swedavia's mission from the state includes running the business. At the same time, the company will continuously reduce its own environmental footprint and contribute to a reduction in the overall environmental impact of the entire aviation industry. The biggest emission item comes from aviation itself if we are talking about carbon dioxide. However, land transport to and from an airport also accounts for a significant part of the total environmental impact of the airport. In the case of Arlanda, the country's largest airport, land transport to and from Arlanda generated emissions equivalent to 110 000 tonnes of carbon dioxide last year. This represents just over 40 per cent of the total emissions of the airport. Mr President, I would like to In the case of Arlanda, therefore, ground transport is an almost as great a challenge as the core business of air traffic in terms of climate load. In the case of Arlanda, as the Minister points out, there are good conditions for both trains and buses to travel collectively from and to the airport in front of using the car. Actually, the conditions are brilliant in Arlanda's case to meet the climate commitment it has made and also the zero impact it has set itself. But so it was with the risk of incentive conflict in the mission that we have given to the state Swedavia. It is about the revenue from Arlanda parking, which is owned by Swedavia. They are an important revenue in the business. Well-filled parking lots risk resisting environmental benefits with reduced car traffic to and from Arlanda, the Government. I believe that we, as owners of Swedavia, need to sort out the company's priorities. Otherwise, we risk a situation where a passenger who comes by public transport to Arlanda is rather less valuable than a passenger who drives his own car to the airport. Therefore, I would like to repeat my initial questions to the Government: How does the Government intend to work to reduce the share of land transport in Swedavia's climate impact in general and for Arlanda Airport in particular? Can the Government in particular deepen the answer to question 2: How does the Government intend to act to eliminate the risk of an incentive conflict in which the economy and the environment are opposed to each other for the company Swedavia?
i-49e881b9a43512e9-291	Mr President, I would like to I thank Anders Åkesson because he gives me the opportunity to praise a state-owned company. I think Swedavia is working hard on her sustainability work. Swedavia is currently working on a climate work along the whole journey – from increased public transport at airports to renewable aviation fuels and with the goal of zero emissions from its own operations by 2020. It is ambitious, and it is also one of the reasons why all airports are included and accredited at the highest environmental level internationally. This is unusual; there are not so many airports globally that come up with the standard that Swedavia airports are at today. I will answer the parking question very soon, but I would first like to say something about what is being done today with its own business and which is impressive. Today, Swedavia's fleet of vehicles – vehicles that clear runways and more so that traffic can function – is responsible for 92 percent of the Group's remaining emissions of fossil carbon dioxide. As part of this, Swedavia is now replacing all snow clearance vehicles with biofuel-powered equivalents. It is a unique example internationally where Swedavia really is a leader and does this earlier than many others. Swedavia has also worked purposefully for many years to make sure that public transport to Arlanda, in particular, works better. Today there are several possibilities to get to Arlanda also collectively, not least by train and commuter trains that have opened up new opportunities to travel to Arlanda without releasing carbon dioxide in the way that has been the case in the past. I think it is a positive development, and it is moving in the right direction. Another point I should like to make concerns the taxis, where Swedavia has chosen to control the taxi business in such a way that environmental cars are rewarded at Arlanda. Moreover, there is no charge for bus and coach services, which means that this type of service is economically advantageous. The airport has won awards internationally for this work to increase collective travel. The train has gained market share and created a positive development over the years. As far as the parking issue is concerned, there are of course many people who today drive a car to Arlanda and put the car there. Today, therefore, the price of parking at the airport is in parity with the one in Stockholm city centre. It is a conscious choice made by Swedavia to have a high parking fee at Arlanda. You want it to always be the collective choice to go to Arlanda Airport that is cheaper. In all these areas, I would like to say that Swedavia is working purposefully with a strategy that is about changing the business in a sustainable direction. The issue of collective travel to and from Arlanda is definitely one of the key factors for Swedavia to achieve its own environmental objectives.
i-49e881b9a43512e9-297	Mr President, I would like to Once again, I thank Mikael Damberg for his reply. Basically, there is no problem with either car or aircraft; it is their emissions and environmental impact that are the concern. I think we are both lovers of flights as a rational means of transport in terms of overcoming long distances. I share the Government's view that Swedavia is a good company and that aviation as a transport mode is generally well placed to change and reduce its environmental impact. We fully agree on that, Minister. Like I said, we're both flight friends. However, I would like to reiterate the question of the incentive that we from the ownership side have created against Swedavia. It is true that the parking prices out at Arlanda are in parity with those in Stockholm's inner city. But right now they are being discounted by 70 percent, and that, after all, signals something else. I repeat the basis of my interpellation and the basis of the question: the conflict that Swedavia reasonably experiences between reducing the climate impact of biofuel powered snow clearance vehicles etc. and at the same time making money, where revenue from Arlanda's parking spaces owned by Swedavia is important in the business. Well-filled parking lots are at risk of resisting environmental benefits. A passenger arriving by car will be more worth business to Swedavia than one who uses the excellent public transport system that we have jointly created by train and bus to and from Arlanda. I would like to reiterate the question of the conflict of interest in the incentives we have given to the company.
i-49e881b9a43512e9-301	Mr President, I would like to The issue of the conflict can be described in many ways. On a larger level, it is usually discussed in environmental policy as a whole. Is there a conflict between economic growth and environmental policy? There are those who argue that there is always a conflict and that it is impossible to achieve economic development when making greater environmental investments. Sweden has shown history that we have been able to reduce carbon dioxide emissions while at the same time having had economic growth in the economy. Not many developed economies have succeeded in what Sweden has done. It is incredibly important that Swedavia is an economically profitable company. This is a company that works in a market and also conducts an internationally competitive business, not least to get direct routes to Sweden, in a sharp competition with Copenhagen, Oslo and Helsinki to conduct an activity that is attractive for airlines to fly on. There is, therefore, a fundamental commercial nature. I have to say that Swedavia works very purposefully with its sustainability goals. They have a strategy where one of the goals that the company has stated is that it should be cheaper to choose public transport than to take the car to Arlanda. I know that Swedavia has had some creative designs for this. It wanted to introduce car tariffs for a while, but, as we know, under the current legislation, it is not possible for them to introduce separate car tariffs there. Swedavia has thus tried different ways to control traffic. There's another conflict. Now we are very much into the details, but when you get to read on before a debate you always learn new things: An excessively high price level in the parking lot means that the proportion of travellers who get picked up and left at Arlanda by private motorists is also increasing. Today, 16 percent of the travel to and from Arlanda is done with other cars. It is important to make the whole system work so that collective travel is cheaper than private travel and that it is stimulated in different ways. I feel that at the speed that Swedavia has on environmental work and in order to reduce CO2 emissions, I have not yet seen an imminent risk of these issues coming into great conflict with each other. But it is clear that you must always be vigilant, because there is not enough money for everything and you have to make economic balances. But my picture of Swedavia's operations is that these issues are given high priority and that it is part of the profile you want not least Arlanda to have as an airport at the forefront when it comes to taking sustainability issues seriously.
i-49e881b9a43512e9-306	Mr President, I would like to Basically, we fully agree that it is possible and even necessary to reconcile economic growth with environmental considerations, because economic growth is almost always based on economic, environmental and social considerations. That is exactly what we are talking about, and everything else is not really sustainable growth. But this in turn presupposes giving the business the right incentives where it is possible to combine growth under the three sustainability criteria. Then in my eyes the mission appears if we have given Swedavia to take environmental considerations and at the same time be particularly business-like regarding its parking operations possibly as difficult to fill. I feel a sense of participation in it because I know that it is not a new mission that has been given. Mr President, I would like to After this debate in which the Government has been given occasion and the opportunity to go further into the matter, I feel very confident that the Government will follow the matter in a very interesting way and will certainly also endorse both creative and wise solutions for Swedavia, which I think is basically a good company.
i-49e881b9a43512e9-308	Mr President, I would like to I would like to conclude by thanking Anders Åkesson for this interpellation, which has given me new knowledge of the matter. I am absolutely convinced that we will both follow Swedavia's work in this area. When I ask Swedavia questions, they are clear that they have this direction. One wants to increase the share of collective travel to and from Arlanda, and one wants to see Arlanda as an even stronger hub for not least rail traffic, because it is very good for the long term for the airport.
i-49e881b9a43512e9-310	Mr President, I would like to Helena Lindahl has asked me, in the light of the financing inquiry's proposals, how this caters for risk capital throughout the country and whether I support the investigation's proposal that the company Inlandsinnovation should cease and how I see that under-funds in the new structure can be geographically oriented. Initially, I would like to say that there is very strong support for the direction of change proposed in the investigation. Both the majority of consultation bodies and the Swedish National Audit Office support the principle of reducing the lock-in of state venture capital in long-term defined investment mandates in order to thus increase the flexibility, degree of utilisation and adjustment of needs in the system. In the 2016 budget proposal, the Government has stated that structural changes are being implemented in accordance with the investigation's proposal, that a national fund-in-fund company is formed and that Inlandsinnovation AB and Fouriertransform AB are organised into the new company. More detailed proposals on how the establishment will take place and how these organisations will be managed in the new structure, we will return to the Riksdag with. A clear starting point is that existing holdings will be managed and developed responsibly within the framework of the new structure. With regard to the proposed new structure, I have encountered a concern that the supply of venture capital for companies in northern Sweden will be reduced. This is a concern and a perspective we take very seriously. However, it is my absolute belief that overall funding opportunities for companies in the region should not be impaired in the implementation of the proposals of the Financing Investigation. Venture capital investments will also be made in the region within the framework of the new national company. In addition, the supply of risk capital in northern Sweden will be strengthened in the new programming period with the EU Regional Development Fund. Furthermore, it is important to see the proposal in its context. The government has an ambitious reform agenda with several measures aimed at strengthening the financing opportunities for SMEs across the country. Several of the initiatives announced in the budget bill bring improvements, not least for companies in northern Sweden. The Government intends, inter alia, to review the possibility of establishing, in accordance with the investigation's proposal, a loan guarantee instrument to increase bank lending to small and medium-sized enterprises. The banks' ability to lend to companies with low levels of security is expected to increase. The core of the proposal for a new structure and approach is to remove permanent lock-in in investment mandates and to work through private investors to ensure good investment skills and exchange of state resources. In this way, we create opportunities for exibility and need adaptation and contribute to increased volumes of venture capital and to strengthening the private market and financial ecosystem – i.e. to the benefit of companies in need of development capital. At the same time, the new approach will continue to have influence over the choice of investment areas based on the market-supplementary needs that are deemed to exist. To achieve our high objectives of employment and growth, improved development conditions are needed. This is one of several proposals aimed at strengthening the financing opportunities for companies throughout our country.
i-49e881b9a43512e9-318	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister for Economic Affairs, for your answer. Northern Sweden, Värmland and Dalarna contribute, as the Minister knows, to a large part of Sweden's economy. In Norrland, for example, thousands of people work to produce iron ore for bridges and railway rails and also for buildings all over the world. Most people probably understand that a growing mining industry has the opportunity to turn decommissioning into development. Of course, it affects local communities through new businesses and new jobs. Only Norrbotten County alone accounts for 90 per cent of the iron ore produced in the EU. The forestry industry is another important part of Sweden's basic industries. What many may not know is that the forest industry in our country is the world's second largest exporter of forest products such as pulp, paper and sawn timber. The forestry industry is also the largest producer and consumer of biofuels in Sweden. Hydropower accounts for almost half of all electricity production in Sweden. The largest Swedish hydropower plants are located in upper Norrland. Last year, tourism, which we can also see as a growing and large basic industry, had a turnover of SEK 268.5 billion. Of course, it contributed to a large part of new jobs, not least in northern Sweden, Värmland and Dalarna. I am saying this because I would like to point out that enormous values are being created in these parts of the country, which also contribute to Sweden's economy. That is why I am concerned about the investigation into state venture capital that proposes the disappearance of Inland innovation, a venture capital company. In practice, the company was created about four years ago and received 2 000 million in the portfolio to assist Norrlandslänen, Värmland and Dalarna with venture capital, especially in expansive stages where larger economic muscles would be needed. The areas I'm talking about are some of the most vulnerable parts of the country in terms of venture capital, so it wasn't exactly a coincidence that the funds were added to this fund and established in these particular areas. When I read the Minister's reply, I am concerned because the Minister is buying the proposal to close Inland innovation and that these funds, i.e. 2 000 million, should be smudged across the country. The Minister says, "But it is my absolute belief that overall financing opportunities for companies in the region should not be impaired in the implementation of the proposals of the Financing Investigation. What does the Minister mean by this? What is the basis of the Minister's assumption when he so clearly says, my absolute opinion? Now I expect the Minister to explain and describe what he means and what it will be like.
i-49e881b9a43512e9-325	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Helena Lindahl, for the interpellation! This is an important issue, because the structure and functioning of state venture capital have been discussed in, I believe, almost ten years. There have been several evaluations of state risk capital which have shown that state venture capital, as it has been organised in the past, has not paid enough and has not created the growth that it was intended for the growing companies. A major criticism has been that state venture capital has gone in too late, that it has not worked early where there is no private capital and has not really contributed to getting more capital. A leverage effect on state capital may arise if the State enters sectors or areas where private capital does not exist and provides incentives for private capital to get there. Then the amount of capital increases. One of the points of the entire fund-in-fund system, as the Finance Investigation suggests, is that the state never goes in alone with money, but changes up the mass of capital together with private capital. It's one of the parts. One explanation for the fact that state venture capital has become somewhat inefficient, that it has not worked in this way and that quite a lot of state capital has been locked in, is that there have been different regional but also area-specific divisions of capital. As a result, capital has not worked as much as it should. I understand that there has been a broad political consensus in the Swedish Parliament that we must try to get away from it. More state capital will work faster and more actively but also in earlier phases and be able to exchange up private capital. When I talk about the regional policy aspect, I mean – I have the same view as Helena Lindahl – that one of the challenges for Sweden is to create the best growth opportunities for small and medium-sized enterprises throughout the country as well. Around Sweden we have a number of large industries that play a huge role. And the centre of gravity of industry is not in the big cities. The industry's focus is on Sweden and contributes to the growth of our country, not least to our exports and energy supply, which Helena had previously mentioned. But one of the proposals in the Financing Investigation, which we are now working on, is about how to increase bank lending to small and medium-sized enterprises. Since the financial crisis, small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), especially in rural areas, have found it more difficult to obtain capital. It is not just about venture capital but also about loan capital. The investigation has some suggestions. But we are also looking at consultation points that have come in on how to work to switch up so that there will be more lending to companies that need it, especially where the supply masses are more uncertain, especially in rural areas where the supply masses are not as much worth. D the fund proposed by the Finance Committee means by far the most to the bioenergy area. The big brake on the development of bioenergy, which means a lot to the countryside, is about how to get to the really large facilities to get volume and be able to squeeze the price so that it becomes competitive. The proposal on angel investment, the microphone in the proposal, involves pooling capital with regional capital, where perhaps there are business angels. I have visited them in both Norrbotten and Umeå, where you have business angels. They go in, often together with a science park and others, and support small and medium-sized enterprises. Here the state can go in and match capital, to exchange it up. Several different parts of the proposal are therefore about bringing out decision-making rights but also capital throughout Sweden. It would also benefit northern Sweden.
i-49e881b9a43512e9-337	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister. A lot of things in the investigation that you're listing are very good. So I'm not critical of the entire investigation. What I am critical of is that you take the 2 billion from a company that has now started to operate and that makes a difference in those parts of the country. Inland innovation came about because we do not have enough venture capitalists in those areas. That venture capitalists should go in and exchange up the government's inflow of funds is great. It works safely in some parts of the country, perhaps in Umeå. But it doesn't work in all areas – no matter how nice it sounds. With regard to the money from the EU Regional Development Fund, which the Minister also mentioned and which the Minister thought was a good addition to those parts of the country, I called and checked with the Swedish Agency for Growth. It is already existing money in the budget. The difference is that they are earmarked for this purpose. Then it is exchanged with money from Almi, a little from the county boards and from the regions. In addition, private capital goes in. On average, there are between 15 and 20 million per year per county in the affected areas. It's not a lot of money, I'd say. Of course, everything is welcome, but one can hardly say that it is a major effort. The government's own authority, Growth Analysis, says that 80 percent of all venture capital ends up in the larger cities, of which 50 percent in Stockholm. My criticism is therefore that it is remarkable that one geographical aspect is not mentioned in a single word in the investigation. To be honest, it shows the ignorance of the conditions in our elongated country. You can't use the same stakes all over the country. I know that because I live and work in one of those areas. I live and work in an area where the bank doesn't even take money. The conditions therefore look a little different in the larger cities in Sweden than in the countryside, in Dalarna or Västerbotten. I also have a brief comment that some other pieces to which the Minister referred would strengthen entrepreneurship in that part of the country. I cannot help mentioning the tax increases that also affect entrepreneurs – the Minister knows that the opposition is critical of the tax increases. With the forthcoming budget, entrepreneurs will receive nearly 30 billion in tax increases, including in the coming years. It is, of course, a load, combined with, for example, increased taxes on petrol and diesel. And, on top of that, 2 billion billion worth of venture capital is lost. That's exactly how it is. 2 billion goes missing for these areas. And what we get back in pure money is a spit styvere, a fraction. You can't really cheer for that.
i-49e881b9a43512e9-346	Mr President, I would like to I shall reinforce some of the points made by my colleague. The debate is about the availability of venture capital to one of Sweden's most important economic areas. In these seven counties – from Dalarna and Värmland north – the areas covered by Inlandsinnovation are largely based on the forest, ore, energy and tourism. But in my own county of Dalarna there is also a large, heavy base and export industry. Now you leave that area by saying that you should solve it in a different way. We are talking about a place in Sweden that is used very well to strengthen Sweden's long-term development. It is a nourishing area that adds a lot of money to the Swedish national product. In one place in the answer, the Government says, "But it is my absolute belief that overall funding opportunities for companies in the region should not be impaired in the implementation of the proposals of the Financing Investigation. It would be interesting to have a longer statement on how to do it. In the answer, the Minister makes more of an analysis of the situation. The answer is really interesting. The Minister also said, "In addition, the supply of venture capital in northern Sweden will be strengthened in the new programming period with the EU's Regional Development Fund. ..................................................... I then looked at the press release that went out this week about the Swedish Agency for Growth's funding for the various counties in this regard. I was thinking about how it is possible to turn old, existing funds into new ones. As a result of the Government's previous decisions on eight regional Structural Fund programmes, the Swedish Agency for Growth has now decided on a venture capital initiative in Northern Central Sweden for the period up to 2020. – – Capital for the development and expansion of small companies is central to innovation in Swedish business. It is therefore gratifying that a new venture capital fund in Gävleborg, Dalarna and Värmland will provide more companies with capital in the coming years. This is a new powerful strengthening of access to venture financing in North Central Sweden, which together with private co-financing will contribute to the development of expansive companies," says Mikael Damberg. ..................................................... This is what Mikael Damberg says, who has also proposed the closure of the former government's state venture capital company Inlandsinnovation with a capital of 2.5 billion. After all, these funds have already been available since the last EU period. Dalarna and Gävleborg, for example, received 88 million. The whole of Sweden received 1.3 billion. Then I would ask the Minister for Economic Affairs to explain how he can say in his own press release that this is a new strengthening of access to risk-averse financing.
i-49e881b9a43512e9-354	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to say that for northern Sweden, and above all for those parts of Sweden where it has been difficult to obtain capital for growing companies, the focus on venture capital is only partly wrong. It is not just venture capital that is interesting. It is important to have that perspective in front of us, not least for those entrepreneurs who do not have real estate and other assets of great value. They have had even worse opportunities since the financial crisis. The commercial banks are now working in a different way and have left parts of Sweden. It also makes it more difficult to obtain capital. I would like to hear the opinion of the Center Party: Is it interesting about the credit guarantee proposals in the Financing Investigation? This is another way of attracting capital of another kind that I think is absolutely most important in the rural areas of Sweden. That is quite a large part of the funding inquiry's proposal. Views have been received on how to design it and how it should be organised, but in principle it is probably right to shift some focus from just about venture capital to also about credit guarantees to develop the business community throughout Sweden. You can't have the cake and eat it. If you think it is good to have credit guarantees and want to finance such operations throughout Sweden, which means most in those parts where it is difficult to obtain guarantees today, then you have to finance this. If you want it to come to a demonstration facility fund – I understand that the forest industry is one of the warmest advocates of it, because you see that the whole bioenergy and bioeconomy perspective will require large investments in facilities that are currently too expensive and too difficult to obtain funding for – then you have to be able to deliver those proposals. I am happy to receive the views of the Center Party or other parties in this work. The government has established a principled position that means that we have to free up more of capital in order to get it to work in the phases where it does not work today. We have an ambition not only to talk about venture capital, but also to talk about credit guarantees. It is a matter of great importance for regional policy. But if the Center Party has creative and constructive input into this discussion, I am prepared to listen to them in the further process. It gets a little sloppy when you say that all the money is taken from somewhere and disappears from somewhere, because then you have to say no to all the proposals that are about also developing the business. I hope the Center Party doesn't think so. The other toss I got was about taxes. I can only conclude by saying that the Center Party is the only bourgeois party to stick to the tax cuts that cost about SEK 110 billion during the period of bourgeois government. This concerned reducing taxes on employers' contributions for young people. Despite their implementation and costing SEK 110 billion, they did not reduce youth unemployment. All other bourgeois parties have gradually abandoned this model in their draft budgets. It is a waste of tax money, it is better to use it differently to combat youth unemployment, and that is what the government is doing.
i-49e881b9a43512e9-360	Mr President, I would like to We in the Center Party are well aware that there are problems also with lending from banks. That is why we pursued this with investor deductions, which we also want to expand, that is, if you as a private person help a company with capital, you can also make a deduction for it in the tax return. That's about what it's all about. I also said earlier that there are many good suggestions in the investigation. It would take a few extra minutes to go through and comment on all the proposals and perhaps look at areas of improvement. I'd love to. I hope that the Minister does not just make the offer here in the speaker's chair, but that it is in fact an invitation. Nevertheless, I do not think that Inland innovation matters. I've seen how incredibly important it has been. Inland innovation has also contributed additional funds to the Norrland Fund. Some funds have also been set aside for the Upper Norrland Credit Guarantee Association, which provides very small loans at an initial stage, for example if a hairdresser wants to borrow money to expand his business or his salon. My question back to the Minister is: why should the most vulnerable parts of the country pay for the rest of the country, and above all for the larger cities? I am not saying this, because it is Growth Analysis that says that 80% of all risk capital goes to the larger cities. For me, this is a reversed Robin Hood policy that focuses more on some kind of Prince John effect. You take thousands of millions and give back a few. It's just like when Santa's handing out big packages. The hopes are very great on Christmas Eve that you will find something exciting, but when you open the big package it contains nothing more than a couple of
i-49e881b9a43512e9-365	Mr President, I would like to I note that it was difficult for the Government to explain why it regards previous full contributions from the EU as new venture capital in the counties that I asked about. But I couldn't get an answer. As a self-employed person, I have 25 years of experience in business, and it is about long-term sustainability and being able to create a good form of financing. I was talking about Almi Invest, which also invests in companies. They say that they are happy to invest, but with a little smaller amount, from 300 000 SEK up to 10 million. Then it has been very good to have access to Inlandsinnovation that handles the larger amounts, from 5 million up to 50 million. It is an important part of considering how to replace Inland Innovation efforts in these areas with good cooperation. With regard to the loan guarantee, I would just like to comment on it. The loan guarantee is great, but it costs money, and bank loans cost money. That is the weakness of just leaning against a loan guarantee. The advantage is that you can talk about investment capital at the same time. Capital is free of charge for companies until dividends are paid. Until then, share capital is very good for start-ups. I think that this possibility should be supplemented. Almi is often involved in taking out some loans, but Almis's loans are often very expensive, 6 – 8 percent, compared to market prices that are much lower. Nevertheless, I would like to reiterate the question: in what way will the new proposal, which the Minister for Economic Affairs will put forward, provide capital to this part of Sweden?
i-49e881b9a43512e9-370	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for this interpellation debate! What I am taking with me from the debate is a number of contributions where we have had slightly different views on thresholds. We've had some discussions about how it should be organized. There was a positive idea about the credit guarantees, which are another type of funding, which has perhaps been talked about too little, not least for rural development. However, I note that the Center Party has not wanted to talk about the demonstration development fund. Microfund is exactly what Inland innovation has invested in, a form of business angels. It is precisely this if microphones are intended to do. For eight years, the government has been in principle in power. There have been criticisms almost all along that state venture capital has not been organised in a sufficiently effective way. I do not want to go into it too much, but it is clear that Inland innovation has initially received an enormous amount of criticism about how the business was conducted. I have made little point of it in this debate, but I could do so. The Centre Party's own responsibility for the design of Inland Innovation will well be part of the explanation that one may not be able to make changes in government venture capital so energetically. But I think we have to do it. In order to get development and be able to make priority efforts, changes must also be made. However, I am still prepared to take the extended Lovikkavanten and see what can be done to see how these proposals can be as good as possible, in order to promote growth and development throughout Sweden, which is a natural starting point for the continued work of the Financing Investigation.
i-49e881b9a43512e9-375	Mr President, I would like to Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng has asked me a number of questions about how I intend to increase the status of craft know-how and to promote its preservation, how I intend to prevent the death of certain craft occupations, how more will receive travel letters, how craftsmen from other countries will get their professional skills validated more quickly and how the craft industry benefits from government reforms. Within the education system, there are many opportunities to learn about craft occupations with different specialisations. They are found in upper secondary and polytechnic schools, in arts and culture education and also in certain higher education programmes. These training courses are also offered in the field of adult education and by individual training providers. I think it is important that vocational training is an attractive choice for young people in particular. It is worrying that the interest in vocational training has been declining over a period of years, despite the fact that there is good access to it. The Government has therefore allocated SEK 67 million in the budget proposal for 2016 – and more will be set aside in the future – to strengthen the quality of professional programmes in various ways. The Government has also decided on directives for two studies, both of which, from different perspectives, have the task of promoting the matching between young people's choice of upper secondary vocational education and the demand for the labour market. This will be done by the so-called "Professional Programme Investigation". The secondary school inquiry is tasked with analysing and making proposals related to the attractiveness of professional programmes. It is an important task for the investigation to make suggestions on how professional pupils' right to study the courses required for basic eligibility can be strengthened. The needs and demands of society for different professional skills and skills change over time. In order to prevent the disappearance of craft occupations, training which contributes to the development or preservation of qualified professional skills in a narrow field of occupation may be included in the university of applied sciences. The specific provisions on support for artistic and cultural education are also aimed, inter alia, at training courses with a content aimed at preserving or developing cultural heritage. In addition, there is a wide range of training courses with a craft orientation that are carried out in a freer way in the field of adult education. I therefore believe that the education system offers good conditions for anyone who wants to learn a craft profession. But it also requires that there is an interest in taking advantage of the opportunities available. In the case of Gesällsletters, between 800 and 1 000 are issued each year. The issue of travel documents is carried out on the initiative of professional and professional organisations. They decide for themselves how, in what form and to what extent such certificates are to be issued. The individual chooses to apply for a journeyman's letter. The importance of such evidence in the profession or in society depends entirely on what these organisations and professionals attach to it. I believe that these certificates can be a good complement to degrees, grades and certificates issued within the education system. It is valuable for the professions concerned and their practitioners to be able to issue a journeyman's letter, but the scope of this is not to be regulated by the State. Validation of real skills for people from other countries is, on the one hand, a responsibility for the labour market and, on the other hand, a responsibility for the education system, depending on the purpose. The Swedish Public Employment Service will provide significant funding in the Government's 2016 budget proposal to allow professional validations against specific industry standards to increase. Validation of real skills with a view to obtaining formal certificates or grades in professional subjects at upper secondary level is a task for municipal adult education. The Government intends to provide significant resources from 2016 to vocational adult education, known as vocational adult education and training, as well as to Komvux. One condition is that the individual should have the opportunity to have his/her previous knowledge and experience validated. The purpose of the government's investments in this respect is to ensure that those who need and are in a position to get their knowledge validated as quickly as possible.
i-49e881b9a43512e9-385	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by thanking you for your answer. I have asked questions about the status of craft expertise and measures for more people to receive traveler letters and to prevent the deaths of craft professions. I have also asked how craftsmen from other countries will get their professional skills validated and, above all, how the craft industry benefits from government reforms. I was a little perplexed when I heard the answer from the government, and I'll explain why. She talked a lot about vocational education, and it's important. This was the view of the old alliance government, and I understand that the new red-green government has also made certain priorities in this area. But the journeyman's letters in the craft professions are not quite the same. It is really a form of top-level training in certain craft professions, while vocational training is somewhat more general, which applies both to the vocational training we have in our upper secondary schools and vocational training in general. They can complement each other, but it's definitely not the same thing. I am also a little surprised that in Sweden there are about 1 000 gesällbrev per year, while in Poland, to take a neighbouring country, about 60 000 gesällbrev is issued and in Germany 160 000. It is said by the government that the travelling letters are not the responsibility of the government. No, you could say that. But it is a social responsibility to ensure that we have good craft training and that we work together with the agencies that issue the newsletters. There is an interest from these organizations in getting a better business with more master letters and gesällbrev. This is an area that Sweden needs in several ways. Sweden needs the services. Today, in a number of areas, it is difficult to find craftsmen with high skills and gesällletter or masterletter; you can even occasionally go outside Sweden to get these services. It also creates more jobs. But this is not least important from the point of view of integration. We all want more jobs and better integration. Then this is an important part that can complement other jobs. I would like to point out in this debate that it is good if the Government can do more than simply refer to the state's vocational training.
i-49e881b9a43512e9-390	Mr President, I would like to I thank Lars-Arne Staxäng for his comments and his interest in vocational training and the craft professions. I am very pleased that we share the positive attitude towards these professions. On the other hand, I regret that the former bourgeois government did not view vocational training as positive in general. We previously had a representative at the Ministry of Education who spoke down vocational training in many ways when, on the contrary, they should be spoken up and their status. Many things have long been pointed out to professional students and to those involved in crafts of various kinds. It has sounded as if these people have lower ambitions and less know-how. They are the ones who don't want and can, and so we need to lower the levels for them in order for them to get through the education system and want to start working. I don't think anyone wants to be stigmatized like that. Firstly, I and the government want to talk about the status of vocational training and those jobs. We want to do this together with the parties, the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, LO and others, because it requires a joint responsibility. Then we need to expand the capacity for vocational training from upper secondary school to adult education and the university of applied sciences. It must be a coherent and good chain. I do not quite agree that this is not relevant to the jobs we are now talking about. After all, the ordinary education system aims to supply the labour market with skills. We have high school programs that make it possible to become a sheet metal worker, baker, florist, carpenter, etc., but we need to get more young people to choose those courses, both in high school and in public education, in adult education and so on. Capacity is important, and attraction is important. I would like us to find one another, Moderates and Social Democrats between the government and the bourgeois bloc, in order to jointly strengthen these educations, because they lead to jobs and are good for the labour market and therefore also for our economy.
i-49e881b9a43512e9-395	Mr President, I would like to Firstly, I do not think I share the view that the Alliance Government has looked down on vocational training, quite the contrary. I don't know if we've lived in different worlds. Many times not least the Social Democrats but also the Red-Greens have tried to make it possible for all vocational training to be designed so that one could continue into the university. It can be good when it's possible. Many of the vocational training programmes have been looked down on as a matter of urgency and have wanted them removed. In many cases, the alliance government actually tried to get vocational training back and clarify it. I thank you for the explanation, but I remain in my view that more could be done with regard to the training itself and so on. Measures for more traveler letters are very important. Despite what I have heard here, I think it is a good thing that the government is taking initiatives on this issue and that it will have vocational training that goes hand in hand with gesällutbildning, so that it will get part of the basic education and perhaps also the upper secondary and vocational school, but also goes some time in specialist training with a master and becomes a gesäll. In the deep gesällsutbildningar it can take many years before you become good at your profession. Sweden has often been bad at validating educations when people come from outside, from other countries. This applies to both higher education and vocational education. Sweden is historically built by skilled craftsmen. If we go back several hundred years, we can see that we have received subsidies not least from Germany, France, Italy and the Netherlands. Many of the nice houses we admire here in the Old Town of Stockholm are built with craftsmanship that comes from these countries. We need to be better at validating education, because we need people from outside, and we also need to train people within Sweden for these top jobs. Rightly exploited, we could already get a much better exchange of people who are and intend to become craftsmen in gesäll occupations.
i-49e881b9a43512e9-401	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by testifying something about what Swedish professionalism can mean. Lars-Lars-Arne Staxäng talks about the beautiful houses we see here in Stockholm. I had to follow the Swedish national team before, during and after the summer, who would compete in the World Cup in Brazil. It was very committed and passionate young men and women who really held the Swedish flag high and performed well. They took medals and received awards and really showed that Swedish professionalism is world class. What we need to do is tie all these elements together in order for more students to choose practical education. We must make the social partners contribute to this too. Of course, those of us who are involved in politics need to contribute our share. When I talk to the parties, I have not received a signal that it would be the journeyman who is the problem. In many ways, the parties feel that they can handle it on their own. As I said in my speech, I do not intend to involve the state more than necessary in this work. I have faith that the industries can handle this on their own. However, I would like the government to take responsibility for more young people choosing to study in these professions, and we are also working on validation, as Mr Saxäng points out. I agree that far too few people who come to Sweden get their qualifications validated in the right way. The system today is bursting. Sometimes I think there's a jungle out there, unfortunately, although there are some good examples. What we need to do is create a nationally coherent validation system, which is, above all, transparent to the individual, so that you can see what your own door is in and what steps you have to follow to get your knowledge recognised. This is what the government is working on. We have already provided resources to improve validation. For example, the National Board of Health and Welfare has received more money for people to be validated in medical professions. We spend money on the Public Employment Service, so that the industries can validate the professionals. This is to be seen as step one. What is needed is a coherent larger structure to get this right. We will come back with proposals in this area as early as this autumn. We have worked intensively on this during the year. It's been a priority. It is not only part of our education policy but also part of our employment policy, which will ensure that employment in Sweden is improved and that we push back unemployment within the groups where it is too high.
i-49e881b9a43512e9-407	Mr President, I would like to I must also thank the Government for its answer. I think it is important to raise this issue. I do not think that the government has any intention of leaving gesäll and master letter knowledge outside, but it has simply not thought about this. It is believed that it is part of normal vocational training and that it is only a small part. A real education is a top-level education. It is an education that takes five to ten years — as much as it takes to become a doctor in many cases. In fact, an advanced vocational training course takes between five and ten years where knowledge requirements are high. It is important that we bring this issue forward together with the industry. The industry itself says that it has wanted to have a clear continuation with the government, not least in order to be able to bring in new people and young people, both from other countries and from Sweden, who attend these courses and then go to gesällsutbildningarna. Above all, I am pleased that we can get a clearer and better validation when it comes to those who already have great knowledge but who never really get educated and get grades.
i-49e881b9a43512e9-412	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, once again, Lars-Arne Staxäng, both for the debate and for the comparison. Yes, we agree with each other that vocational training needs to be promoted. The government will invest in the expansion of capacity. We will invest in the attractiveness of these courses. We will do so together with the parties. I am happy to have a further dialogue with the Staxäng and the Moderates and the other bourgeois parties on how we can gather around vocational training and everything that has to do with the interaction between school, labour market and business. In no way do I want to stand here and be uncompromising, but I am putting forward the policy that the government has put on the agenda so far. It is primarily a question of expanding the regular education system. We have a good platform there, but it needs to be even better. Thank you, once again, for the interpellation! I hope we will continue our discussion on this.
