i-b15adbd24998b523-6	Madam President, I would like Gunilla Nordgren has asked me whether the government intends to review the proposed action programmes and whether I am prepared to postpone the decisions for one year as requested by the Western Sea Water Delegation. The Government decided on 19 November that the Government intends to examine the proposals for action programmes for the period 2016 to 2021. On 11 November 2015, the Water Authority of the Western Sea Water District requested, among other things, to postpone the date for establishing the action programmes for 2016 to 2021 by one year. The Government's decision makes it clear that this request is only updated if the government's review leads to the water authorities establishing the action programmes. According to the Environmental Code, the action programmes are to be established by the government or the authority that the government decides. The Government's decision means that the Government has taken a position on the examination of the action programmes that will apply for the period 2016 – 2021. This means that as long as the government's investigation is ongoing, the task of examining the action programmes is not on the water authorities. The Government's decision is thus a departure from what the Government has stipulated in the regulation on the management of the quality of the aquatic environment. The water authorities can therefore quietly await the government's forthcoming decision. The government's review may lead to the government establishing one or more of the measures or parts of the programmes or decide that any authority should do so. I understand that work has been going on with the water authorities to produce a new basis for decision-making. That evidence has been submitted to the Government Office. However, further completion may be required. The continued work of the water authorities is important for the review that the government is about to make.
i-b15adbd24998b523-10	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer. What the Government says is true: While I submitted this interpellation, the government had a meeting at 2.30 p.m. 9 in the morning. However, that is a good thing, because then we will have an opportunity to debate the issue here. The government's delay in taking the decision to make an appeal caused great concern. As the Government said, one of the water delegations in the government asked to postpone the decision. On 5 August, I received an answer from the Government to a written question. The answer said that the government was preparing the case. But not until November 19 came the decision. It's a little too far. Both authorities, such as the Swedish Board of Agriculture, and a large number of municipalities have requested an appeal. Åsa Romson has said in several debates in this House that there will be decisions this autumn and that the government will return after the summer. The 19th of November is after the summer, but quite far behind. In June, the Ministry of Environment and Energy sent out a referral to the municipalities with several with its amended opinion and the question of whether they remained in their claims for an appeal. The referral came on June 10, and the answers were due on July 8th. The action programmes are very comprehensive, and a balance needs to be struck between different societal interests in terms of costs, impacts, consequences and, not least, financing. Our agriculture is highly competitive. If we in Sweden adopt rules that make agriculture even more difficult, we will soon have no agriculture left. It is important that Swedish farmers are not forced to take expensive measures more than our neighbouring countries, because then we lose further competitiveness. When we met the five water delegations in the Committee on Environment and Agriculture, I asked them how much contact they had with other countries in the implementation of these rules. It turned out from the answers that there was not much contact you had had. There would have been little contact with Finland up in the Western Sea, but not much otherwise. Denmark recently decided to postpone the decision until the first half of 2016. They also adopted a number of facilitations for protection zones and more. However, further additions may be required, says Åsa Romson in her reply. Should I interpret it as being prepared to postpone the decision? That was the second of the two questions in my interpellation, and the first one has already been answered.
i-b15adbd24998b523-19	Madam President, I would like I have not only made it clear in reply to written questions from the Member of Parliament, Gunilla Nordgren, but also in a number of interpellation debates that, with an appeal being made to the Government, the Government will also look at the matter. The government is preparing the case. Then there were some differences of opinion between the authorities and the Government Office as to whether there was a need for a formal decision that the Government should examine the matter or whether it was already apparent from the fact that we are preparing the cases that depended on this being appealed and handed over to the Government. However, I am pleased that the authorities and the Government Office are now agreed that this is on the government's table and that the government's test is possible in the broad areas of both the whole and the parts and that the whole or parts may be brought back. The decision-making basis that has been processed for a long time has also changed so that it is not the original proposals for water action programmes that are now on the table but processed proposals that have taken many steps forward, not least in the dialogue and contacts between the parties, which I appreciate and which was also the intention of the government in this matter. We see that strong water work is essential for society as a whole, but also for farmers. It is the quality we have on the water in Sweden that determines what quality of production we can have on food and what viable agriculture we can have in the future. This is largely a joint responsibility and a joint effort. Here, too, we must find common solutions. Of course, it is important that the conditions for competition are equal, as the honourable Member Nordgren points out. The Action Programmes are an EU-wide policy that is governed within the common frameworks. It is extremely important that we are clear that this is a work that is taking place in all countries. Good water work in Sweden and good water work in our neighbouring countries are prerequisites for each other. In those parts, I think we agree. Unfortunately, I cannot say today when the government's decision comes to the fore. The decision of 19 November that I presented is just a decision in form. But when decisions come in substance, I am anxious that it is so well prepared that it works for the whole of Swedish society, including farmers, and that we get a process forward in water work that really emphasizes the water quality that I know all Swedes want us to have, while we know that we need to find solutions for different industries, perhaps also at different times.
i-b15adbd24998b523-24	Madam President, I would like Yes, there have been various types of collaboration and referrals. In southern Skåne, in the southern district, they had a conversation like this just a few weeks ago. They said: No, it is we who make decisions, and there should be no review. I've heard that myself from people who were there. Then you're a little surprised. I fully agree that water is our most important food. It's really important. But it is also important to do this as farmers manage to do it. Oversight for the municipalities costs a lot of money. So this is not easy. We're letting things out in the same ocean. There is nothing as global as the environment. Whether the discharges into the Baltic Sea come from Poland or from Simrishamn, it is one and the same sea. We must not put our farmers' legs away, because then it will definitely not be good. I also understand that the basis for the decision is now quite thoroughly revised and that, among other things, the 80 000 hectares of adapted protection zones have become about a third. Then you can ask yourself the question – and it has also been asked, at least in my country: Are you prepared to make a new round of referrals? There have only been a few meetings but no new consultation round. Perhaps we should have more wise points of view. This matter is so important that it should be very well prepared once the government makes decisions.
i-b15adbd24998b523-29	Madam President, I would like I agree with the honourable Member's emphasis on the fact that the environment is indeed a global issue and that international cooperation on environmental and climate issues is therefore very important. We release the same substances into the same sea, which is why environmental work must be carried out jointly. At the same time, actors such as the agricultural sector, the open-air sector, forestry and the urban building are very important parts of a broad and strong water work. I will take with me the comments on considering the rounds of referrals and the like. Of course, it is also important not to stop unnecessarily, because there is a great desire to come to a decision so that we can take on the task and start working on the action programme. But, of course, matters should be properly prepared when you take them up for decision. I'll take the points with me and let's see.
i-b15adbd24998b523-32	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. These are so important things that it should be well prepared. We agree on that. Then there is some discussion of the impact of the various measures. You don't always agree on that. It is therefore important to carry out an impact assessment so that agriculture may be less sceptical. There will also be costs for municipalities where there is not really funding. There is talk of the rural development programme, but there is no money in the rural development programme. Since this is so difficult and expensive things, it is better to wait six months or a year and get it properly illuminated. For example, the Swedish Board of Agriculture's response makes it very clear that you want impact assessments. It would be very good if you could make another round of referrals so that it will be good in the end.
i-b15adbd24998b523-36	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the debate on this urgent issue. The interest of the committee and the Members is very important in this. I think that with regard to the procedural issues, how we can process water action programmes in the future, which we will have to do more times– there are cycles in six years– we will see if there are lessons to be learned. There are also issues that I do not think we can resolve in a quick turn, but which we need to build over time, for example in terms of burden-sharing and financing models for larger commitments. It's a question we're going to have to drill a little bit more into. But I am also keen that the government can solve the knots that have existed between the authorities so far. There has been a demand for review, and the government intends to do such a thing that the work can then get started in a good way.
i-b15adbd24998b523-37	Madam President, I would like Niklas Wykman has asked Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson what the Minister and Government want to do to break the new exclusion and increase the driving forces for more people to get to work. The interpellation has been handed over to me for reply. The government sees as its most important task during its term of office to increase employment and permanently reduce unemployment. Our employment policy is based on people's desire for work and development. Work means opportunities for self-sufficiency, community, belonging and the power to shape one's life and future. Today we have a labour market where the number of job vacancies is more than ever, while at the same time we have a high level of unemployment. Many job seekers lack the skills or experience required by employers to employ. In this respect, those who do not have completed upper secondary education have particularly difficulty in gaining a foothold in the labour market. In order for those who find it difficult to compete in today's labour market to be able to take responsibility and increase their chances at work, society needs to respond with concrete opportunities for education, training or other actions that lead to jobs. In order to speed up the establishment of newcomers in the Swedish labour market, newcomers' knowledge and skills must be better exploited. The possibility to have their previous education assessed and their skills validated but also to be able to take part in further training if necessary is important in order to be able to get a job quickly. Several measures relevant to the issue are proposed in the budget proposal for 2,016. The Government's efforts at the Kunskapsliftet involve both a substantial increase in places and higher quality in education for adults. Target groups can be both newly arrived and young adults who have discontinued upper secondary school studies and individuals who need to learn in a transition phase or develop themselves. In the budget bill, the Government proposes major future investments in housing, climate change and infrastructure, an active business policy for more and growing companies and investments in skills and matching to equip people to take the jobs that are emerging. These efforts are a major and important step towards achieving the government's objectives, but more will have to be done. In this context, I would also like to emphasise the importance of the Government and the Moderates, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Christian Democrats having agreed on the necessary efforts to ensure the ability of Swedish reception of asylum seekers, as well as efforts to strengthen the establishment of new arrivals.
i-b15adbd24998b523-43	Madam President, I would like This in times of flu and as a pitiful man – something that is known from television advertising and other things – you know that if you are healthy you want a lot of things with life while the person who is sick just wants to get well. Although it is not exactly comparable, it is possible to draw a parallel to the situation on the labour market: When you have a job and your life flows on, you dream about a lot of things and want to do different things, but when you are in isolation or are unemployed you just want to have a job and get back into the community again. I am therefore pleased that the Minister for Employment is talking about how more people are going to get into work and also underscores the importance of working together and the importance it has for individuals to be in a context of others and feel that they are contributing – that they have someone waiting for you in the morning and that they have something to tell about when they come home in the evening. I have no doubt that the Minister for Labour and the whole government have the highest ambitions both in terms of job creation and in terms of repressing exclusion. What is worrying, however, is the history of the government and, to some extent, of the Minister for Labour in this area. The last time we had a Social Democratic government acted outside, but at very high levels, unemployment was in fact record high but was hidden by means of statistics. One job was counted as several by dividing them with different types of measures. Now the Minister for Labour returns a little to this with extra jobs, extra jobs, skills and other things, such as the 100-day guarantee, which has been evaluated and, in reality, has proved not to lead to more jobs but, on the contrary, in some cases even to fewer jobs. It has been an effective way to tri x a with the statistics, simply, and make it seem that more are working than is actually the case. Now the government is once again moving in this direction with extra jobs and other things where it simply removes the unemployed, not by making the jobs more, but by largely reclassifying people. This is, of course, in order to be able to stand and tell us that unemployment has fallen when, in practice, it is not the case that job growth has been strong; instead, it has moved people around in the statistics. The Swedish people know this. Ylva Johansson knows that. It is by now well known about how the Social Democrats deal with such issues. However, how jobs will actually be increased does not answer the government's question. I had put the interpellation to Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson to get some clarity on how to look at the measures taken for more jobs. In the budget proposal put on the table by Ylva Johansson and the Government, it appears that it is assumed that the employment tax deduction and the alliance government's measures will push back equilibrium unemployment by about 1 – 2 percentage points. That is why, Madam President, I wonder how the Minister for Labour sees the job tax deduction, for example. According to the budget, this leads to about 1 - 2 percentage points lower equilibrium unemployment. Is there something that the Minister for Labour is behind?
i-b15adbd24998b523-49	Madam President, I would like We now heard a lot about what the previous Social Democratic Government was doing. But in between we have had bourgeois government for eight years. During that time, unemployment grew while matching deteriorated. So we got more jobs that employers applied to but where they did not find the right skills. At the same time, we got more unemployed. In particular, long-term unemployment and youth unemployment increased. It feels like you should evaluate something you should also evaluate what the previous government has done. As far as policy is concerned, I think the Minister for Employment's response is very good. What are we spending resources on? What's the biggest problem? Yes, the biggest problem is the high unemployment rate and, at the same time, the bottleneck with all employers who are looking for people without finding the right skills. Then you make a combination of this. You raise the skills of the unemployed so that they can take the jobs that actually exist. That is precisely the direction of the government. As far as the previous government was concerned, there was far too little investment in education but very much in tax cuts. We can now evaluate: what led this policy to – there were major tax cuts that were constantly increasing. Yes, it led to mass unemployment. It can be said that this was not the solution to the problem, but we must try something new. It's very simple. Education is the most important thing. That is what employers are saying. The most important thing is to find staff with the right skills. This is how we in Sweden have competed internationally – you can see that if you look back in history. We have not competed with low-wage jobs, because it will always be people around the world who have lower wages than the Swedes. We can also see that many low-skilled jobs have moved to other countries. We have competed with knowledge by strengthening workers so that they become attractive in the labour market. I am absolutely convinced that this is the right way to go again this time. The most important question is: what do we do with the resources we have? I do not think that we should continue to reduce taxes over and over again when we see that it did not actually lead to more jobs and that there was less resources for welfare. It is absolutely crucial that we have an education system that works to prepare people for the jobs that still exist. It's part of the public sector. That is why I think this is the right way to go. But of course it is also about creating the best conditions for companies, the private jobs. Speaking of closed-ended measures, we can look at phase 3 that has been condemned. It hasn't led to any more jobs. There are very many people who have felt humiliated, especially because they have not received a real salary even though they have worked full time. During the last parliamentary term, Parliament announced that it would stop this measure as long as it was so low in quality. Quality assurance is now taking place in labour market policy, which also gives the Public Employment Service more opportunities to actually help the unemployed. That must still be the goal. I can say that I agree with the interpellant about some writing. If you don't have a high school education, there's very little chance of a job. But that is exactly what the government is now correcting. I hope we can agree on that part. But it is not possible to combine it with major tax cuts, because then simply the money is not enough for the necessary training efforts.
i-b15adbd24998b523-56	Madam President, I would like I share Niklas Wykman's view of the importance of getting a job. Anyone who does not have a job wants nothing more than a job to go to. That is why it is now gratifying that unemployment is falling quite strongly and that new jobs are being created. We have lived with a bourgeois budget until this summer, but we have not had a single day since I took office in a bourgeois labour market policy. We changed labour market policy from day one. We have focused on giving priority to education, liberalising labour market policies and liberalising the Public Employment Service. We have invested in flexibility, in efforts from the first day and in redeploying work to meet employers' needs – for many years with the bourgeois government it has been a neglected issue. Now we see unemployment falling. I'm glad to hear that. But it's from a very high level. More efforts will be needed to enable us to give everyone a place in the labour market. The Moderates often fall into this fact that tax policy is the only effective tool in employment policy. But we now have a situation with a fairly strong demand in the Swedish economy. That's pretty good moves in the Swedish economy. Jobs are growing and unemployment is falling. In this situation, I believe that few skilled people are in favour of general tax cuts to tackle unemployment. Rather, it is about training and targeted efforts to ensure that there are people who can take the job vacancies. That is where the role of labour market policy is in job creation. Labour market policy does not create new jobs, but labour market policy can ensure that job vacancies are created. This creates new jobs, as companies can expand in the way they want, and also public activities can expand in the way they plan. I find it a bit boring, Madam President, when you describe education, adult education, as trixing with statistics. Of course, that view can be held. I have the opposite view. I think education is the single most important investment society can make in a person. I also think that education is the single most important investment that an individual can make to strengthen his/her position in the labour market and influence himself so that he/she does not get caught up in exclusion. Education is not the solution to everything, but it is the single most important effort to both strengthen the individual's position in the labour market and improve the functioning of the labour market so that employers can get the right people with the right skills. The government will continue to invest heavily in education.
i-b15adbd24998b523-62	Madam President, I would like Over the years, many types of criticism have been levelled at the Social Democrats. It may not have been a lack of self-sufficiency or self-righteousness. It's clear these days. Someone once said that reality is the worst enemy of the Social Democrats. There are those who remain in the past, where they believe they can define the truth and write about what a human being says so much. They think they can distort a person's words and try in different ways to twist the whole view of the political debate and the climate of conversation. But the internet, the opportunity to go back to recordings and hear what people have actually said and so on have twisted that weapon out of the hands of Ylva Johansson with several colleagues. That does not mean, Madam President, that you are not trying to use it anyway. I have never argued, the Minister for Employment, that education is a trifle with statistics. On the other hand, taking people away from a measure where they are classified as unemployed and put them into another measure that is very similar to the first measure but has a different name and then classifys them as if they were to have a job and be employed. It's a trixing, Ylva Johansson, not to educate people– it's never anyone who has said. But in these times, when the Social Democrats today, I think, get their worst SCB quotation ever, perhaps they themselves will come to the conclusion that that kind of rhetoric is not so successful. Madam President, I would like Ambulance measures do not create any more jobs," says the Minister for Labour. That's correct. Nevertheless, it is full of Amsutbildningar and Amföretagningar that is presented in the Minister for Labour's response to how the jobs will be increased. It's a bit remarkable. What does the Minister for Labour really do to increase job demand, to increase the number of jobs in the economy itself? Is it the tax increases of SEK 40 billion on jobs and growth that makes Swedish companies dare employees more? Is it economically very uncertain that the government is throwing Sweden into, with a abolished surplus target, with a lack of clarity as to whether to keep the expenditure ceilings and a great instability in what political information actually applies when a government party says that they themselves would have been against the government's policy if they were in opposition? Is it the kind of tax increases and instability that makes more people dare to hire, or where will the jobs actually come from, the Minister for Labour? In what way should more people want to hire in that climate? Madam President, I would like The Labour Minister said they've been living with the Alliance's budget for a year. During that time, the number of jobs has increased. Employment has increased and unemployment has been pushed back. You simply have to congratulate the current government on having to rule their first year with an alliance policy that allowed this to happen. Then the Minister of Labour says that they have not had the Alliance's labour market policy for a single day. It has been my labour market policy from day one," she says. Then I say that there is nothing wrong with self-confidence when you think that you step into the Ministry of Labour, put up some strategies and they are in effect from day one. That is a sensational statement, Madam President. The Minister for Labour is probably deeply pleased with the job tax deduction which, according to her own budget, has reduced equilibrium unemployment by 1 – 2 percentage points.
i-b15adbd24998b523-70	Madam President, I would like If you are looking for new jobs, you can start with the jobs that actually exist in the country. One in five jobs cannot be filled because the employer does not find the right skills, so we can start by ensuring that these jobs are added. You can hit two birds with one stone. It helps employers to find people, and it helps the unemployed to get to work. The government's focus now is to ensure that the skills of the unemployed are strengthened. It is much more important than continuing on the tax-merger line that has not worked. It is black and white that unemployment has increased in these years, and as unemployment has increased, taxes have been reduced more and more. But it did not have an effect, and that is why we need to find something new that will lead us forward. We can see, as Niklas Wykman writes in his interpellation, that those who lack upper secondary skills are several times more likely to suffer unemployment and find it more difficult to get out of unemployment. Then that's where you're supposed to invest and make sure everyone gets basic skills. It is good if the Moderates are now on that line, but in the past it has been far from obvious. Even primary school competence has not been a matter of course to get help with in Arbetsförmedlingen. Now before the government the right to komvux. This means that everyone should of course have the right to upper secondary education, but you should also later in life be able to supplement with komvux. Of course, we are also expanding the training places for other courses. I think this is extremely important. If we are to evaluate something historically, when it was a social democratic government, we have the knowledge boost, where we promised to halve unemployment. We managed to strengthen people's skills, and they got jobs when the business cycle turned. More of that trail I think is good.
i-b15adbd24998b523-75	Madam President, I would like Niklas Wykman begins his first speech in an interesting way, you have to say. In fact, if there is no glimpse of some insight into that post! Niklas Wykman says that it is flu times now and that those who are ill just want to get well. I do not know whether Niklas Wykman has recently had the flu and perhaps thereby gained that insight, Madam President, but there are many points to this. Then, look and behold, Niklas Wykman says that if you're unemployed, you just want a job. Now I don't think Niklas Wykman has been unemployed or felt this at some point, because he's been employed at the Moderate Party Office for the past ten years, but apart from that and considering that Niklas Wykman stands for a policy that means that you don't believe that unemployed people want a job, this is exciting. This little spark of insight that you can possibly trace in Niklas Wykman's first post will then come away when you see what he wants to do, because then it's classic, failed, traditional, poor moderate politics. He wants to increase the so-called driving forces. He thinks if you tie the horse to the wall and whip it, it'll run fast. But it doesn't really work that way. If 400 000 people in this country are unemployed because, as Hillevi Larsson points out, they do not have the necessary training or experience to take on the jobs that exist, we shall of course offer the unemployed with a labour market and education policy that opportunity so that they can take the jobs that exist, especially if we say that we understand that the unemployed only want one job. Madam President, I would like What has been Niklas Wykman's and his party's policy for eight years is precisely to reduce compensation to the unemployed. It is to increase the tax gap between the one who does not have a job and the one who has a job in order to increase the so-called driving forces. You don't really believe what you say. Niklas Wykman, Madam President, is absolutely convinced that 400 000 people in this country have chosen unemployment over employment because it is not profitable to work. Then Niklas Wykman's recipe is, of course, a sixth job tax deduction because the first five apparently did not increase the motivation for the unemployed enough. But somewhere you can actually start thinking a little bit. Niklas Wykman says, Madam President, that there is another reason than laziness that young people are unemployed – it is a bit of a Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde identity with Niklas Wykman – because here he actually admits that it may be that it is the lack of upper secondary skills that affects youth unemployment. However, Niklas Wykman is back in the moderate ditch again, claiming that there should be low wages for young people, lower thresholds and an increase in driving forces. My question to Niklas Wykman is therefore: Has Niklas Wykman not drawn any conclusions whatsoever from these small star cases, the brief glimpses of insight into what are the real problems of unemployment?
i-b15adbd24998b523-83	Madam President, I would like The Moderates, as I said earlier, have an unfortunate fixation on tax policy. If you think that fiscal policy is what is labour market policy, it will of course take time for you to start implementing something. Then you have to get your budget through first, and then it takes some time before it can take effect. If, on the other hand, we realise that labour market policy is much more important than tax policy and that the other elements are also more effective than tax policy, we can start applying it from the first day, as this government has done. The old government ruled Arbetsförmedlingen to a dysfunctional authority. Labour market policy was governed by a rigid regulatory framework that made it more important for employment services to live up to the acquis than to ensure that people got jobs. It was also governed in such a way that very few employers felt that they could get professional help in their recruitment from Arbetsförmedlingen. We've changed this now. We are liberalising the Public Employment Service. We are liberalising labour market policy. We have changed the whole focus to focus more on employers' needs. In the end, it is an employer who is going to hire. The unfortunate obsession with concentrating solely on those furthest from the labour market also made employers increasingly difficult to find the right skills. Another important thing is collaboration with other actors. Of course, neither the government nor the Employment Service can solve unemployment themselves. It's a matter of interacting with others. Some of the key players are the social partners and Swedish municipalities. We have invested a lot of energy and time in building a good collaboration with Sweden's municipalities and with the social partners. It is also cooperation that bears fruit. When several interact, one and one can actually be more than two. This unfortunate lock-up to tax policy also had an effect that many people have had to pay, namely that unemployment rose during the old government. Youth unemployment rose to such disastrous levels that we became eligible for EU support to cope with it. Billion after billions, up to 100 billion, the old government invested in inefficient tax cuts in employers' contributions for young people – a method that did not work. When it was introduced, it was promised that it would solve youth unemployment. The result was sad: youth unemployment rose. Now that we are removing that tax subsidy, there is a threat that youth unemployment will increase. The result, however, is a fall in youth unemployment. This is not, of course, because we are removing that tax subsidy, but it is because of other measures that are more effective. It is about meeting the people furthest from the labour market with effective measures, and it is about investing heavily in equipping people to take the job vacancies. Niklas Wykman asks who should dare to hire. Obviously, there are quite a lot of people who dare, as we currently have more vacancies in Sweden than we have ever had. It is a major challenge for labour market policy – and education policy – to ensure that job vacancies can be filled.
i-b15adbd24998b523-91	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Labour. It is clear that a day like this is frustrating for the Social Democracy, with its worst results ever in a SCB measurement. But, Madam President, I do not think it helps to continue to distort the reality of classical S-manér from the 70s and 80s, where you are absolutely convinced that you are in prison with reality, so true and undistorted that you can impose it on everyone else regardless of what it actually looks like outside the party programme. If you evaluate the economic situation in Sweden in 2014, the Minister for Labour, you find that Sweden had the strongest public finances in the EU. Among all comparable countries, Sweden endured the strongest public finances. Sweden in 2014 after the alliance government had the highest employment rate across the European Union. We had done third best in Europe to create jobs among young people. We had the strongest employment development among older people of all comparable countries. The highest employment rate across the EU is surely not as black as the Minister for Labour describes it. After all, everyone knows that the world suffered a huge economic crisis in 2008. It is clear that it also affected the Swedish labour market. It wasn't the Alliance's fault. For that matter, it was not the fault of the Minister for Labour either. Now we have a hands-on government that does not take any action. They claim to have suffered another crisis that they did not know about even though Carl Bildt and Anders Borg spoke about the major challenges of this parliamentary term even before the elections. The 90s crisis finally blamed the Social Democrats for – ten years too late, according to Kjell-Kjell-Olof Feldt. The alienation crisis that has been caused and continues to cause in Sweden, with a rising alienation, Ylva Johansson will probably take on some day – ten years too late, she may say then.
i-b15adbd24998b523-97	Madam President, I would like When you have listened to Niklas Wykman's last speech, you can see that there was not a word about the labour market. There was not a constructive proposal from the Moderates on how to deal with unemployment or youth unemployment or the challenge we have when many new arrivals arrive in Sweden – not a single word. Those who have been sitting here listening have been able to say so, but you can also read protocols, look at webcasts and other things and find that it is empty. It is sadly empty in a wounded Moderate Party that has suffered a leadership crisis, a wounded Moderate Party that after eight years was given a travel pass by the Swedish people because it failed with what it promised, that is, to push back unemployment. When this wounded Moderate Party is going to try to get into the labour market debate, you start talking about the 70s and 80s. It is rather symptomatic – the audience can say that. The old Moderates don't get better because they call themselves the New M Oderates. The old moderate rhetoric about alienation does not sound fresher because you call it the new alienation. And the sixth job tax credit is no more innovative or better than the first or second or third or fourth or fifth. The sixth job tax deduction is the only small straw in labour market policy that Niklas Wykman can hold. But here today – and this honors Niklas Wykman – he was ashamed to mention it when he was going to discuss labour market policy. That straw, of course, does not hold.
i-b15adbd24998b523-102	Madam President, I would like Let me make a few comments: Sweden has the highest employment rate. We have strong public finances. We have a high employment rate – higher than everyone else – when it comes to older people in the labour market. That is what happened when the old government took office. That's what you took over. What you changed during your reign was that unemployment rose from a level that Fredrik Reinfeldt in opposition described as mass unemployment to almost 2 percentage points higher, remarkably combined with huge job vacancies and youth unemployment of up to 25% – so high that it rendered support from other EU countries. This is not the case with moderate labour market policies.
i-b15adbd24998b523-105	Madam President, I would like Christian Holm Barenfeld has asked me if I see any risks that impaired household finances may affect job growth in the Swedish labour market. Let me begin by stating that there is no indication that the household economy will deteriorate. On the contrary, the government estimates that households' disposable income will continue to develop positively and that consumption will increase at a faster rate in the coming years than it has in recent years. This contributes to an increase in demand for labour. Households' savings have generally been high for several years. This allows for increased consumption, which can reinforce the economic upturn. However, households with small economic margins have had no room to save or consume to the extent that would be desirable. Government policy clearly strengthens the disposable income of these households. It gives them the opportunity to increase their consumption, and it also benefits jobs. The changes in tax policy proposed by the government in the budget bill will mainly concern households with relatively high incomes. In these households consumption is not affected equally directly by changes in net income. The Economic Institute estimates that the reduction in ROT and RUT deductions does not have a significant impact on labour supply. We need to invest in Sweden to meet the challenges of the future. In the budget bill, the Government proposes comprehensive investments in housing, climate change, education, health care and care for the elderly. Increased public consumption does not have a direct effect on households' disposable income, but it does mean an increased demand for labour in the public sector. In addition, more welfare services contribute to a general improvement in living conditions and a more balanced distribution of income, which ultimately leads to more jobs.
i-b15adbd24998b523-110	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Ylva Johansson for the answer to my interpellation. I have put it because I am a little worried about the development we are seeing in Sweden, not least in terms of jobs, growth and people's ability to stand on their own feet in the long term. During the alliance government, we carried out a long series of reforms to strengthen Sweden, so that more people could live on what they earned from their work and, of course, for more people to work and thus have an income. When we said that it should always pay to work, that the worker should get more money in his wallet and that it is reasonable that the worker earns more than the one who doesn't work, it wasn't empty words or slogans – it was concrete, straight messages about what we wanted to do, what we did and why we did it. Now we see another policy. In the labour market, we certainly see few reforms, but those that are done often have a low, no-one or perhaps the opposite effect. These are major, important electoral promises for the Social Democrats, such as the 90-day guarantee and trainee jobs. Of the 32,000 trainee jobs promised in the elections, there has so far been only one. And the 90-day guarantee, which may well be seen as the Social Democrats' absolutely most important election promise and which, according to his own statement, would be Stefan Lövven's first government decision as Prime Minister, we will see what happens. He sometimes seems to doubt the measure, but the Minister for Labour still seems to believe it. However, it would be good if she did not do so because it has been observed afterwards that the broadly identical 100-day guarantee did not work. It was inefficient, expensive and ineffective because it did not deliver any jobs. The government's lack of job- and growth-creating measures is one thing. My interpellation is mainly about what gives worse conditions for the Swedish people in terms of jobs and growth. This applies to all those who work but also to companies. A tax shock of about 30 billion a year on labour has consequences for the vast majority. Eight out of ten households are estimated to have a worse economy with government and Ylva Johansson's policies. The Ministry of Finance himself said six out of ten households when the budget was presented. It does not really correlate with the answer I have received from Ylva Johansson that most are not affected. Income tax will be increased for 1.2 million wage and salary earners. It will be more expensive to hire young people as well as older people. The gas tax's going up. RUT and ROT deductions are deteriorating and the world's highest marginal tax rate is introduced. Madam President, I would like It is not just a measure that leads to a deterioration of the household economy for the vast majority, but there are many. It's the government's policy as a whole. What effects does Ylva Johansson see of this on the Swedish labour market? What is the government's message to all those citizens who can look forward to celebrating Christmas and New Year with a government that has run the Alliance's budget but who must then comply with the government's own budget and a deteriorating household economy?
i-b15adbd24998b523-121	Madam President, I would like Christian Holm Barenfeld wants to talk about the wallet issues, about the household economy. Here's my wallet. The most important thing in it is the pictures of my children. What we do in our budget is invest heavily in a better school. This cannot be bought by itself with another hundred quid in tax cuts, but requires joint investment. We invest in teachers, in teachers' skills, in the attractiveness of the teaching profession, in smaller children's groups and in smaller classes. We also invest in care for the elderly and in many other important things on which many people depend. We also give a substantial boost to the families and individuals who had it hardly during the old government's time. We are strengthening for the unemployed with compensation from the unemployment fund. We reinforce for the single parents. We are strengthening for pensioners, especially for those who are the most deprived. What we do with our economic policy is to level out gaps by investing most in those who have the worst. At the same time, these investments contribute to job growth, because we know that these households will spend their money to a large extent on consumption. It is sad that Christian Holm Barenfeld is so concerned about the development, but it is of course free to be so. Many others rejoice as unemployment falls and falls faster than many thought. Youth unemployment has fallen by over 3 percentage points in one year. Well, at least I'm happy about that. This will mean that fewer young people will need a labour market policy measure to achieve the 90-day guarantee. I think that's good.
i-b15adbd24998b523-128	Madam President, I would like Yes, it is sad to have to be concerned about developments in the Swedish labour market and Swedish politics. It is good that the Government believes in its own policy. It would be terrible if I didn't. But I'm afraid we don't agree. Of course we can see improvements in the area of unemployment, which is a good thing. I don't think the government is deliberately working to change that. From day one, according to the Government itself, the government has governed a different policy but with the Alliance's budget. But as little as we could stand here in October 2006 or in January 2007 and say that everything good was a Sven Otto Littorin effect, or then Hillevi Engström effect or Elisabeth Svantesson effect, you can say that everything that has happened this year is a Ylva Johansson effect. This also applies to what has been difficult, difficult and not so positive. The policy that the government is laying the foundations for through its budget may not have an effect today, tomorrow, next week and perhaps even in January or June next year because it takes time to change. However, we note that 1.2 million households receive increased income tax with the government's budget. Eight out of ten suffers from a deterioration in household finances. Even when Minister of Finance Magdalena Andersson himself is counting on it, six out of ten have reduced household finances. Deteriorated household finances are not good. It reduces consumption, and we know the effects of that. I could also hold up my wallet. I have important things in it. Ylva Johansson is probably thicker than mine, but I also have it better than many others. It is good that you invest in school, education and care for the elderly. But if jobs do not increase, if people's household economy does not increase, if income does not increase and if those who work do not grow and earn more, there is less money to invest in what we all think is so important, such as school, education, care for the elderly and infrastructure. Now we have a great challenge in ensuring that those who come here because of war and oppression enter the labour market. Then it's important that there's work. In this area the Alliance delivered. I'm sure we could deliver even more. We have many suggestions on how to increase the number of jobs and how to make it more profitable to work compared to not doing so. That's how we work. Then there was a financial crisis that never comes up when government representatives talk. In fact, however, more people, some 340 000 more, worked in Sweden in the 2014 elections than in the 2006 elections.
i-b15adbd24998b523-138	Madam President, I would like Christian Barenfeld has asked an important question. It's about two parts: it's job growth – how we get more jobs to grow in Sweden – and then we have an important issue that is linked to it, namely the deterioration in household finances that we see resulting from the government's budget. We see that debt has increased in recent years, despite the fact that we have had financial unrest. Eight out of ten are getting worse with the government budget, just as Christian Holm Barenfeld said. Sweden is heading in the wrong direction with the government's policy in this area. You've had eight years to prepare, Ylva Johansson. You've been running for a year with the Alliance's budget. You've said on a number of occasions that you're gonna get the jobs. That is why I wonder what reforms will increase the number of jobs. This definitely affects people who are excluded from the labour market, which in turn affects households' finances. My question is: what jobs has the Minister for Labour fixed, linked to the reforms?
i-b15adbd24998b523-142	Madam President, I would like Let me answer the questions. What direct effect do we see from the fact that those who earn the most get a little increased income tax? Well, the direct effect is that we can invest in school and in their children's and everyone's children's schooling. We are going to reverse a development that is very negative. Swedish school has had a negative development for several years. School results have fallen dramatically. It is not an easy thing to turn around, and it will take time. But it's time we did it now. Instead of spending money on tax cuts for those who are best off, we will invest in what is good for children and for society and on what is vital for jobs, namely a good school and good development. I have debated with Jenny Petersson many times, but I can say it again: labour market policy does not create the new jobs, but labour market policy can ensure that we get a match that allows the job vacancies to be filled. When companies can get the necessary staff, they can expand in the way they want, accept a new order and face new challenges. This creates new jobs. In addition, investments are required, something that has been neglected for many years in Sweden. But now the government is investing in housing, infrastructure and transition to a more climate-smart society and is also investing very heavily in education.
i-b15adbd24998b523-148	Madam President, I would like There are very few debates with social democrats, whether it is with Ylva Johansson, Patrik Björck or anyone else, where they do not say they want to increase the tax for those who earn the most. But Sweden is already doing well in the tax league. Even if they now want to do so, they make the assessment that we are doing extremely well in Sweden. But 1.2 million employees are affected by the government's tax increases in the New Year. Again, eight out of ten households suffer from a deterioration in their finances. This is not the way we want to give the impression that it is high income earners, managers and stock market CEOs who are affected. They are also affected, but also ordinary households with average employees who have completely ordinary jobs and what we all consider to be a normal everyday life are affected. The major tax cuts that the government criticises are the job tax deduction. That is what allowed more people to keep more of what they earn in their wallets and to give the greatest benefit to those who earn the least. That is also why the government leaves it behind. But they try to take back the thousand or the 1,500 kronor that each employee got in the wallet of the Treasury in other ways and thus deliver a worse household economy. I am concerned about the jobs in this situation, based on the deterioration that is directed at average Swedes' household finances and at jobs.
i-b15adbd24998b523-153	Madam President, I would like The most important thing today for our children's future is that more people have a job to go to in Sweden. During the Alliance, new jobs were created. We had a major reform agenda. It went quickly, perhaps too quickly sometimes, but it moved forward and we had reforms in this area. It is necessary, because if we are to cope with our common welfare, it is important that more people have a job to go to, not less. You need to work up to your age. That's why we have an agenda where we put jobs first. This is not the case with the Minister for Employment and the Government. Ylva Johansson says she's not the one who's gonna get the jobs. That is to back down further from what has been said. It backs off from job fixing, from the 90-day guarantee and from the goal of having the EU's lowest unemployment rate. I find that regrettable. I expect and hope that the government will prioritise job growth. Sweden needs that. The government also needs to work with the household economy for Sweden's residents. I can only regret that eight out of ten are getting worse with the government's budget. We need proposals that go in a different direction and put jobs first.
i-b15adbd24998b523-158	Madam President, I would like No, Christian Holm Barenfeld, the government does not make the assessment that we have it too good, on the contrary. If we had lived in the best of worlds, we wouldn't have needed any tax increases. Tax has no intrinsic value. Tax revenues are used to finance welfare, education and investment. Unfortunately, the decline in welfare is large, and the need for development is very great in terms of quality in school. The need for investment in jobs is great and the social gaps are too great. Then also those who earn the most need to be involved in paying a little more.
i-b15adbd24998b523-160	Madam President, I would like Elisabeth Svantesson has asked me how the government ensures that the activities of social enterprises can continue to grow when the employment phase is phased out. Social enterprises whose activities and objectives are about creating societal benefits are important tools for meeting specific societal challenges. These entrepreneurs and companies are run on a commercial basis and can operate in many different areas, but in common they measure success in social welfare rather than in money and profit maximization. The profit is usually reinvested entirely in own or similar activities. Today, labour-integrated social enterprises are making a major effort to create jobs for people who have been unemployed for a long time. Integrated social enterprises pursue business activities with the overall objective of integrating people who have major difficulties in obtaining or maintaining a job in society and working life, where employees usually receive different types of labour market policy support. Many social enterprises are also stage 3 organisers of the Job and Development Guarantee. The state has in various ways provided funding support for cooperative development since 1983. According to the Regulation(2001:1194) on State aid for cooperative development, etc. grants may be awarded to cooperative development centres whose main task is to provide advice and information necessary for, during and after the start-up of cooperative and other similar undertakings. Grants may also be provided to stimulate local and regional development work focusing on entrepreneurship and to develop new activities and methods. In 2015, SEK 36 million was made available in accordance with this regulation. It is also important to mention in this context the 2014-2020 National Social Fund Programme. The Social Fund programme allows for labour market widening, inter alia, through social entrepreneurship, with the aim of creating new innovative pathways into working life for people who are far from the labour market. This could involve supporting work integration social enterprises. The priority given in the Social Fund programme to people who are far from the labour market, together with support for business start-ups, provides opportunities for projects that can create jobs through social enterprises. As a recent example of a social fund project with bearing on the social economy, the Swedish ESF Council in 2015 has decided on a preliminary study on civil society and the role of the social economy in labour market policy. I believe that work integration social enterprises should be able to continue to play a very important role in giving those furthest away from the labour market a way back. The government will continue its dialogue with labour-integrated social enterprises.
i-b15adbd24998b523-166	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Employment, for your answer. I can say that the answer is good in many ways. That explains to those who listen to the debate what social enterprises are, so I do not need to spend time on that. The only thing I could not sign on myself is the last paragraph, which is also why I have written this interpellation. The Minister for Labour says that she believes that these companies continue to play a very important role and says that the dialogue will continue. However, making that assessment and continuing the dialogue is not the same as talking about what you intend to do to enable social enterprises to actually operate in Sweden. There are few things that are as amazing as making visits to companies and other businesses and meeting people who have been outside the labour market for a very long time. You may have had a long-term illness and get to come back, try a job, be a part of it and feel: Here I have a place, here I am in a community, here it means something that I come in the morning. In many social enterprises, it is precisely the kind of stories that meet you. People that someone had hidden, someone had forgotten and someone had not asked for have now got a place, an important part of a business. Social enterprises are involved in the democratic process. Many are members of the Economic Association and are allowed to attend board meetings and drive the development forward. It is indeed important companies and an important part of both economic and labour market policies to provide more jobs. The problem right now is that there is enormous uncertainty among social enterprises in Sweden. When you talk to different actors in the field, it is precisely the uncertainty that the government is now able to create that is problematic. It is social enterprises that have given notice of employees. There is great uncertainty about what is happening. The employment phase shall be phased out. What happens to us, how will our role be affected, what will happen to wrist support and so on? The absence of practical, concrete information creates enormous uncertainty. Long-term unemployment is one of the worst in the Swedish labour market. I believe that I and the Minister for Labour are very much in agreement on this. But then it must also provide tools to seriously help people to get back from long-term sickness and long-term unemployment. Social enterprises are an important way forward. Then we must do everything we can to make it easier for these companies and not create uncertainty and thus make it more difficult. Nevertheless, I would like to give the Minister for Labour the opportunity to tell us here today what the government intends to do in concrete terms. What information do you have for social enterprises, so that they know that they can actually work on the future and do not have to give notice or write short agreements, but can actually think of remaining on the Swedish labour market? I would like to ask the Minister that question.
i-b15adbd24998b523-174	Madam President, I would like This is an important issue raised by Elisabeth Svantesson. But it is not easy to answer the question. I will come back to the answer to the specific question. Social enterprises in general and labour-integrated social enterprises in particular are, of course, enterprises. They're supposed to be able to live as a business. That is why it is important for me to work closely with Minister for Enterprise and Innovation Mikael Damberg on these issues. It is clear that labour market policy measures are not the basis for social enterprises to be able to operate. But labour market policy measures are and can be very important, and therefore it is important to see their role. When we phase out phase 3, other efforts for those individuals who have the most difficulty in gaining a foothold in the labour market will be made. I can see that many of the social enterprises and labour-integrated social enterprises will have the opportunity to take part in them or be the performers of them. But Elisabeth Svantesson also knows that it is not the government that decides who. It is the individual who has a support and who is placed or has the opportunity to make a contribution or be employed somewhere, and where the employment is to take place it is not the government that decides. Activities that exist and that will exist are, for example, work training. Then you are out in a workplace, such as a work integration social enterprise, and there is mentor support for those who help you train, in order for that person to get closer to the labour market. There is also special employment support, which is quite generous support with both a very high level of pay subsidy and mentor support. This can be considered for individuals who are currently in phase 3. There's pay-as-you-go. When I last met the work-inclusive social enterprises, that was the issue they raised the most. They wanted to see more investment in wage subsidies. We are now increasing the number of salary contributions in the budget that Parliament is about to consider, and we are also doing another review of salary contributions to make them better suited for more development within the framework of a wage subsidy employment. These are examples of action in the field of labour market policy which, I believe, can be considered for many of the individuals currently in phase 3. I feel quite confident that many of the work-inclusive social enterprises will be considered as a performer or employer in these cases. But just as Elisabeth Svantesson knows, it is not the Minister who decides where an individual should be hired or where an individual should train.
i-b15adbd24998b523-181	Madam President, I would like No, that's right, of course. But it is very relevant and important what signals a government is sending, and right now uncertainty is created, because you do not know what is coming instead and how to solve the situation. I fully share the view of the Minister for Employment that this is, first and foremost and very much, a matter of nutrition. These are companies that should be run on a business basis with a good business idea – that's like the whole point. But it is unique in that it also has a large part of labour market policy and that people who have been outside for a long time also have an opportunity to enter. During the time of the alliance government, we developed an action plan for these social enterprises. You can say a lot about it. However, the share of social enterprises doubled over a few years, and it still produced results. The government wrote in its letter of regulation something that I thought was very wise. There it was said that the Swedish Agency for Growth, together with Arbetsförmedlingen and Försäkringskassan, would design and implement a programme to support the development of these social enterprises. The assignment is about both review and adaptation of regulations. And we see opportunities for financing for the promotion, start-up and development of businesses. In addition, the Swedish Agency for Growth was tasked with increasing information efforts on social economy and social enterprise. I think there are two very good things that this government did. That was great. It also shows how important the growth and nutritional perspective is. The problem is that I have now been told that this mission has been withdrawn. Then I would like to ask the Minister for Employment: how is it that this mission, which you have rewritten in your letter of regulation, has been withdrawn? Does this not seem to be a business issue any more, as the Minister for Employment has now said? Is this just a matter for the Ministry of Labour? It gives me a little bit of a double signal. This was a good assignment for the Swedish Agency for Growth to work with the other authorities on this. We need a solid basis for social enterprises to stand on.
i-b15adbd24998b523-186	Madam President, I would like I share the view that there is also a need for a policy approach to employment integration in social enterprises. It is good that we agree on that. I cannot answer the question about the Swedish Agency for Growth's letter of regulation. I may refer you to the minister responsible. But that is also why I and the Minister for Enterprise and Industry are working closely together on these issues and will take joint initiatives. I would also like to mention another issue on which the government is working, namely the possibilities of special treatment for social enterprises. In a legislative referral on the new procurement framework, we have proposed that a contracting authority be allowed to reserve participation in a procurement procedure for certain so-called social enterprises. It does not currently exist in current procurement legislation. The government is working on developing a bill based on this. It would be an additional opportunity to target specific public procurements to this type of company. This would seem to be on a commercial basis, but it would still be possible to bid in particular in certain contracts. I think it can be an important piece of the puzzle among the many things that need to be done in order to further facilitate work integration social enterprises.
i-b15adbd24998b523-189	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Employment for that answer. That is good, but more needs to be done for social enterprises. The Minister for Labour himself expressed that this is about a vulnerable group and people who have been outside for a long time. That is why I think it is so important to deal with this issue. It is important and relevant to give clear answers from the beginning. We have and have had different views on the employment phase. You're phasing it out. I'll let this government do that. But it is always important to have alternatives. To shout loudly for several years about its decommissioning and then, when we come to the day when you start to phase out, have no real alternatives I find very difficult for this group. It creates uncertainty not only for these companies but mainly for the people involved in these various actions. I would think that everyone who is currently in the employment phase will not have an additional service, but a variety of tools are needed. Social enterprises are important and will be important. I can promise social enterprises and those who work there that I will continue to ask the government questions on this particular issue because I think it is so important. We must not lose momentum when we finally see social enterprises starting to bloom. Now that they're giving notice when we have this government, I'm worried. Madam President, I would like I think the Arbetsförmedlingen needs to have a special program to work on these issues. The skills and knowledge at the agencies are very different in terms of work integration social enterprises. That is something if we have highlighted, and I think that the government too should start to think about it. I would therefore like to ask the Minister for Employment, in conclusion, how she feels about this.
i-b15adbd24998b523-195	Madam President, I would like I welcome Elisabeth Svantesson to ask more questions about this. That's good. It is an important issue in which the opposition should keep pressure on the government, and we will have to do more. I'll answer the questions about what happens to people in phase 3. I do not think that there is much uncertainty among these people. On the contrary, new opportunities are now being opened up, especially great opportunities for education. You can study in principle what you want for a year while maintaining compensation. We invest in many different types of employment, and extra services are one. But these are also other forms of employment, such as wage subsidies or employment with special employment support or, for that matter, employment without subsidies. We also make several other efforts in preparing for studies, and we look at work training and other efforts for the individuals. Of course, it is a uncertainty for work integration social enterprises when a measure in which you are an actor in relation to the Public Employment Service is phased out and new measures come where you do not yet know if you will become an actor. However, I believe that there is a good chance that many of the employment-integrated social enterprises will be.
i-b15adbd24998b523-198	Madam President, I would like Elisabeth Svantesson has asked me if it is my assessment that the government will be able to keep the election promise that Sweden will have the lowest unemployment rate throughout the EU by 2020 given that the Swedish Public Employment Service is unable to create the education contracts, extra services and trainee services on which the government's budget proposal is based. The government's employment policy is broad. Investments in jobs are made through an active business and innovation policy for more and growing companies, investments in infrastructure, housing and climate change, and investments in skills and matching. The government is carrying out a series of reforms in the labour market and education area to increase employment and reduce unemployment permanently. Education and training are crucial for preventing people from becoming unemployed and for people to have the necessary knowledge and skills. This is why training efforts are being carried out that increase the ambition of adult learning, as well as of education and training in labour market policy. In order to speed up the establishment of new arrivals and shorten the time from arrival to work, the Government is also making efforts that will lead to a faster establishment of new arrivals in the labour market, including fast track, validation efforts, supplementary training courses and an increase in the compensation to the municipalities for the reception of new arrivals. The government is also implementing a series of active measures for the long-term unemployed and persons with disabilities with reduced work capacity, which will strengthen their job opportunities. The additional services, together with other labour market policy activities, including subsidised employment, training and traineeships, will help to increase the number of long-term unemployed and to phase out the employment phase during the term of office. Trainee jobs will increase the possibility for young people to enter the labour market while facilitating employers' recruitment of people with the right skills. The training contracts aim to ensure that unemployed young people start or return to studies with the aim of completing their upper secondary education. The new trainee jobs, training contracts and additional services require collaboration between the Public Employment Service, municipalities and the social partners. The government is working broadly to mobilise actors at local, regional and central levels so that more young people, newly arrived and unemployed people can be given access to education and jobs. The Delegation for Youth to Work (A 2014:06) promotes public and municipal cooperation as well as the development of new forms of cooperation. This work will, inter alia, contribute to a greater impact of the new labour market policies at local level, thereby helping more people to combine work, education and training. At the same time, we are experiencing changing conditions for labour market policy. The economic cycle is improving. Total unemployment and youth unemployment are falling sharply. According to the latest Labour Force Survey, since last year employment has increased by 81 000, 40 000 less are unemployed and unemployment has fallen by 0.8 percentage points. Young people's unemployment has fallen by 3.1 percentage points over the past year. The number of long-term unemployed is 21,000 lower than a year ago. We are also facing new challenges with the increase in the number of asylum seekers. According to the European Commission's latest forecast, both employment and labour supply are expected to increase in Sweden as a result of the increase in the number of new arrivals, but it also sees that successful integration of new arrivals into the labour market can act as a driver for further economic growth in the medium term. The government is committed to the need for further measures to meet the challenges of the labour market. My assessment is that the government's overall employment policy will contribute to higher employment and lower unemployment in the coming years. Training contracts, trainee jobs and additional services remain important efforts to achieve these goals.
i-b15adbd24998b523-210	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Employment for his answer. Yeah, what do you say? The fact that members of the government do not believe in their own policies does not seem to be entirely unusual at the moment. We hear government members say that their own politics are shit, that it's wrong and so on. Others back very strongly from promises they have made and goals they have had, and that is a bit of what I want us to discuss during this debate. At least that is what I intend to ask the Minister for Labour about. Based on the interpellation I made, several weeks ago now, it is clear that Arbetsförmedlingen says that it will be difficult to reach up to what the government has planned. I want to take us a little more than a year back in time. 2014 was the year when there were a few and according to the Social Democrats surely powerful mantra. One of them was about the unemployment case. I and Ylva Johansson debated this many times, and we did it in many different ways around the country. Later it turned out that there would be no big problem to reach, because now we had a new government and a new minister. The goal would be achieved through three actions in particular; it was very clear during the election campaign. It was about trainee jobs, extra services and the 90-day guarantee. Now I get the feeling that the government is backing away from all this. Since the writing of this interpellation, a great deal has happened. In an article in Dagens Industri not long ago, we could read that the government is now likely to abandon the unemployment target, that is, by 2020 we will have the lowest unemployment rate in the EU. I have no problem with the government abandoning that goal – I thought it was strangely worded from the beginning – but I would like to ask the Minister for Labour if that is true. Is it the case that the government abandons the case? The objective has received criticism from many quarters, and I do not really believe that any other than the Social Democrats initially believed that the government could achieve it. Heavy researchers have criticized it, because it is basically about that it is enough for other countries to do a very bad job so that Sweden will still come out well. That is why the unemployment target itself is not a good one. Nevertheless, I would like to ask whether the government is abandoning the unemployment case. Can we have an answer to that once and for all, the Minister for Employment?
i-b15adbd24998b523-216	Madam President, I would like Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson says in his reply that the government's employment policy is broad. When I hear that and when I hear the government talking about jobs, job agendas and unemployment targets, I get it wrong in my ears. Ylva Johansson says in her reply that the economic cycle is improving and unemployment and youth unemployment are falling. Yes, that's right. That is one of the findings I can agree with on the answer. However, there is no government intervention that has led to this reduction; rather, it is about Sweden and Sweden's business and more tough on. Then we can add two parameters: we have had a government that has been running the Alliance budget for a year, which is one reason why the tax increases have not yet taken place. We can also note that the 90-day guarantee has not functioned as the government wanted. I note, as I said, that Swedish economic growth will increase at a good pace over the next few years. Employment will increase and unemployment will fall. But this is happening uphill, because it is happening despite the fact that the government is going to bring forward reforms that have a brake on this area. We can talk about taxes on a broad front – that's where taxes were whispered. The employment tax deduction will be scaled down, and the state tax threshold will be adjusted up. The island tax for persons over 65 years of age will be reintroduced. We can also talk about increased employers' contributions for young people. The RUT deduction will be halved, and the ROT deduction will be passed. Yes, it is 36 billion dollars in increased taxes for entrepreneurs, who in turn will be paid by everyone in that country. Of all the increases, 2% go back to industrial policy. As Elisabeth Svantesson said, the unemployment case was highlighted as a mantra in the election movement. The jobs were supposed to be fixed. Now we have heard in a previous post that it is not the Minister for Labour who is going to fix the jobs, but nevertheless the 90-day guarantee for young people – with training contracts, trainee services and extra services – has been put forward precisely to fix the jobs and ensure that the unemployment target is reached. I note that Sweden is heading in the wrong direction, and I note that the government is presenting reforms that slow down the good growth and development we are still seeing in Sweden. The question I have for the Minister for Labour is: Is she sticking to the unemployment case? It's a simple question to answer-- yes or no.
i-b15adbd24998b523-222	Madam President, I would like The debate does not sound and will not sound completely different from the debate on jobs, household finances and other things I had earlier. It is linked, and it is, of course, within the sphere of the Minister for Labour. This is about the fact that the goal of achieving the EU's lowest unemployment rate by 2020 is linked to the other issues we have discussed during the day, regarding labour market policy and the government's inability to acquire or not provide regulations that enable employers to ensure that jobs are created. It is, in fact, primarily in companies, not least in small and medium-sized enterprises, that new jobs are created. Some of these companies – or quite a few, especially in the case of the new companies – are, for example, in sectors covered by RUT and ROT. They are now suffering deterioration through government policy. In terms of having the lowest youth unemployment rate, it is of course also affected by a reduction in employers' contributions for young people and all those parts. There has been talk of trainee jobs – or rather the trainee job, i.e. the trainee job that exists. The Minister has said that it will also apply to new arrivals, and we will see how it will be and how it works. As Elisabeth Svantesson said, the goal would thus be achieved through the trainee job, the extra jobs and the 90-day guarantee. Ylva Johansson has also said in this Chamber and in interviews in the newspaper that all new arrivals will have jobs within two years, and we know that a large proportion of new arrivals are young people. Having said that, I would like to know whether the Government maintains that the Swedish youth unemployment rate should be the lowest throughout the EU by 2020, as Mr Löfven has said. It costs and, in that case, demands one or two measures that actually make sure that the jobs become more. I think it is reasonable not to have that particular objective. On the other hand, it is important both for employment to be higher and for unemployment to be lower for our young people.
i-b15adbd24998b523-226	Madam President, I would like Labour market policy should, in my opinion, be pragmatic and adapt to reality and the development of the labour market. The government has not abandoned its unemployment target. But to be honest, this autumn we have experienced that a record number of people have gone to Sweden to seek asylum and that it continues to be a record number. We receive many more per capita than any other country in the EU. This, of course, will make it more difficult in the long term to achieve the objectives. Something else would be false to say. The measures proposed by the government – training contracts, trainee jobs and additional services – will be needed. The labour market is now doing well, because new jobs are being created. Over 80,000 new jobs were created in the last year. We have a record number of vacancies. We've never had as many vacancies as we have right now. Employment is increasing and unemployment is falling. Then we also see that the composition of the unemployed is likely to change quite soon. It is clear that it must also, in my view, influence which labour market policy measures are appropriate to use. I believe that the single most important measure taken by the government in the field of labour market policy is to liberalise the Public Employment Service, to provide it with greater flexibility and opportunities for professional employment intermediaries to make decisions on the basis of which actions work in a particular situation for a particular individual and to re-assign work so that work with employers becomes the most important thing for the Public Employment Service. I see no intrinsic value in the fact that people are in labour market policy measures if they can get jobs in the regular labour market without action. It is, of course, a good thing in that case. At the moment, youth unemployment is falling very rapidly, especially among those with upper secondary skills. This may affect the demand for trainee jobs for unemployed young people. They may be smaller than we thought when youth unemployment was higher. In return, we see new groups coming into the labour market soon, and it is the new arrivals who come on a larger scale than we expected. It is clear that it must also have an impact on the way in which labour market policy is designed. One way we are now working is fast track. I think it is a good way to tailor solutions for individuals so that they can use the expertise they have with them when they come to Sweden. I see in my view that other re-priorities in labour market policy also need to be made in order to meet a changing reality. As the labour market changes, labour market policy must take this into account, I mean. When the terrain changes, the map needs to be adapted.
i-b15adbd24998b523-235	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister of Labour, for the straight answer we have received that the government is not backing away from its unemployment target. Then we can leave that question. Another issue that was very hot throughout last year, and where the government was at a high level, was the question of the stakes. I understand a little of the answer given by the Minister for Labour that some of the efforts are still being worked on. Trainee jobs have so far only become one, but let's hope there are a few more. It is even the case that I hope for it, even though I do not think that this is such a good effort. But if you're gonna get them in place, it's good if more than one person has them. I don't really understand the discussion right now. One should certainly be pragmatic. When the labour market and the situation change, politics must keep up – that is the case. The economic cycle is now up, and we should be very happy about that, and employment is continuing to increase. It increased despite a recession earlier, but it continues to increase now – great. Unemployment is falling. The great challenge – and I have said this for many years – is not the short one, but the long unemployment, that is, those who have been unemployed for six or twelve months. However, of the group of young people who have been enrolled in the Employment Service for more than 12 months, there were more than 15 000 unemployed this year and about 15 000 last year. It separates a few hundred people. There really isn't much difference. That is why I think that the Minister for Employment at this point is making the situation look good. Many young people still stand far outside and, of course, need to get in. The unemployment target remains unchanged. Then the next question is the 90-day guarantee. There are a huge number of quotes that I could use here in Parliament – I will not use my speaking time for it right now – which have been used by the Prime Minister and the Minister for Labour on the 90-day guarantee. That was the first decision the government would make. It is possible that the decision has been taken. But where's the 90-day guarantee? The 90-day guarantee would help all young people. And Stefan Löfven said many times last year that this was the first decision and that no young person would go unemployed or stand outside for more than 90 days. This is a promise you made a very long time ago. Then I wonder: Does the government stand by the 90-day guarantee? If so, when will the 90-day guarantee be in place?
i-b15adbd24998b523-241	Madam President, I would like The Minister for Labour has replied that the unemployment target is maintained. The question then arises: how is the objective of unemployment to be achieved when we see the taxes which are being imposed on a broad front and which the government calls investment? The Minister for Labour talked about the flows of refugees that we are looking at Sweden. It will also be a challenge to achieve the unemployment targets. Lars Calmfors has said, among other things, that it was the nail in the coffin for the government's work goal. It was impossible already before, but now it becomes completely hopeless, I think it was he said. The Social Democrats have now been in government for a year and are sticking to the unemployment target. How is the lowest unemployment rate to be achieved in the EU 2020 target? Ylva Johansson says to look at reality. Yes, looking at the reality, we can see how many of the 32 000 promised trainee services there were. SVT recently reported that it had become one. It can be seen as a failure. You say you can redraw the map a little. I note that this government lacks both a map and a compass to get more jobs to grow in Sweden.
i-b15adbd24998b523-246	Madam President, I would like I would, of course, have had full understanding if one had chosen not to set this target for 2020. We are facing major challenges at the moment, and we all work, want to take responsibility and try to make the best of the situation when it comes to receiving refugees. Sweden has taken a great responsibility, but we believe that we should also take a great responsibility in the future to help people who flee from persecution, oppression and war. But the job case is not about that, and it was impossible from the start. I do not think I have heard a single serious judge who has judged that the objective could be achieved. There was a large Sifo survey, and these can always be discussed. It is opinion polls that show that some have confidence in governments while others do not. However, over 90 percent believed that the government would fail, and yet it must be a record in itself that so many lands on that conclusion. In order to get close to the target and ensure that as many young people as possible get to work, it is necessary to deliver. The government had its great proposals and promises in the form of trainee jobs, additional services and the 90-day guarantee. In the beginning, it was 32,000 trainee jobs. Later it was revised to be 590 this year, 7 000 next year and 10 700 thereafter. There was a trainee job this year out of a total of 590. With the same exchange, there will be twelve next year and 18 the following year. That's a total of 31. Even if that objective is achieved, it is not enough.
i-b15adbd24998b523-251	Madam President, I would like Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson has been asked by Elisabeth Svantesson if she believes that the government will reach its unemployment target. The Minister for Labour clearly says that the government has not abandoned that objective. That ambition, of course, remains. As the situation has developed, it has become a tougher challenge, but it is the Government's ambition to achieve that goal. During a number of interventions we have heard how different moderates are surprised, not only Elisabeth Svantesson but also other colleagues, that a government dares to stretch its bow, that a government dares to have ambitious goals. I am not surprised by that, Madam President, because when Elisabeth Svantesson was Minister for Labour, she had no goals at all, nor did she achieve anything. If you are going somewhere, if you are going to succeed in something, you must of course have ambitious goals. That the Moderates are concerned or think it is strange that a Social Democratic government has ambitious goals for labour market policy, I think is no wonder, because the Moderates have no ambitions at all. If we cannot agree that it is good to have a government that wants a lot, that does a lot and that will achieve a lot, if we cannot agree on it, Madam President, I would like to ask Elisabeth Svantesson whether we could agree otherwise. If the target is not good, there is another goal. Elisabeth Svantesson has a goal. The Alliance has a goal. Elisabeth Svantesson and the Alliance's goal is to reach 5 million employees by 2020, and since Elisabeth Svantesson has come up with this goal herself, it must be a very good one. Now I may not be so convinced of it, but we can assume that Elisabeth Svantesson thinks it is a good goal. My fully justified question to Elisabeth Svantesson is whether, when Ylva Johansson and the Social Democratic-led government have passed the Alliance's 5 million-year-old employment target by 2020, we will get the Alliance's respect and if Elisabeth Svantesson will then request time in the Chamber and place an interpellation with the Minister for Labour in which she pays tribute to the Minister for Labour for having passed the Alliance's own job goal well before 2020. According to AKU, SCB's measurement of unemployment, the current government and Ylva Johansson have reached an employment figure of 4,837,000 – we are talking about the second quarter of 2015. To beat Elisabeth Svantesson's goal, Ylva Johansson has five years. I think we can say without much difficulty that we will see the government succeed in doing so, and then I would really like El isabeth Svantesson to be honest and honest and to pay tribute to the government because, on the road to achieving its tough goal, it actually passed the Alliance's goal by far.
i-b15adbd24998b523-257	Madam President, I would like There's a lot going on about the trainee jobs. I'll take it in peace. The contracts for trainee jobs in the municipal and county councils sector were completed about two weeks ago. It will take some time – as I have said several times – to get good combinations of vocational training and work. But the difficulty of getting them around is no reason not to. That's exactly what it takes. We need several measures that combine employment with vocational training in the future. We'll see more trainee jobs emerge. However, as I see it today, the need will not be as great for the youth group as it was when we first set the target. I take Elisabeth Svantesson's question about the 90-day guarantee very seriously. I fully share the view that the young people who are far from the labour market are the long-term unemployed and, above all – there is a clear link – those who lack upper secondary skills. They are in a very difficult position in the labour market. There is often a reason why you lack upper secondary school skills. It can be a combination of difficulties – disease picture, disability, diagnoses, social problems, bullying in school. There may be many different reasons why a young person has not completed his or her upper secondary education within the expected time. These young people are a major challenge. That is why we need to work together and have a flexible policy. We call training contracts the action we have taken. In fact, it is an effort in which there is a great deal of flexibility as to what action can be taken. The only thing that is required is that it works, that it leads to getting closer and to a completed upper secondary school education. To achieve this, there are many possible combinations of efforts. When working with young people, municipalities are a very important partner of the Employment Service. The municipalities and the Employment Service must pool their resources. Unlike the previous 100-day guarantee, where responsibility was left to the municipalities, we do not do that. We have learned from the mistakes that were made. Responsibility remains with Arbetsförmedlingen, but we have invited the municipalities to cooperate. 286 of Sweden's municipalities have accepted such cooperation. They are currently working on mapping all young people between the ages of 16 and 25 who are not working or studying. It is being done to see who they are, what they are doing and what challenges are required for us to cope with these young people. There is also an inventory and a division between the municipalities and the Public Employment Service to see what is done today, what works well and who should do what, to avoid a situation where responsibility is shuffled between the state and the municipality. Instead, resources are pooled together. The contracts that will form the basis of the work will be completed in December, but already at the beginning of November, more than one hundred municipalities and the Swedish Public Employment Service had come in with their contracts and agreements regarding the survey. Why is the survey important? Because the 90-day guarantee, of which it is an important part, should not be introduced in such a way as to have an action immediately after 90 days, whether it works or not. I think this is a dangerous way of controlling politics. A young person has to be given a job that really leads to work and education. It is therefore important that this is done in a carefully thought-out way. The fact that the cooperation between Arbetsförmedlingen and the municipality is organised is very important. It is an important building block in order to introduce a 90-day guarantee.
i-b15adbd24998b523-267	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister for Employment, for another answer! The 90-day guarantee is not abandoned. That's how I see it. I want to get back to what I started with. We had a high tone during the election campaign. We had a high tone last autumn too. A host of promises would be fulfilled. I can see that the government is now hiding a little behind the word pragmatism. The government is also hiding a little behind the expression, and it is good that you think through and do not hurry. My tip is to always in opposition prepare their proposals so that they are well thought out and can be implemented as soon as one comes into government position. It has been 14 months since the 2014 elections. It has been even more months since all these promises began to take off and spread. Of course, many young people wonder. Although I do not share the view that it is a good policy, I can understand that many young people wonder what is happening now. The promises were very loud, I would say. Let me give a few brief tips to the Minister for Labour. I believe that labour market policy fills a part. But it seems the Minister sees that that's not all. We need employment policy. I'm afraid the government is missing that. Young people who lack education and are born abroad are the two groups that have the most difficulty getting in. We need to do more to get them to work. Education is good – I share that picture – but we need more ways into the labour market. The new exclusion requires new solutions, such as a new form of employment in LAS, which we propose, where you learn the job at work, where all companies can hire a person, a kind of apprenticeship job simply. We believe that this is important if we are to meet the challenge that we see. We will stand here many times in the future. It is a big challenge with more people coming to Sweden in the short term. We will need to reform and re-engage in the labour market, and we will need an even sharper employment policy. I look forward to discussing this with the Minister for Employment in the future.
i-b15adbd24998b523-273	Mr President, I would like to Elisabeth Svantesson says that a good way to work in opposition is to have goals that can be implemented when you come to the government. Elisabeth Svantesson has turned it another lap. She has set a goal that we will pursue for her long before she comes to the government.
i-b15adbd24998b523-274	Mr President, I would like to I was prepared before, and I am very much on my feet as Minister of Labour. I am well aware that the 90-day guarantee must be implemented in close cooperation with the municipalities. I immediately started a dialogue with, in principle, the political leaders of all the municipalities of the country to listen to their proposals as well. I realised that it cannot be done like the old government and sit in the Government Office and devise labour market policy measures. Dialogue with them must also be involved in implementing it in order to ensure that results are obtained. We will continue to have debates here on the various measures. Mr President, I would like to What matters to me and the government are the results. We saw that the old government promised amazing results of every new proposal it put forward. But the real result was that unemployment rose, and youth unemployment rose disastrously. I feel confident in being evaluated by the voters on the outcome of unemployment and employment when we meet the voters in 2018.
i-b15adbd24998b523-278	Mr President, I would like to Katarina Brännström has asked me how the stricter requirements for new start-up jobs affect small businesses' ability to provide the same. The conditions for most subsidised employment include the requirement that pay and employment benefits be provided under, or be equivalent to, collective agreements. For the new start jobs, there have been other conditions. Wage subsidies represent a large part of the cost of labour market policy interventions. This is reasonable because subsidised employment is one of the labour market policies that has the best impact on getting the unemployed into work in the long term. The Swedish National Audit Office stated in a report a few years ago, among other things, that new start-up jobs displace other, possibly more appropriate, subsidised forms of employment as entry-level jobs. One reason for this is, among other things, that the same requirements are not imposed on collective agreements or collective agreements and insurance for the granting of new start-up jobs. The Government considers that it is particularly important to ensure that those employed with wage support are covered by the security provided by collective agreements or equivalent collective agreements, since it is tax money paid as support to the employer. It is also important that companies do not compete under worse conditions. Within the Government Office, work is under way to introduce the requirement that employment benefits are also provided according to or equivalent to collective agreements in new start-up jobs. The Government's intention to announce the rule change early is to give all employers who are not covered by collective agreements ample time to take action on the basis of the new rules.
i-b15adbd24998b523-284	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by thanking the Minister for Employment for his answer, although that was not an answer to my question. The question raised in the interpellation was, how does the Minister of Labour think that the increased demand for a new start-up job affects small companies' ability to provide them? ..................................................... I do not know whether the Minister is unaware of the conditions and requirements of Swedish companies or has no idea how this could affect. With these proposals, the government again makes it a little more difficult for people to enter the labour market. What is also sad to hear is that you do not trust the smaller companies, or the entrepreneurs that are most often involved, who have not signed collective agreements that they are fair and capable of coping with the conditions for new start jobs. The question is whether the Minister for Labour knows whether there is any major abuse or cheating in these services. Of course, there are rogue entrepreneurs. We know that. The task of the Employment Service is to check any allowance paid to a company or employer. It should of course be checked that this is done in the right way. The Alliance government also investigated that question. It's probably in some box in the department where you can take part of it. During the 14 months that the government has now been in Rosenbad, no proposals have really been made about more jobs, new jobs, how to lower the thresholds for people to get a job, how to become simpler rules for companies or how to otherwise stimulate real jobs. In fact, it is remarkable for a government party that used to call itself a workers' party. It lacks a job policy. There is possibly a labour market policy and measures. It was very high tailing and very high tone. But we can now see that the result is rather shaky. Raised thresholds, increased taxes, increased social security contributions and other things are only what has come out. The second thing we know is being investigated, but we haven't seen it yet. In October, 45,000 had a new job, and 4,000 had an entry-level job. These are reforms carried out by the Alliance Government, which have been very successful for many years. To now demand collective agreements for all employees who have a new start job is another step to make it difficult for jobs. You can't pull all the companies over. There are those who cheat, and that is absolutely to be done. But that cheating can happen even after a change. There are many small businesses which, for various reasons, do not choose to have collective agreements but which have very good conditions for their employees. Mr President, I would like to I am concerned that the Red-Green Government is making things difficult for those who are far removed from the labour market. Those eligible for new start jobs may be fewer in the future. It's actually been a success. My question is still: What does Ylva Johansson do for more people to be able to get a new start job?
i-b15adbd24998b523-292	Mr President, I would like to If Katarina Brännström believes that collective agreements or collective agreements are an obstacle to entry into the labour market and that collective agreements are to complicate this, I think she has a bigger problem with how she sees how the Swedish labour market should be regulated. A labour market must be regulated. This can be done either through law – we have many countries that have it that way – or through collective agreements, which is the Swedish model. When we compare the two models – legal regulation or regulation through collective agreements – it is overwhelming how the labour market regulated by collective agreements brings enormous benefits compared to a regulated labour market. It provides greater flexibility. It gives responsibility to the parties where they jointly own their collective agreements. It provides an opportunity to quite quickly adapt the conditions when reality changes. If, instead, we want a regulated labour market, we can, of course, stand for that policy. Then it's news that the Moderates want to go that way instead. If, on the other hand, it is considered that the labour market regulated by collective agreements is preferable, it should also be borne in mind that collective agreements are the basis of the labour market. I find it difficult to reconcile with the view that collective agreements should be a problem. On the contrary, it is usually a matter of simplification, as many of the conditions are already in place. It is certainly not an obstacle to entry into the labour market. Katarina B gutterström glides a little on the question and wonders whether the government's proposal is a collective agreement or a collective agreement. I do not share the view that the possible success of a labour market policy can be measured by how many people participate in it or not. Subsidised employment is an expensive measure. It is a good measure when it hits the right individual at the right time. It is clear, however, that there is always a risk of having subsidised employment rather than a job that would have come off anyway, so-called deathweight cost. This is always an issue where you cannot know for sure where the limit is. So I do not share the view that one can say that a measure is a success only on the basis of how many people use it. It has to do with how well it leads to a job that the individual would not have received without subsidy. We don't really have enough knowledge to say that new start jobs are a success. I believe that with the great foresight the government has – one and a half years to acquire these conditions – all companies that do not currently have collective agreements or collective agreements and who also want to continue to employ with the help of new start-up jobs can choose to do so by acquiring these conditions.
i-b15adbd24998b523-299	Mr President, I would like to I have never said that collective agreements are an obstacle. But they become an obstacle if these requirements are imposed on all these small businesses. It is sometimes a self-employed business and sometimes a small family business, where the need to have collective agreements has not been seen. If they are to be prevented from taking in someone who needs a new start job and if there is therefore fewer new start jobs, this requirement becomes an obstacle. That is the demand it is all about – not the collective agreement. Ylva Johansson says that regulation of the labour market is important. That is strange, because it is only a little while ago that we heard the Minister for Labour say: we are liberalising the Employment Service. We are liberalising, she says, and we are highlighting it as something positive. The employment agency is a state authority, which of course must have rules. But the business community in Sweden is a free business sector, and I think that you should stay away from regulating everything that can be regulated. The question remains: how do you encourage small businesses to want to hire more people whether they are new jobs or real jobs? We have not heard a single example of this either today or before. 60% of the workplaces where there is pay subsidy have also not had collective agreements, as has been shown. I have not heard that it is being cheated in the way that you need to hunt them or put up new obstacles. As for success, I meant how many have gone from a new job to getting a real job. When I read on to this, I managed to find a figure of 35%. I don't know if there are other, later numbers. This is a little year old. This was during the crisis years 2008 – 2011, when more than a third went to real, permanent jobs. The road to a job can be very difficult for those who have been far removed from the labour market for a long time. For some, support of some kind, such as a new start job, can be just the only way in. That is why we have said that we should give more keys that open the door to the labour market and to businesses and lead to more jobs. That is what we are calling for. What comes out of the Government Office is more obstacles instead of opportunities. That's what I'm reacting to. You're raising taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship. You raise employers' contributions, and you make it harder to hire more. Then we have to ask ourselves: what success, apart from the trainee jobs, which we have not yet seen anything of, is expected to be the boost that will enable the government to meet the job goal that the Minister for Labour has just said is still going to apply? It'll be strange if this is going to take care of itself. It might be fortunate if it did so with the re forms that we have already launched, and no one would be happier than we are about it. But I suppose a government that has set such a high goal still has something in the planning for how the lift will come. It would be interesting to hear that. New start jobs were a success. It was one of the reforms that we carried out. RUT and ROT are other reforms that, like job tax deductions, have contributed to many new jobs in Sweden.
i-b15adbd24998b523-307	Mr President, I would like to Katarina Brännström has a fondness for debating collective agreements. It's not always easy to keep up with the turns. Mr President, I would like to Now Katarina Brännström says in this debate: I have never said that it is an obstacle. It is the requirement of collective agreements that is an obstacle. Collective agreements are therefore not an obstacle, but if one calls for collective agreements, it is an obstacle. It's one of those Katarina Brännströmsk formulations. Mr President, I would like to In another debate here, we discussed whether it was reasonable to impose collective agreements on foreign companies. Then Katarina Brännström burst into the expression: Why should you demand Swedish collective agreements? It doesn't matter what the collective agreement is! This type of statement and wording may be a little bit of an answer to the question. I do not think Katarina Brännström really understands what a collective agreement is and that it is possibly where you can track this slightly strange way of arguing. Katarina Brännström says, among other things, that new start-up jobs and entry-level jobs are successful reforms that the previous government has implemented. It's good if that's the case, because in the entry-level jobs, these requirements already exist. Then it becomes a little strange when it is apparently unreasonable to require decent employment conditions even for those who are employed in new jobs. It would be exciting to have a little reflection on it. Katarina Brännström also claims in her interpellation that one explanation for not being able to make demands for collective agreements is that they are not adapted to small companies. It would be exciting to hear in what way Katarina Brännström believes that small companies are not adapted to having decent employment conditions for their employees. I'm having a hard time seeing it. I have met many small companies, Mr President, who have collective agreements and who think it is both right and reasonable to offer their employees the same conditions as other employees. Here we come up with something, I think. Either Katarina Brännström does not really know how the Swedish labour market works and what collective agreements are or she simply wants us to have an A- and a B-team on the Swedish labour market and does not think that is a major obstacle. Nevertheless, I think that Katarina Brännström is guilty of the answer on two points. If new start-up jobs and entry-level jobs are successful reforms – how can it be disastrous to set the same requirements for new start-up jobs as for entry-level jobs? And in what way does she think it is impossible for small companies to sign collective agreements? I think that is reasonable for Katarina Brännström to answer about this. Does Katarina Brännström think it is reasonable that we create an A- and a B-team on the Swedish labour market? That is the consequence if this is not the way the Minister for Labour proposes – but I have not heard Katarina Brännström suggest – that the Swedish labour market model should be abolished and the legislation regulated. That could be another answer to the questions. I'm excited to hear the answers.
i-b15adbd24998b523-316	Mr President, I would like to I'm going to sort out the concepts a little bit. Now both Ylva Johansson and Patrik Björck, who come up in the speaker's chair as a letter in the post only if you say trade union or collective agreement, have called the new start jobs for labour market policy action. This is the thing about the fresh start jobs: It's real work. A labour market policy effort could perhaps be said to be the case. By definition, however, according to the Ministry itself, it is not a labour market policy measure. That's the difference. It is a job that hopefully turns into an ordinary job, which has largely happened. It is pension-based and accumulatory, and not least it has been one of the by far the most important and effective efforts for people who are slightly further away from the labour market to return to work. With Patrik Björck's rhetoric, all employers and companies that currently do not have collective agreements should belong to the B-team. I object to that. We have only recently, not myself, but at least some in this House, been in negotiations on the agreement on migration. We have discussed the issues both in committee and in this House. YA jobs are perfectly agreeable. There we shall ensure that all employers, including those not covered by collective agreements, are included. I think that's good. I think it is reasonable and important. This should continue to apply to new start jobs. It is not that they are not covered by a regulatory framework, because it is clear. New start jobs are real jobs and should be covered and applied on equal terms to all employers regardless of whether they have collective agreements or not.
i-b15adbd24998b523-320	Mr President, I would like to This is getting really exciting. Katarina Brännström says that you should not liberalise labour market policy but that you should not have rules for the labour market. I don't really know how this goes together. Does Katarina Brännström really advocate that we have an unregulated labour market, or how should I understand this? I also find it exciting to listen when Katarina Brännström said that new start jobs can become real jobs and Christian Holm Barenfeld then went up and said that new start jobs are real jobs. Perhaps there are different views in the Moderates. From the government it is clear: New start jobs are also real jobs. Subsidized jobs are also real jobs. I'm defending subsidised employment. I think we should continue to have subsidised employment. They are good tools in labour market policy. It is only a matter of ensuring that they go to the right person at the right time so that they do not have excessive displacement effects. But subsidised employment is a good thing. We're gonna keep having it. And they're also real jobs. Today, in principle, all labour market policies are subject to compliance with collective agreements or collective agreements. There's an exception, and it's the fresh start jobs. This only applies to collective bargaining. The other conditions need not be in line with collective agreements. These are insurance policies, i.e. whether to be insured or not. Why should people who have a new job have less insurance than someone who is employed in another type of subsidised employment? I'm having a bit of a hard time understanding that logic. I would like to say to Christian Barenfeld that there is a labour market policy measure that does not have this wording, and that is job creation. It says that there should be collective agreements. What we have in the agreement is that it should be collective agreements or collective agreements in the same way as we do in other subsidised employment. It's an issue to be investigated.
i-b15adbd24998b523-325	Mr President, I would like to We can discuss this with real jobs, and we have done this in the past in this House. Real jobs I have a good memory of the Social Democrats calling the jobs that were without subsidies. They almost didn't want to count the jobs that existed with subsidies during the time of the alliance government. Now Ylva Johansson says: Yes, we are supposed to have subsidies, and subsidies are good. In some situations it is, but all of these subsidies are surely aimed at people getting a job where neither employers nor employees have any compensation from the state. When it comes to new start jobs, it is the Swedish Tax Agency that you get deducted from and not the Swedish Employment Service, so we have sorted it out. Why should we have different conditions? YA jobs can be done without these conditions that are now required. It gets tricky if you want to socialise Swedish business and business by forcing all companies to have a certain level. There are many decent small companies that do not have these levels, who pay and care for their staff and who will continue to be so. As far as insurance is concerned, these exist through the employer's system. That's why the employer's contribution is as high as it is. So you do not live under any kind of uncertain conditions. But why many people want this freedom not to sign collective agreements is because they give trade union rights that sometimes hit individual small companies so hard that they find it difficult to cope with. I very much hope that we will be able to have a business that can be free without those requirements, but which can also help to give unemployed jobs, because that is what this is all about. The question remains. How are we supposed to stimulate more jobs? I have not yet heard anything about this from the government.
i-b15adbd24998b523-331	Mr President, I would like to Now it's getting more and more shrouded in fog. Katarina Brännström's aversion to collective agreements refers to her view that it is tantamount to socializing Swedish business. This means that according to Katarina Brännström's way of looking at Swedish business is most of it socialized, since most employees work under collective agreements. These are not collective agreements, but the vast majority of employees actually work on collective agreements. It is therefore to socialise Swedish business. I'm beginning to understand why Katarina Brännström doesn't like collective agreements. That's a rather bizarre thought, I must say. It would be interesting to discuss this with the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, which is actually the other party to these collective agreements. This means that Katarina Brännström believes that the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and their member organisations would have contributed to a gigantic socialization of Sweden. Another comment from Katarina Brännström is perhaps also telling. There are companies that do not have these levels," she says. Well, that's what it's all about, isn't it? You want cheaper jobs, and then it becomes an A- and a B-team, whatever you choose to call it. She also says that if small companies sign collective agreements, they give the rights that they think are too great. That is to say, you think the cost of hiring people is too high. They therefore want cheaper labour, so they do not want to sign collective agreements. It is not reasonable for an A and a B team to be created in this way. The fact that collective agreements are tantamount to socializing the Swedish business community is a remarkable claim, even to come from Katarina Brännström.
i-b15adbd24998b523-335	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Ylva Johansson, for these debates! I will begin by commending Ylva Johansson for taking the debates and doing so within the time limit. I wish many of her colleagues in government would do that too. So she's to be commended for that. In order for there to be no ambiguity: New start jobs are real jobs on all points except that the employer's contribution is reduced for a limited period of time. It has also been shown that they have been effective and good from the point of view that a large part of the employment has been transferred into the same type of employment but without a reduced employer's contribution. So this is not a labour market policy measure. It is not from Arbetsförmedlingen but from the Swedish Tax Agency that a reduction is made. That's an essential difference. For example, there is pensionable and accumulating income. I will not go into it any further and make it a trade union debate. After all, we had the union representative, Patrik Björck, in the speaker's chair just before me. I think it is reasonable that it is not an obligation for all companies to have collective agreements in Sweden today. I don't think we should have that either. There may be many reasons. There may be positive effects for some companies in having it. Others think they can do without them. Some people want more visits from union ombudsmen. Maybe others don't want it. That's none of my business. The important thing is that we ensure that we get jobs, that we have measures, efforts and other parts that lead to jobs without community support and that are what we normally call real jobs.
i-b15adbd24998b523-340	Mr President, I would like to Katarina Brännström says that collective agreements are to socialise Swedish business. Christian Holm Barenfeld says that collective agreements lead to union ombudsmen running around at workplaces. It would be interesting to conduct this discussion with the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, which has the task of getting as many employers as possible to sign collective agreements. It can be seen that it is also a strength for the employer to enter into a contract, to have the opportunities, rights and security that it entails to enter into a contract. I think that everyone listening to this debate is drawing a sigh of relief from the fact that it is not Katarina Brännström who controls the Swedish labour market.
i-b15adbd24998b523-343	Mr President, I would like to Anette Åkesson has asked me how I and the government are working to ensure that Sweden's protection against future crises is stronger than that the government needs to take loans from abroad. When this government took office, there were significant deficits in public finances. In 2014, the general government sector showed a deficit of SEK 65 billion, which was the largest deficit since the 1990s crisis. The unfunded tax reductions carried out by the previous government were a major factor in this relationship. Since the government took office, fiscal policy has changed in a more responsible direction. The government has financed new reforms in full. This has contributed to the almost halving of the deficit and to the strengthening of structural savings. At the same time, reality is rapidly changing before our eyes. That so many people take refuge in Sweden from war and oppression changed the conditions radically after the budget bill was presented. In view of this, the government has proposed in an amending budget, which includes the Moderates, that the expenditure in the 2015 budget be increased by SEK 11 billion. This is a common system for dealing with major unforeseen costs during the current financial year. Work is currently underway to find ways to mitigate the cost increases we are now seeing and to find savings opportunities for future budgets. It is important that there are margins to meet a sharp deterioration in economic development. The government also intends to conduct a fiscal policy for the remainder of its term of office, which will help to strengthen the trend of savings. Even in this acute situation of many asylum seekers, the government takes responsibility for public finances. The government will continue to pursue a tight fiscal policy.
i-b15adbd24998b523-348	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. It's a very strange picture Magdalena Andersson paints. Before the election everything in Sweden was dark, and if the Social Democrats came to power everything would be fine. Since the government did not get its budget through for 2015, it has consistently blamed what has gone badly on that it is not responsible for it. Then it's the Alliance's budget. At the same time, you take credit for what's going well. It just doesn't make sense. The fact that the deficit was halved in 2015 is thus due to the Alliance. In fact, the Alliance left behind the EU's strongest finances, low public debt and increasing employment – despite the financial crisis and subsequent recession – thanks to its wholehearted focus on jobs and responsibility in public finances. Furthermore, the Minister of Finance forgets to inform about what the deficit was for. It stimulated the economy, which was necessary for our small and export-dependent country when exports have not gone very strongly. It is private households that keep consumption going, and thus demand and the economy. Furthermore, the Finance Minister forgets to reveal that the deficits would have been even higher if the shadow budgets of the Social Democrats had gone through. Already in opposition, the Social Democrats wanted to borrow more. Social democrats seem to have at all a strategy of talking about how badly others have behaved, even if they have actually contributed, or tried to contribute in documents, to the fact that it would have been even worse. I do not understand that strategy. But it was applied in the 1990s, and it is consistently applied by Magdalena Andersson, both before the elections and since then. It is clear, however, that if you do not have any proposals of your own, good ones to come with, you can, of course, be concerned with criticising others. I fully agree with the need for margins in order to be able to respond to future recessions and crises. That's exactly what shelters are all about. It is in good times that resources are created that can be put away to worse times, just as in the private economy. But what about the proposals? S and MP argue that they invest in jobs but at the same time put forward proposals that are condemned by the collective expertise and that destroy reforms or measures that have positive effects. For example, the removal of the lower parentheses in health insurance, increased social security contributions for the elderly and reduced ROT deductions. The government makes it more expensive to hire and less profitable to work, so that both the jobs and the number of hours worked are reduced. This in itself will have an impact on tax revenue. The question is, in concrete terms, what the Minister for Finance means when she says that fiscal policy has been changed in a more responsible direction. In fact, the S-MP budget contributes to an explosion of expenditure. In the budget submitted by the S-MP, not only will the number of jobs be reduced, but eight out of ten Swedes will suffer less economically. It's just the short-term effects. The long-term consequences will be even more dramatic. I therefore wonder: what is the long-term responsibility of the S-MP budget? And how does the S-MP build shelters?
i-b15adbd24998b523-356	Mr President, I would like to It is not correct that eight out of ten Swedes get a deterioration in their finances with the government's budget. Anette Åkesson will read the diagrams again. It is not true that we blame others and say that everyone else has done wrong. On the contrary, I have often praised Anders Borg for keeping his money in order even during the financial crisis. My criticism is directed at the end of the last parliamentary term when the tax on borrowed money continued to be reduced, despite the improvement in the economy. For the former bourgeois government had greater deficits when the economic cycle improved than it had during the crisis itself. It is rare for economists to think that this is the way a policy should be conducted. Anette Åkesson thinks it's good that the away parentheses in health insurance exist, so that long-term ill people are insured out of health insurance. We have different ideological starting points in this regard. I think it's important that you feel safe even when you get a serious diagnosis of the disease. The government is now pursuing a responsible economic policy. We are pursuing a policy that has halved public deficits. And every year we will have a smaller deficit than what the moderate-led government left behind.
i-b15adbd24998b523-360	Mr President, I would like to Of course, both the Moderates and the Alliance want to maintain security. In the past, however, people were retired early and thus removed from the statistics. History, then, terrifies because the economy is running smoothly and the economy must be managed. At the end of the last parliamentary term, the Social Democrats invited to a seminar on how the public would work more effectively and how productivity would increase. It attracted me. I was curious about the reasoning on how the activities in municipalities and county councils can be made more efficient, not least because these activities represent a large part of public expenditure. They are also the activities closest to the citizens, i.e. mainly school, care and health care. It is also municipalities and county councils that will, from the mid-2020s, face major challenges in view of population development. They really need to review both efficiency and productivity. Unfortunately, I was disappointed. The seminar was only about how government agencies and works can work more efficiently. Of course it is important, but it concerns only a small part of public spending, and nothing new came out. Sweden is now facing concrete challenges. In the short term, the challenge is how refugees from Syria and other war-torn areas will get shelter over their heads, somewhere to live, language education and school, preferably internships or jobs. But even the ostentatious sickness rates are a challenge. In the longer term, we all need good strength to cope well with demographic developments. There, immigration is an asset provided that we succeed better than historically with integration into society as a whole, but perhaps mainly into the labour market. The challenges that we face after the middle of the 2020s are the challenges that we should spend more time preparing for, on the one hand by reviewing that public activities at all levels so that they work effectively, and, on the other hand, by ensuring that we have control over our economy. For an outsider it can be confusing: the Finance Minister talks about how bad everything was during the Alliance except at the end of the Alliance's time, because then it was really bad, according to the Finance Minister. Households themselves as well as Swedish and foreign experts were impressed by how much better households had received it and how well Sweden had managed the financial crisis without it being noticed. When the S-MP then presents a budget that you will get through, you talk about how good it is, but it turns out that it is a budget where eight out of ten households get worse. It is Parliament's investigation service that has produced that figure. The budgetary policy framework with surplus targets and expenditure ceilings – that is, the very basis of what provides economic stability and is the prerequisite for ensuring that Sweden has shelters – was important for S before the elections, but in practice the surplus target has now been abolished. The big problem with and for the current government is that words and actions are not connected. And what's about one day doesn't apply to the next. If the state's economy isn't managed, it's gonna increase the balance. With higher public debt the responsibility is passed on to future generations, and future generations are already those who, thanks to the population development with large retirements and increased life expectancy, will have a greater dependency burden. Which of the government's reforms tackle concrete problems, such as the apparent absence of sickness? What reforms are aimed at avoiding that Sweden increases public debt and overwhelms responsibility for the next generation?
i-b15adbd24998b523-369	Mr President, I would like to After all, the government shows in practical politics how we take responsibility for public finances, because in the budget that we have put on Parliament's table we reduce deficits as well as public debt each year. Then, of course, we will come up with new forecasts because more people come to Sweden to apply for asylum. There too, of course, we will take responsibility for public finances. That the deficits would slip to the levels that prevailed when Anette Åkesson's party was in power I do not consider likely. Anette Åkesson is talking about the surplus target. It would be interesting to hear whether the Moderates really stand by it, given that we have a completely different situation. With the large population growth that we now have, it would be deeply inappropriate to try to quickly get back to a level of 1% surplus in public finances. Perhaps the Moderates will reconsider here. Anette Åkesson says she wants to stay safe. At the same time, she wants us to have a farthest parentheses in health insurance. Clearly, it reduces the safety of people who are diagnosed with a serious disease. My picture is that many of those who are diagnosed with a serious disease – after the first shock has subsided – do not feel safe at all. They're very worried if they're going to get their health insurance. Therefore, I think it is a clear improvement to remove the distant parentheses. We also see that the rate of illness has increased in recent years despite the fact that we have had a distant parenthesis. Anette Åkesson says that people are being removed from the statistics. But many of those who are insured are people who disappear from the statistics.
i-b15adbd24998b523-374	Mr President, I would like to There is a parliamentary committee which, following an announcement by the Riksdag, will review these issues. It will be exciting to see what it comes up with. I think most people have pretty good control of their own finances. It is plus and minus that have to go together, and many certainly have at least the ambition to save. There will always be tough times. In the private economy, it can be sickness, unemployment or dental bills at the same time as the car breaks down. The state is more stable and also has the right to tax. But we politicians now, especially in government positions, have the responsibility not only to look short-term but also to plan long-term, even if a lot is happening. To, as the government does, impair households and businesses at a time when expenditure is apparent due to challenges of migration and sick leave is irresponsible. The S-MP risks having to increase its loans and thus burden future generations more than necessary. These deteriorations will be felt already in the short term, but in the long term they will have serious consequences. It's not building shelters for future recessions. The S-MP government plays a high game and risks with open eyes that the coming recession will hit the weakest in society harder. There has been a political consensus in the past on the importance of economic stability. I hope we get back to that – not only in words, but also in deeds. I would like to thank the Minister for Finance for the debate.
i-b15adbd24998b523-379	Mr President, I would like to I share Anette Åkesson's view that it is good to stand for a responsible economic policy, not only in words but also in action. There it was very sad that the previous bourgeois government said that it was sticking to the surplus target, even though it apparently broke it, not only in agreement with all its expert authorities but also in accordance with its own budget proposal. It was not a responsible way of pursuing economic policy – not least because large unfunded tax cuts were carried out while the economic cycle turned around. It is therefore very good that we have now changed the economic policy in Sweden so that we can pursue a policy in which we reduce deficits. That's exactly what this government is doing. We have been responsible for public finances since we took office and will, of course, continue to do so in the future. I would also like to thank Anette Åkesson for the interpellation.
i-b15adbd24998b523-382	Mr President, I would like to In response to the proposals made by the Government regarding changes to RUT deductions in the budget bill, Erik Andersson has asked me how the Government's preparation of the matter has been done and what impact on the total RUT deductions that I believe the changes will have. The preparation of the proposals has been done in the usual way by preparing the proposals within the Government Office, referring them and reviewing them. As shown in the budget proposal, the changes in the RUT deduction are expected to increase tax revenue by SEK 90 million in 2016. The changes will not make any difference for the vast majority of those who are currently making RUT deductions.
i-b15adbd24998b523-384	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister of Finance. I think the answer to my interpellation is on the shortest team. I asked about the impact of the halving of the RUT deduction. Then I get the answer that it affects the state so that you get SEK 90 million in increased tax revenue – not a word in the answer about the companies affected, those who work in these companies or the families with children who choose to use RUT. For SEK 90 million, the Minister of Finance and the Government have created a great deal of uncertainty in an industry that was growing, and this is because the deduction should not be made for indoor pools. Then one might think: Did the Minister of Finance think that she would get support from the Swedish people by pointing out that part of the deduction would be used for luxury consumption? I think the Minister of Finance is very attached to the cleaning of indoor pools. According to an article in a newspaper from October 2014, the government wants to halve the deduction. Furthermore, it can be read that those affected by the halving and austerity are those who buy in cooking services or order cleaning of indoor pools and that they will now bear the full cost. I share the view that the cleaning of indoor pools is not a core area. But I haven't seen or heard that the RUT deduction has been used for cleaning indoor pools. I've been out to several RUT companies asking about this, because I thought it was strange that RUT was used for cleaning indoor pools. There are not so many indoor pools in Sweden, as far as I know. But I didn't get any information about it. Then I asked RUT, the Parliamentary Investigation Service, to investigate whether this deduction has been used for cleaning indoor pools. But no such information has been received, and no such information can be obtained. How did the Minister of Finance intend to raise $90 million in tax revenue? For purely ideological reasons, she points out that the RUT deduction would be used for luxury consumption. The Minister of Finance's idea of indoor pool cleaning is very strange and it has created uncertainty in this industry. We have tried on several occasions to get answers from the Minister of Finance about where she got this deduction for the cleaning of indoor pools. However, we have not received an answer, but I hope I can have it today. It has been a profitable reform. The popularity of hiring a RUT company has increased. Seven out of ten Swedes want to make the deduction as it is, and 83 per cent of all Swedes are in favour of domestic services. Nevertheless, the government plans to halve the deduction at the turn of the year to raise SEK 90 million in increased tax revenues. What has RUT created for Sweden? It's created 20,000 jobs. Three out of four come directly from unemployment. The Institute of Economics believes that RUT provides lower unemployment. Mr President, I would like to I hope I can find an answer to the question.
i-b15adbd24998b523-396	Mr President, I would like to Erik Andersson says I'm fixated on indoor pools. I don't think I'm obsessed with indoor pools, given that moderate MPs haven't put one, not two, but three interpellations about indoor pools. Let me point out, as so many times before, that the change we are making affects 1% of RUT buyers. They have an average income of SEK 960 000 per year and can reasonably continue to purchase their RUT services. It should therefore not affect the employees or undertakings in this sector to any significant extent.
i-b15adbd24998b523-398	Mr President, I would like to I would argue that it is the Minister for Finance who has raised the indoor pools in the debate. In the newspaper from October 2014, the Minister of Finance points to indoor swimming pool cleaning. I don't think anyone in our country thought the RUT deduction could be used to clean the indoor pool. There are probably very few indoor pools in Sweden. No one knows how many there are, and to find out, you have to call each municipality. But there aren't many. Regardless of what the Minister for Finance says, the halving will have a severe impact on the sector. The Confederation of Swedish Enterprise makes the assessment that the sector can grow with as much as 36,000 people if the RUT deduction is retained and expanded with more services. RUTs are important for integration. Every other employee in a RUT company was born abroad. The Finance Minister's own electorate also believes that the deduction should remain at the level that it is today. Only 20% are in favour of the reduction. A study from Stockholm University shows that married women's income is increasing thanks to RUT. Unfortunately, most of the unpaid domestic work is still done by women.
i-b15adbd24998b523-403	However, due to the government's announced deterioration of the RUT deduction, the entire sector has slowed down. The government's policy has reduced the growth of RUT companies from 10% to 1%. Every third company fears that it will have to lay off employees and offer more hours' employment. It is also believed that this leads to more undeclared work. At the Gasell Gala, the Minister of Finance paid tribute to the RUT deduction, describing that the RUT sector is interesting and that it is cost-effective to subsidise the emerging industry. Nevertheless, the Minister for Finance intends to make the whole sector worse. Firstly, how is it that the Minister for Finance is so obsessed with pool cleaning? Secondly, how is it that the Minister of Finance wants to make things worse for a growth sector?
i-b15adbd24998b523-407	Mr President, I would like to As I said, this affects 1 percent of RUT buyers. An average RUT buyer buys for less than SEK 5,000 a year, so most can five times their RUT purchase before hitting the ceiling. It is true that the RUT deduction is more cost-effective than the other very expensive and inefficient tax cuts made by the previous moderate-led government, such as the reduction in the social security contributions for young people, which we are now phasing out.
i-b15adbd24998b523-409	Mr President, I would like to Although the Minister of Finance claims that it affects very few, it has a very negative impact on an industry. As I said earlier, it has created great uncertainty in the industry. Companies choose not to hire and let more go in hours. That's not good. They also believe that it leads to more undeclared work. Mr President, I would like to In fact, this is all about ideology. I cannot imagine that the Minister for Finance felt that she needed precisely this 90 million for the state. How much does the deterioration and uncertainty felt by companies cost? How much does that cost the state? The Minister of Finance tried to fool the Swedish people by claiming that the RUT deduction is used for pool cleaning although it does not. So she could justify an ideological cut that affects an industry and all families who need help.
i-b15adbd24998b523-412	Mr President, I would like to No, it does not affect all families who need help. It affects 1% of families using RUT deductions. Not everyone else is affected– if you don't use it for pool cleaning at the time. But it does not seem that many do, although it is quite possible with the system of rules that Erik Andersson defends. As I said, this affects 1%, and they have an average income of 960,000. These are the families Erik Andersson is fighting for. It's not all families, I'd like to point out. Erik Andersson is concerned that this creates uncertainty in the industry. If Erik Andersson was serious and serious about it, Erik Andersson should not spend his time standing in the Chamber. Instead, he should be out at the companies and tell them that this is a very small change. I have offered some bourgeois members of parliament who are interested in the question of taking an initiative with me to inform companies that there is a very small change that is taking place and that they can safely continue to expand and have people permanently employed. I also invite Erik Andersson to join us, of course. You are cordially welcome.
i-b15adbd24998b523-417	Mr President, I would like to Daniel Riazat has asked me what measures I intend to take to improve the situation with regard to study guidance in mother tongue. According to the school regulation and the high school regulation, a student should receive study guidance in his/her mother tongue if the student needs it. However, many principals and schools find it difficult to meet this requirement, not least in view of the recent sharp increase in the number of newly arrived pupils. The government has taken a number of measures to strengthen education for newly arrived students. These include, among other things, that in June 2015, the Government commissioned the National Board of Education to carry out systematic efforts to strengthen the ability of the principals to receive newly arrived children and young people in the short and long term and to provide a high and equivalent level of education. The mission aims to improve education for newly arrived pupils in comprehensive school and corresponding school forms and in the introduction programme of upper secondary school. Actions will be carried out, inter alia, so that more teachers will be able to teach all children and pupils, regardless of their linguistic background. Special efforts should be directed to native speakers and study supervisors in mother tongue. Efforts should also be directed to principals and principals to support an effective way of working and organisation that promotes good education for newly arrived students. The budget proposal for 2016 proposes that the investment in collaboration for the best school, where the efforts for newly arrived students make up a part, should amount to a total of SEK 600 million and is estimated at the corresponding amount annually from 2017. From 1 July this year, school leaders have had better opportunities to organise, among other things, mother tongue teaching and study guidance in mother tongue through new rules on remote teaching. If there is no licensed and qualified teacher available in a school unit, remote teaching can already be carried out by a teacher present at another unit of the principal's organisation. In order to further improve the ability of the principals to offer pupils the education they need, the Government decided on 12 November 2015 on a directive for an investigation that will propose, among other things, how school principals through remote teaching can be given increased opportunities to offer native language teaching and study guidance to pupils in their native language. The assignment shall be presented in this part by 12 February 2016. On 26 November, the Government also decided to set up an investigation to propose measures to ensure municipalities' ability to satisfy Sweden's newly arrived students' right to education. The proposals will help to maintain the quality of teaching for all pupils in the school system. The investigator will, among other things, suggest how individual schools with queues should be able to receive new arrivals to a greater extent than at present and investigate how municipalities should be able to place pupils in schools other than the neighbouring ones in order to promote a more even distribution of new arrivals and improve the conditions for integration. The investigator will also examine whether there is a need for further efforts to enable retired teachers and teacher students, for example, to support newly arrived students. Dedicated goat shall be reported by 18 January 2016 at the latest. As the 2016 budget bill shows, the government also sees opportunities to improve the reception of newly arrived students by taking advantage of the fact that many new arrivals and other people with foreign background have a professional background as teachers. For those who want it should be possible to start teaching the subjects for which they are trained as soon as possible. Before they can teach the subjects they are trained for, a possibility for many of the newly arrived teachers may be to start working as study tutors or native speakers. The government intends to come back shortly on this issue.
i-b15adbd24998b523-429	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for Education for his reply. The proportion of multilingual pupils in Swedish schools is increasing. More than one in five pupils in comprehensive school have basic knowledge of a language other than Swedish, and in October 2014 there were just over 92,000 pupils born abroad. This means that today there are students in the Swedish school who together represent more than a hundred different native languages. For them, it is natural to use more than one language in your everyday life. It also means that many teachers face a linguistic diversity in their teaching. According to the comprehensive school curriculum, teaching should promote learning and knowledge development by building on pupils' backgrounds, past experiences, languages and knowledge. At the same time, the Swedish National Agency for Education's statistics show that multilingual pupils, especially newly arrived students, do not meet school requirements to the same extent as other pupils. Study guidance in the native language is a support measure available in comprehensive school and corresponding school forms as well as in upper secondary school and upper secondary school. The school inspectorate's review of education for newly arrived pupils shows that many of the schools that have been quality audited show serious shortcomings in the way they handle this guide. The competence in study guidance in the native language varies, as does how to work practically with study guidance. When the tutorial offered is of good quality, it is an important support effort for the student who needs it. However, being a study supervisor is not the same as being a mother tongue teacher. This is why the concept of study supervisor is used for those who give instruction in their mother tongue on topics other than the subject of mother tongue. A native language teacher teaches on the basis of the course or subject plan for native language, while a study supervisor starts from the course and subject plans on various subjects. Some students have received their previous teaching in a language other than their mother tongue, and in these cases it may be beneficial for the study supervisor to supervise that language. Few study supervisors have such knowledge of the subject that they can supervise in all subjects of the school. Organising the work in subject blocks, i.e. that the study supervisor provides guidance on several related topics, facilitates both the recruitment of and the development of competence for study supervisors. It also provides a reasonable working situation for the supervisor in question. Study guidance is not only subject teaching in the native language but includes more aspects, such as linguistic awareness of differences and similarities between Swedish and mother tongues as well as cultural factors in subject teaching. A study supervisor also needs to be able to determine to what extent the mother tongue should be used in the supervision and how the subject language should be processed. The fact that a student has not yet completely mastered the Swedish language must not cause him to lag behind in school. Therefore, the right to study guidance is extremely important. If a student has difficulty learning because the student has a mother tongue other than Swedish, the student has the right to study guidance. There is, however, a huge gap that has been pointed out by the Swedish School Inspectorate, among others. It has also been noted that many principals have a narrow picture of what study guidance means. Study guidance is handled to a large extent by native speakers. In my opinion, there is an untapped resource in Sweden in the form of people who speak the same language as the newly arrived students. I am not just talking about the students who have just arrived and who have teachers, but about those who have lived in Sweden since before.
i-b15adbd24998b523-443	Mr President, I would like to Let me first say that I fully agree with Daniel Riazats's description of what the Swedish school is today and what it is facing. It is, of course, a great strength for our country that we have so many multilingual young people. This has strengthened us in the past and enabled Sweden to grow with people who have come here from other countries. It is a strength in economic, social and human terms, but it is also a strength that we are quite poor at taking advantage of today, both because of discriminatory structures and what our labour market looks like, and because of how school does its job and what conditions it has to do so. This is very clear in the most important measurement we have in Swedish school, namely the qualification statistics for grade 9. In recent years we can see that we are getting better at meeting students who come to Swedish school from other countries before grade 6. That's where the rating goes up. We learn as more teachers work on it and you find new techniques. But we get worse at providing the right conditions for students who arrive during the last four years in comprehensive school. There, the ratings go down sharply. In fact, that is what is cutting down the entire competence statistics for Sweden. It depends on a couple of different things. I think one of the main reasons is that many do not get enough years in school. You may require an individual who comes here: You will get a year and a half in school because you come directly from a refugee camp where you have received very little education or come from a situation where you may not have received any school at all. To pass what Swedish-born students will pass in ten years is often an unreasonable requirement. In other cases it is a question of having too low expectations. A student who really has the whole educational background with him and should have all the conditions to pass the school is consistently met by an expectation that the student will not pass it, and that expectation becomes self-fulfilling. In a third case, it is a question of the student not getting the tools that are actually needed to complete the training, and then the study guide is one of the most important tools. That we have students who have very good math skills but still do not meet the math requirements because they do not have the Swedish maths terms may simply not occur. But it occurs time and again in the Swedish school because the requirement for study guidance is not met. What, then, can we do to deal with it? The first is of course that all principals and all principals need to understand what study guidance really is. There are many who have done a lot, but since the responsibility for receiving newly arrived students has been so misallocated in the past, the experience and competence that principals and principals have now need to be disseminated to others. It's been taken on by the National Board of Education. The second is to find these study counselors. Then I think, like Daniel Riazat, that we have a huge resource in people who have come here recently or people who have come here before and who themselves are multilingual. Being able to use them in school as a study supervisor is a clear improvement for the students we are going to meet and also a clear tool for the teachers who work in school to be able to do their job. There we will soon come back to what the fast track that has been announced should look like and how the skills of the groups that did not enter the fast track, i.e. those who do not have a teacher's background when they arrive, should be taken into account. The third part is that they should get the right skills and guidance in their new assignment as study supervisor. There, the Swedish National Agency for Education is tasked with organising further training for study supervisors and working with study supervisors in their competence development in different ways. It's an important part. It is about continuing training for principals and principals, ensuring that more study supervisors are available and providing study supervisors with further training in order to complete their new assignment.
i-b15adbd24998b523-456	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Gustav Fridolin, for your answer! Nevertheless, it is gratifying to see that the current government has a series of efforts and a plan to overcome this. It is a very broad discussion that could actually last for hours and is about us living in a country with the world's most educated taxi drivers and pizza bakers. But if we are to concretise ourselves in some way and focus on what is about study guidance: I think it is good about the fast track that the government has initiated and that several other parties, including the Left Party, have been in for a long time, to ensure that the newly arrived teachers who come here will get a kind of fast track to get in. At the same time, I also think that in the future we will need those teachers in regular teaching as subject teachers on various subjects. At the same time, we – the confirmed Minister of Education's image – have many people who have lived here for a number of years and who master both the Swedish language and another language or several other languages and who could make great use of the Swedish school. From my own municipality there is an example of this. It was said consistently: we cannot find study counselors. In a municipality of around 60,000 people, there were no more tutors. At the same time, I had a father at home who has been a civil engineer from Iran and who has attended educational programmes but who did not get a job for the first eight years in Sweden in his profession or for that matter as a fitter in the same industry. When he was given the opportunity to get into school and be a tutor for the Persian - speaking or Dari - speaking children, it gave him an incredible amount, and today you see the result. He's far from alone. There are many such good examples. The problem, as I see it, is that this is not systematic but that we are still waiting for more good examples. In this part – despite all the good efforts with fast track and all this that the government has initiated – I believe that the government through the Swedish National Agency for Education should ensure that there are tips and recommendations on how to get more study supervisors, apart from the new arrivals that come and that you should send in in a fast track. The Minister of Education said he agreed with the picture I painted. It is because I have taken all the text from the publication with recommendations that has been sent out from the National Board of Education regarding study guidance. What is missing there, however, is tips and advice on how to make sure to get more tutors. There are plenty of people who today could work as study counselors. What is also problematic about linking native speakers too much with study supervisors in the native language is that in many cases native speakers do not have the subject-specific knowledge to teach. Today we are also in a situation where we need more native speakers who are also trained in different languages, who have proper teacher training from their home country. There's a golden chance, and I think it's good that the government brings it up. Another thing is this with expectations, support and tools. It's nice that the Minister for Education says this. But somewhere it must be made clear to the municipalities, so that students do not – as the Minister of Education himself mentioned – stay in their knowledge development because the principals believe that just because the student does not handle the Swedish language, the student cannot study mathematics or any other subject.
i-b15adbd24998b523-464	Mr President, I would like to I very much agree with that. That is why, from 1 January, we have new legislation and a survey. It is a task that is becoming more difficult in itself, but which in many ways also becomes more important because now more people than before will have a chance to get the knowledge that they need to build a life in Sweden. Then one must be able to map the knowledge that a student comes with and not respond to a 14-year-old who has never attended school in the same way as one treats a 14-year-old who comes directly from a school that may have more advanced knowledge in certain subjects corresponding to the eight's subject plans than we have in the Swedish school. They must, of course, have completely different treatment and conditions for starting school. But that has not really been the case, and that is precisely why the survey is so important. I fully agree that we have been very focused on the fast track, which we hope will be in place soon. It is about taking advantage of the teacher experience of those who have been teachers, who have teacher training or experience as teachers from their old home countries and are on the start-up mission. It's very important to succeed in that. Just as Daniel Riazat says, there are quite large groups of people who could help in the Swedish school but who do not meet. This applies, among other things, to those who are asylum seekers, who are not yet in the job of establishment. When you open an asylum accommodation and the children are going to school, it is a huge waste that the teacher remains at the asylum accommodation during the day. Using that competence in school, as we see happening with good examples around, will become a system. But it's also about people who don't have teacher experience but who have a subject competence that is good to be able to use in study guidance and also people who have been in Sweden for a long time, who are Swedish citizens and have other jobs but who just like many others right now feel: Can I make a contribution? Can I do anything to ensure that Sweden is able to cope with the great humanitarian effort that we are actually doing? It is clear that those experiences should be taken into account, so we will get back to how we will spread it. Some things are happening today. The Swedish National Board of Education's hotline is responsible for gathering good examples and spreading them to principals who ask. SKL is also good at spreading good examples. So a lot is happening today. But if we are to build systems out of it, I also believe that we need to go through the regulations, for example. We have some regulations that risk making this more difficult than it would otherwise be.
i-b15adbd24998b523-468	Mr President, I would like to Thank you again to the Minister for Education for your answer. It is gratifying to see that the Minister for Education shares our views and views on this. In recent months and especially in recent weeks, a kind of disaster picture of what is happening in Sweden is being painted. A crisis that people fleeing from war find themselves in is in some way transformed into a crisis for those of us who have a roof over their heads and in many cases have a job to go to, or at least live in, a country that in most cases secures our daily lives. That's why I think it's extra important to show: Sure there will be many students at the same time. This means, of course, that we must have a completely different organisation of this. At the same time, however, there are many solutions. Making sure that this is put in a system will mean that in a few years' time we will again find ourselves in a situation where we cannot even paint a kind of disaster picture. Then, of course, it is also connected with the fact that all municipalities should assume their responsibilities for this. As I understand it, Minister of Education Gustav Fridolin believes that the idea of also mapping the very people who are already here and who have competence in different languages is positive. I think that is very positive. I am thinking that, of course, the fast track for newcomers will produce results, and that is something that I support, perhaps a little more in the long term. But what one might want to focus on first and foremost now and which should be speeded up is this particular effort on those individuals who may be unemployed today but who could be study counselors in their mother tongue.
i-b15adbd24998b523-474	Mr President, I would like to This is one of the areas where we are now trying to pool all the resources we have to see what resources are untapped. For many people who are now doing all they can to help in the situation of fugitives, it is very provocative to have just these images of crisis. It is clear that it is a huge challenge when Sweden has for some time received a number of children every day that corresponds to a couple of normal-sized schools. It is a huge challenge, and I think everyone agrees on that. But it will be very provocative when we talk about it as the great crisis for us when, at the same time, we have so many resources that are untapped. The human resources that Daniel Riazat is talking about are definitely such resources, and it is true that they could be used much better than has happened.
