i-dddc22fb2234f6e6-1	Mr President, I would like to Mr Bali has asked me why I and the government are investing in expanding benefit systems rather than creating new ways of finding more jobs. Furthermore, Fredrik Schulte has asked me what I intend to do to increase the momentum for work. I reply to the interpellations in a context. The Government's objective is that the number of people working and the number of hours worked in the economy should increase so that Sweden reaches the lowest unemployment rate in the EU by 2020. In the 2016 budget bill, the government has therefore proposed major future investments in housing, climate change and infrastructure and an active business policy for more and growing companies. Despite the high unemployment rate, the number of job vacancies is higher than ever. Many job seekers simply lack the skills or experience required by employers to employ. Those who do not have completed upper secondary education find it particularly difficult to gain a foothold in the labour market. The vast majority of people have strong driving forces to work and provide for themselves. However, for those who find it difficult to compete in today's labour market to be able to take responsibility and increase their chances at work, society needs to respond with concrete opportunities for education, training or other actions that lead to jobs. An important part of the government's job agenda is therefore investment in skills and matching to equip people to take the jobs that are emerging. The drive for a new knowledge boost represents a significant increase in the ambition of adult learning, in terms of both more places and higher quality education for adults. Young people are given greater opportunities to combine education and training with work, traineeships or other labour market policies and more training opportunities are created for the long-term unemployed. Labour market policy is being redesigned to make support for the job seeker more personalised. The spring bill for 2015 and the budget bill contain total investments for jobs amounting to just over SEK 14 billion for 2016. It is investment that is necessary to meet the challenges facing Sweden and a prerequisite for reducing unemployment on a lasting basis.
i-Dfgz1iSemDzeEXDRdoh7mU	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Ylva Johansson, for the answer! It is hardly a secret that the government chooses to tax work and entrepreneurship and turn money into various benefit systems. What Ylva Johansson himself points out is quite important, that they invest SEK 14 billion in what they think creates work, namely training places. At the same time, the tax they spend on entrepreneurship and work is SEK 30 billion. Somewhere Ylva Johansson believes that her actions are twice as effective in her as in the companies. They are twice as effective, and investing in Ylva Johansson's measures is twice as profitable as if the companies had to use the money to hire people. That is basically the analysis the government has made. At the same time, it is very difficult to follow the government's analyses, because in their budget they have removed every estimate of what the various changes have for employment. If it were the case that these training efforts would lead to so many jobs, it would have been appropriate for the budget to have shown what the employment effects are. But the government has chosen to remove and darken. There is a concern both with what we see with health insurance systems, where health insurance costs increase, and with benefit systems and higher unemployment funds. According to the Institute of Economic Development and other expert assessors, both have a lasting effect on reducing labour supply and labour force participation. This is where it gets so exciting. It is with a decrease in labour force participation that unemployment can be reduced without more jobs being created. More people aren't even looking for a job. They simply do not count as unemployed. This is the first time in ten years that SCB now has both forecasts and concerns about the decline in labour force participation. It would then be appropriate if the government had other measures and said: Okay, we want to raise the unemployment fund and do all these measures, but we have other measures to increase labour force participation. But the government doesn't. In the government budget, there are no proposals to increase labour force participation. On the contrary, there are proposals that reduce labour force participation, which increase job thresholds and tax jobs. This will lead to higher unemployment and ultimately reduced tax revenues to finance our well-being. What other proposals does Ylva Johansson have to increase labour force participation, if it is the case that this money is more useful at Ylva Johansson's department than at the companies?
i-dddc22fb2234f6e6-15	Mr President, I would like to I have written an interpellation to the Minister for Labour in the light of the great concern I feel that we are about to build up the same situation for the future as we had at the beginning of the 21st century, namely that it is not worthwhile to work. One of the biggest expenditures that was included in the government's spring bill, and that we decided on a few months ago here in Parliament, is about significantly raising the unemployment fund. For those who have had the highest income, this means raising the ceiling in the unemployment fund from 15 000 to 20 000 in pure crowns. This means that those who have previously had a good income and who become unemployed now receive a salary raise of SEK 5 000 per month. Mr President, I would like to This brings many professionals close to the limit of whether it really pays to work. The people who work are supposed to pay to get to work. Generally speaking, they have higher meal costs. They may have to buy work clothes, and they have other kinds of expenses linked to their work. Somewhere they come to a point where it is doubtful whether it is economically worthwhile to work. In Sweden there is strong research support for this. IFAU has concluded that there is a clear link between the level of unemployment benefit and what the national economy calls a reservation wage, i.e. the minimum remuneration it is prepared to accept for a job in relation to how much it can receive in the form of benefits for not working. International research also clearly points to this. If there are not strong drivers for work, people will be phased out of the labour market. This problem had Sweden 15 years ago, but over the past few years we have gradually overcome it by making it more profitable to work, by tightening up unemployment funds and health insurance and by reducing taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship. This has led to a sharp decrease in exclusion in Sweden. However, we still have problems with those furthest from the labour market, the new exclusion: mainly young people and people from foreign backgrounds. With the policy put forward by the government, there is a great danger that Sweden will go back to the situation we were in ten years ago with a broader exclusion where more and more people are stuck in dependency. I have asked the Minister for Labour a question: what is the government doing to increase the driving forces for work and to make it pay better to work? The answer is nothing. That is worrying, Mr President.
i-dddc22fb2234f6e6-23	Mr President, I would like to I felt obliged to register for the debate when I read the interpellations made by Mr Bali and Fredrik Schulte. The Swedish Parliament is an interesting platform where you can discuss political contradictions, show off your own policy and ask the government what it thinks. What is it, then, that Hanif Bali and Fredrik Schulte show up in their questions? It is clear to me that, at first, they are showing an almost shocking lack of interest in facts and statistics. That's the starting point. If it is something we know after a number of years of bourgeois politics, that is what the changes in what you call the expansion of benefit systems – what the rest of us call insurance – have meant and have had effects. It is a clear experiment that has been carried out with major changes and deteriorations in unemployment insurance and other insurance systems. Has the result, then, been that we have had higher employment, lower unemployment and less exclusion? The answer is no. Before I went to the debate I saw an interesting article in the magazine Arena of the former LO-e conomen Sandro Scocco. In it he draws some historical parallels. In 1932, the right wing's argument against the introduction of unemployment insurance was unreasonable and incalculable claims to the treasury and excessive wages. That is exactly the same argument that is taking place now. Another representative of the right from the same time stated that the present social security system constitutes a moral danger to the whole people by allowing parasitic elements to benefit from benefits provided by social security for simulants and job-seeking. The same reasoning comes back to what Mr Bali and Fredrik Schulte put forward. The facts are the opposite. It didn't go as the right wing feared. After eight years of your policy, the result is the opposite of what you thought. Since the early 1990s, the unemployment benefit rate has gone from 74 per cent of the salary to almost 30 per cent for those who lose their job today. The number of open unemployed who have unemployment insurance funds has fallen dramatically in the 2000s, from around 65 per cent to about 40 per cent. It should then be clear that we would have much lower unemployment and much higher employment. It's not like that. The trend has been the opposite. The trend in unemployment benefit rates has been clearly declining, and the trend in unemployment has been increasing. These are opposite results to what you claim. What remains of the argument, then, when there is nothing of facts and evidence? Well, references to a theoretical model world where it will be. I've studied economics, and I know how it sounds. But reality doesn't work that way. The question back to our moderate comrades is: Is it the reality that should apply to the unemployed and to the Swedish labour market, or is it your theories about how the economy and, above all, the unemployed people function that should govern economic policy?
i-dddc22fb2234f6e6-36	Mr President, I would like to It is obvious that reality is the worst enemy of Moderates. Since 2010, the costs of sick leave have been running out. They've increased by 70%. From 2010 and in the four years ahead that you were in charge of government, there was the distant parentheses. Didn't help it. It didn't help that people were insured out of insurance. As I said, the costs ran smoothly from 2010 and increased by 70 per cent. Obviously, reality does not follow Moderate theory. Mr Bali asks me whether I really believe that education leads to work. Yes, for quite good reason, I think so. We have a situation with a record number of vacancies and high vacancies. The answer I consistently get from employers is that they don't find people with the right skills. Education matters, and matching matters. In a different economic situation, we may have to think differently, but in the current economic situation, with many job vacancies and difficulties in obtaining the right skills, we can well assume that a shift of money from inefficient tax cuts to training efforts will have a good effect. Only reality can prove if I'm right. However, I have good reasons for this re-priority. The policy advocated by Hanif Bali and Fredrik Schulte, with major tax cuts and cuts, has been tried by Sweden. It was clearly unable to cope with unemployment. On the contrary, today we have a huge unemployment rate. I do not know how to deal with Fredrik Schultes's speech. We have tested your policy on unemployment insurance. I remember when your party friends in the old government said: If we destroy unemployment insurance, unemployment will fall. If we make it really expensive to be in insurance, especially for those in sectors where there is a high risk of unemployment, and if we reduce compensation, people will come to work instead of being unemployed. With some self-awareness, you have to admit that this policy made a magnificent magma—so magnificently that the government had to back off its policy and admit that it did not work and did not have the effects it thought. The risk-related insurance fee had to be abandoned. Now I understand that the Moderates themselves are proposing in their economic policy an increase in the ceiling of unemployment insurance in relation to the policies they advocated in government. It is well that others within the Moderates – with perhaps greater regard for reality – have understood that it was a policy that did not work, and I think most Moderates themselves realize that it was a magma.
i-dddc22fb2234f6e6-43	Mr President, I would like to It seems that both Ylva Johansson and Ali Esbati are so inclined to see us as the evil Moderates with monocle and high hats – from 1930, to which they had to dig back – that they are blinded by their prejudices about us and do not listen to what we say. I didn't ask if education leads to work. It is quite obvious that all Moderates put their young people in school and do not think that they should be pushed into the labour market directly at the age of nine. No, of course education leads to work. What I asked was whether it was reasonable to finance this with increased taxation on labour and businesses. Rather, that was the question. It's a little strange about Ali Ali's argumentation. We would be immune to facts, but the only reference he gives is Dagens Arena and a LO economist. It is therefore the objective reality that we do not take to heart. Ali Esbati sat next to me at a meeting just this morning where SCB went through that both labour force participation and employment have increased, so he knows. Of course, if you increase labour force participation, then unemployment increases. But that doesn't mean that fewer people are working, but it means that more people are out on the labour market looking for jobs and thus being counted as unemployed, instead of being counted in the column that you love to put people in, namely That is what government policy will lead to. Removing the distant parentheses and other things, such as more generous benefit systems, will mean that fewer are counted as unemployed and that more are pushed out to the column and not in work. Here we would somehow be immune to the facts. What facts are we immune to? Have people received lower compensation? Absolutely! That's not something we're going to screw up with. It was that benefit systems became less generous and that it became more profitable to go to work. That was the absolute point of our policy. But if you do as the government does – does it make it less profitable to work while taxing work harder, taxing companies harder – in what way does it lead to more people getting into work, in what way does it lead to an increase in the supply of work? No one questions the causality between education and work. The question is whether the government's models and methods for this are the most effective. But as I said, you are completely blinded by some kind of will to portray the Moderates as the evil capitalists who have hated ordinary people since 1930. You are so blinded by it that you are not even able to have a factual discussion with honest questions for ministers and those who support their budget.
i-dddc22fb2234f6e6-52	Mr President, I would like to We live in a new age. 75 years have probably passed since the article that Ali Esbati has referred to was written. A lot has happened. At least the Moderates can look back to a much more pleasant party history than Ali Esbati can do. Ali Esbati's party was then the Soviet lackeys, and it was not so long ago that Ali Esbati himself spoke and came out as a communist and former supporter of the Soviet Union. I think we can leave the story behind, and I particularly think that Ali Esbati should leave it behind. How does it really look? Nine years ago, Sweden had an employment rate of 65.8 per cent for people aged 20 to 64, and we had 78.8 per cent for the age group aged 15 to 74. In all groups, the employment rate has increased by 1 percentage point, despite the fact that we have had the biggest recession since the recession in the 20s and 30s, the biggest economic crisis. Thus, Sweden has increased its employment rate. We have got 360 000 more people at work. 250 000 of them were born abroad. Sweden currently has the highest employment rate in the EU. I understand that Ali Esbati and the Minister for Labour have ideological blindfolds and, at all costs, want to black out the former alliance government. I know that the Minister for Labour has previously said in the speaker's chair that the employment rate fell during the time of the alliance government in power. She has been confronted with it and more or less, at least indirectly, withdrew her claims. The fact that Ali Esbati is now going up and saying the same thing is perhaps not surprising. But those are facts. Sweden has thus been one of the countries with the strongest economic development in Europe and the West since 2006. But it must be remembered that we had an economic crisis that was the greatest for a whole generation. Sick leave has been reduced by 30 billion, the Minister for Labour, despite inflation and the fact that we have had strong population growth. We have received 150 000 fewer early retirements. Of course, we have seen an increase since 2010. But it was above all about people who were insured and then came back. Regarding the overall development of Sweden over the past nine years, it is only – if you look at the facts – to go to Ekonomifakta.se to quickly check how it really is. The Minister for Employment should, because I know she's stumbled a little on the numbers. Of course, unemployment has risen. But I would like to say, Mr President, that unemployment is becoming an obsolete measure. We are approaching a point where it is no longer interesting to look at unemployment. Why is that? It is because of what Mr Bali described, that the Social Democrats and the Left want unemployment so badly that they are prepared to sweep people under the carpet. They're pre-retired. They're on sick leave. It is now the policy that is being put forward, with the removal of the distant parentheses of health insurance. So unemployment is becoming an irrelevant measure. The interesting thing is how many people actually work. Then it matters with driving forces. If it pays to work, then more people will want to work. Now the government is moving in exactly the opposite direction.
i-dddc22fb2234f6e6-60	Mr President, I would like to People who don't really listen to what they comment on are a genre of their own, so to speak. I quote:"Unfortunately, the government seems to want to reduce incentives and driving forces to work by increasing a ‐ cash and removing the lower limit in health insurance. It is a quote not from 1932 but from Fredrik Schultes's interpellation to the government. My point was that it is the same kind of reasoning that still dominates within the right, even though we have had 75-80 years of reality in between to stick to. When I said it and Fredrik Schulte a volt into the Soviet Union – it has to stand for him. The facts I presented were, of course, not invented by anyone at Dagens Arena; they are in terms of unemployment from the AKU, that is, the Central Statistical Office, and in terms of participation in the unemployment benefit fund from the Employment Service and the Social Insurance Fund. It is open, accessible facts for anyone who would be interested in them. At that time, my point was that this very sharp reduction in the unemployment rate has not been accompanied by a fall in unemployment. On the contrary, the trend is exactly the opposite. The arguments therefore do not hold up. You have to find other reasons why it looks like it does. We agree that the employment rate is very important, and we agree that the employment rate in Sweden has been very high for a long time. Why is that? Yes, it is because, among other things, we have had a well-functioning labour market policy. Similar countries display the same thing. There has been good compensation for those who become ill and unemployed, and there has been a good functioning labour market policy aimed at something other than what Fredrik Schulte and Mr Bali are calling for, namely to punish the sick and the unemployed. It fights unemployment and sickness, not the unemployed and the sick. I see that you are angry that this is not the common thread in today's government policy. But I'm glad it's that way.
i-dddc22fb2234f6e6-65	Mr President, I would like to It is interesting to listen to this rhetoric in which you choose the years that you think fit to get exactly the development that you want to refer to. To take reality into account, you have to be a little more honest than that when it comes to the dates you take. With regard to the employment rate, which I believe is the most important measure of how well the labour market works, the old government simply took up the position of the employment rate when it took office in 2006. That's what happened. In virtually all eight years the employment rate was lower, except at the beginning. But when your policy started to bite, the employment rate fell. Then you fought your way up to the level where it was when you took office. It has not increased for eight years with a bourgeois labour market policy. Now we are in a position to increase labour force participation. It's a big challenge. Many people come to Sweden, and many of them get a residence permit to stay here. It is an extremely large, important and good challenge for Sweden to also increase the workforce and ensure that people are equipped to participate in the labour market and also be able to get jobs. It is a little interesting to listen to Fredrik Schulte when he says that the increase in the number of sick leave from 2010 is due to the fact that the sick came back to health insurance. Yeah, that's the point. They did not get well by being insured. That is also what is proved by this. So your politics didn't make people healthy. After the deadline had passed, they came back to the insurance. Then there are running costs and an increase of 70 per cent since 2010. This is a serious situation, and it must be met in real terms by reversing developments and not by trixing with statistics. I will answer Mr Bali's question seriously. He asked me about this: how can I believe that restoring a proven inefficient tax reduction, that is to say the reduction in the social security contribution for young people, and instead spending money on education leads to more jobs? I'll explain why I believe that for good reason. It was a proven inefficient tax reduction, which was also very expensive, and which gave very little bang for the money. Today we have a situation in the labour market with high vacancies, where many jobs are not added because you do not get the right skills. This is partly because we have a poorly functioning match with an authority that does not work as well as it should after eight years of mismanagement. However, not getting a hold of sheet metal workers, crane drivers, strong electric electricians and nurses today hinders the growth of new jobs. Sometimes it's about large groups, but sometimes it's also about key people. When they don't exist, companies can turn down an order. That is why I believe with good reason that moving money away from inefficient tax cuts and spending it on education is a policy that favours the growth of new jobs.
i-dddc22fb2234f6e6-72	Mr President, I would like to I was going to respond to what Ali Esbati said. It was a funny exercise in causality. He said that the government destroyed the unemployment fund and that it led to an increase in unemployment. Then he said that the reason the employment rate has increased is because we have such a well-functioning labour market in Sweden because the security is so great and so on. Shouldn't it be the same causation there? If the then government and the Moderates destroyed the unemployment fund and made it more insecure and if this is the causal link, should it not also have led to a worse functioning labour market and thus a lower employment rate? But it didn't happen. Then the Minister for Employment raises the argument that we fought at the end and that the employment rate then increased. Sweden broke record in employment rates twice. The first time was just before the financial crisis when our budget had been in force for one year. The second time was after the recovery of the financial crisis. It is the two times in modern times that Sweden has broken record in employment rates. All this happens to have happened, and there is no correlation or causality to government policy. However, everything bad that has happened in Sweden during this period is a direct effect of government policy, and it is there that all measures should be corrected. This is not a serious discussion. However, I share Ylva Johansson's view on education, mainly that we see a distortion of unemployment and that it is largely about the low-skilled. But the question is again why it is precisely companies that should be taxed for this.
i-dddc22fb2234f6e6-78	Mr President, I would like to I would like to say once again that Sweden has a higher employment rate now than we had when we were at the peak of the economic boom before the 2008 financial crisis. In between, then, we have had the worst recession in modern times, where countries in southern Europe – Greece, Italy, Portugal and so on – have had to make substantial savings in welfare and severe cuts. Not only have southern European countries been affected, but Finland and Denmark have also been affected by this. Sweden has strengthened its welfare during the same time. I understand that the picture that Ylva Johansson describes here goes home when she meets her party friends and that it goes well with the demagogy here in the pulpit. But it's as far from the truth as you can get. The same applies to sick leave. They have thus fallen sharply since 2006. We have seen an increase that is worrying, and we have to deal with it. But we do not do that by going back to the policy that Ylva Johansson was involved in in the previous sosse government, where people were actively being driven out of the labour market. At the heart of this issue, however, is whether or not it should pay off to work. If you get as much money in unemployment as you get in pay, is there enough drive to work? I mean, it doesn't. If there are not strong drivers for work, you will seek fewer jobs, and you will be more discerning to take the job you may be offered. Maybe it's not the funniest job or the dream job. But this will lead to an increase in exclusion. There is very strong research support for this, both nationally here in Sweden and internationally. Therefore, I think that the Minister for Labour should answer whether she thinks it should pay to work or whether she thinks it should be equally profitable to live on benefits.
i-dddc22fb2234f6e6-82	Mr President, I would like to When the old government resigned, the employment rate was back at a level that was basically the same as when the government took office in 2006. There had thus been no improvement in the employment rate. We are therefore back in the position of the previous Social Democratic Government. Even then, in an international comparison, we had a very high employment rate. We have it today, too. I'm still not happy. I believe that we can further increase the employment rate. That is also the purpose of government policy. I can understand why the Moderates think it is obsolete to look at unemployment. It was quite clear that it was felt even in government position because it allowed unemployment to get stuck at very high levels, and it allowed youth unemployment to get stuck at a level that allowed us to receive EU support to combat it. It is remarkable that we are satisfied with a situation in which other countries pay us because we are unable to deal with our own youth unemployment. I therefore understand if the Moderates think it is an obsolete measure. However, this government does not think so. Mr President, I would like to Fredrik Schulte is now trying to suggest that people who are unemployed today and who live on compensation from insurance would be paid as much as when working. That's stupid. That's not what it looks like. I think it says something about what reality Fredrik Schulte leans against when he argues. It is the case that the unemployed find it difficult to manage their finances.
i-dddc22fb2234f6e6-85	Mr President, I would like to Jenny Petersson has asked me if I believe that the increase in employers' contributions leads to more jobs. Furthermore, Christian Barenfeld has asked me why I believe that the municipalities should be compensated for the increase in the cost of the increased employer's contribution and why companies should take the cost shock that the government clearly and correctly notes affects employers and wants to protect the municipalities from. I reply to the interpellations in a context.
i-dddc22fb2234f6e6-87	I have explained several times in this House the government's position on the abolition of social security contributions for young people. Studies from, among others, the Institute for Labour Market and Education Policy Evaluation, IFAU, show that the reduction in social security contributions for young people has generally had little impact on employment relative to its cost. The reduction of social security contributions for young people is not considered an appropriate measure to address the more serious problem of youth unemployment. Unlike most other employment subsidies, the reduction means that all young people are subsidised, not just those in need of support. This represents a significant loss of deadweight as it subsidises young people who already have employment and jobs that would have come about even without a subsidy. On the basis of the results of the IFAU report, the reduction does not appear to have had any effect on those groups of young people who are primarily in need of support, i.e. those with a weak link to the labour market. Instead, the government believes that resources should be directed at young people who are far removed from the labour market. In 2014, the unemployment rate among young people aged 20 to 24 without upper secondary general school education was good 40 per cent. In addition, there is a group of young people who are neither working nor studying and who are completely excluded from the labour market, in some cases for several years. In this group too, there are young people in need of support. For these young people, the Government's initiatives in the 2015 spring bill on more educational places in areas such as municipal adult education, educational contracts and trainee services are very important. In addition, the Government decided in June 2015 on a directive to a coordinator for young people who are neither working nor studying (Dir. 2015:70). In terms of compensation to municipalities, the government made the assessment in the 2015 spring amendment budget that the local government sector needed to be compensated because a return to normal employer's contribution meant increased salary expenditure for municipalities and county councils.
i-dddc22fb2234f6e6-91	Mr President, I would like to I have asked Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson if the increased employer's contribution leads to more jobs. I believe that this is a legitimate question from many different points of view, but I can put it on the basis of the Prime Minister's statements on job streaming. The promise in the 2014 election said it was all about the jobs. If I am allowed to form a government, I will ask every minister and every head of authority to tell me whether a decision means more jobs or not. This is what the current Prime Minister said before the elections. He also said that proposals that do not aim to create more jobs at all should not be put forward. I assume that Ylva Johansson u from that take statement can answer my simple but very important question as to whether the increased employer's contribution leads to more jobs or not.
i-dddc22fb2234f6e6-93	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for Employment for the answer to my interpellation. I asked my question to the Minister when the journey to significantly increase the cost of young people's employment has started. The government and the Minister have often said that the goal is to achieve the EU's lowest unemployment rate by 2020. At the same time, we can see from the budget that the overall proposals are more job creation than job creation. Regardless of what the government is doing now and what effects the government estimates that previous efforts from the alliance government have had, as well as how it estimates that the jobs will be increased by the fact that the cost of employing not least young people in several ways increases through the government's policy, I have some questions based on how one now acts. The cost of hiring young people hits many employers hard. For many municipalities with small margins, when you get those increases, it can actually make the difference between a budget in balance and a loss. If you had to bear those costs, you would have to cut down on your staff or reduce something else. Nevertheless, the government and the Minister for Labour have recognised this, which is why they are providing financial compensation for the considerable cost of the government's policy. This is confirmed by the Minister in his reply to my first question. I asked two questions, one concerning compensation to the municipalities. The second concerns the lack of compensation for private employers, and the answer is missing here. The question is why the corresponding compensation is not given to all employers, but only to the municipalities. I take it that the government does not think that this is a problem when private companies have a huge increase in the cost of hiring. Not infrequently this concerns very small companies with small margins, if any. I suppose, however, that is how I will interpret Ylva Johansson's answer to my question about the companies – or rather the answer that is not given at all: that the costs for the companies increase is therefore not a problem for the government. Is that how you're supposed to interpret it?
i-dddc22fb2234f6e6-98	Mr President, I would like to It is just as the interpellants say: The government's priority in each issue is the jobs. This also applies when it comes to financing the necessary proposals. For eight years we have tried a policy of major tax cuts which has been paid for by major cuts, not least in the education system. It is politics that has not worked. There are very good reasons for investing heavily in education, not least in combating youth unemployment, and major efforts need to be financed. It is important to finance them in a way where the positive impact of the investments is significantly greater than the cost of the funding. The discount on the youth payer's fee is just such a funding. It is a very expensive tax subsidy that was introduced by the previous government and which has demonstrably not worked. There, reality and the collective corps of experts give the same picture. With good reason, we can also assume that spending on education will have a significantly greater impact on unemployment and, not least, on youth unemployment. That is why the government is doing this re-prioritization. The assessment is that overall it will lead to more jobs than if we were left with a policy of large tax subsidies on employers' contributions, which has already proved to be ineffective. I would also like to respond to Christian Holm about the municipalities and county councils. There is a very strained situation in Sweden's municipalities and county councils today. There are enormous commitments to welfare. This applies in both school and care for the elderly, as well as in social care for children and young people and adult education. You are now also in a position where you have many new arrivals to take care of. I do not think that there is in principle any municipality or county council that does not have a very strained economic situation and looks forward to continued major economic challenges. In this situation, the government wants to provide resources to the municipalities and county councils, so that they can cope with the very important tasks for the welfare – and for that matter also for the jobs – for which municipalities and county councils are responsible. This is why the government provides resources to municipalities and county councils.
i-dddc22fb2234f6e6-103	Mr President, I would like to So I did not ask the Minister for Labour to review or sum up the Minister for Labour's view of the policy pursued by the Alliance Government. I asked the Minister for Labour whether the increased employer's contribution leads to more jobs or not and what job streaming leads to. Four out of five jobs are emerging in small businesses. Without companies – no employees. Companies and employees create jobs and growth in Sweden. They generate tax revenue that finances our common welfare. It's important. We Moderates are often told that we are talking about driving forces. It is very important to have driving forces for work and for entrepreneurs. With fewer companies we get fewer money for our children's school and our elderly care. But I can interpret the Minister's lack of response so that you do not want to account for any number of jobs. Or can I interpret it as missing the job streaming on this point? I note that Ylva Johansson and the left-wing government have forgotten their most important question, how there will be more jobs. The labour market linked to education is very important. However, the question of whether increased social security contributions lead to more jobs or not seems to the left-wing government and Minister of Labour Ylva Johansson have missed. In their budget proposal, the Minister for Employment and the Government writes: .....................................................
i-dddc22fb2234f6e6-109	Mr President, I would like to I did not get an answer about the companies. I may have missed something, but the word business wasn't mentioned once. That is what the question was about. It is recognised that the policy pursued is so damaging and costly to employers that it is necessary to compensate municipalities and county councils for their strained financial situation. I have also been a municipal politician at the same time as the parliamentary mission, and it is extremely difficult for municipalities and county councils to get the budget together. I am also out a lot and meet both large and small companies. They are not so that everyone has a budget that is not strained. They are affected by government policy. My question was simply: What is it that makes the government – when one realises how damaging one's policy is – choose not to compensate the companies when compensating municipalities and county councils? It is, of course, in small and medium-sized enterprises that very many of the jobs are emerging. Many young people get their first job in small and medium-sized enterprises. The same applies to most of our new arrivals. If one is to interpret how one chooses to compensate municipalities and county councils, the government must also be aware in one way or another that this puts away the legs of other areas, but one chooses to turn a blind eye to it. It would be interesting to hear the reasoning about entrepreneurship. Since it is not even included in the answer, it is clear that companies are not particularly prioritised in the Red-Red Government's budget. Is that how we're supposed to interpret this? I can't interpret it any other way. I wish the government had a policy that led to more jobs, but you write yourself even the opposite, that that is not the case. It is always good to have a review of what it looked like under the alliance government. But we've been working on that for eight years. It is good if the government continues to relate to the alliance government, and it is great if the Moderates, the other alliance parties and the Social Democrats talk about the alliance's budget. But it is also good if the government tells you exactly how to reason in its own budget.
i-dddc22fb2234f6e6-115	Mr President, I would like to There may be problems when you write your lines before you have listened to the answer. I have answered both Jenny Petersson's and Christian Holm Barenfeld's questions, but I am happy to answer them again. Reassigning inefficient tax cuts to investment in education and training provides more jobs. That is why the government is doing this. We eliminate the inefficient tax reduction with the employer's contribution, and we invest new state grants in municipalities and county councils. They need it because the challenges in municipalities and county councils are very large. They are in a very strained position to cope with welfare. It is not the case that the government, with its policies, is putting away the bones of the companies, quite the contrary. We are abolishing a tax reduction which, in the context of an overall assessment of all the experts, is considered to be very inefficient and has significant, if not enormous, deadweight costs. The abolition of an inefficient and very expensive tax reduction is not to put away the legs of companies, especially as we are spending money on what companies, municipalities, county councils and all employers really need, namely to get people with the right skills for the job vacancies and to have greater mobility and a better functioning labour market. That's what the government does. Mr President, I would like to Nevertheless, I must reflect on this. The Moderates often try to make it sound like tax cuts do not have to be paid by anyone. So you can deal with tax cuts without looking at who pays. Every tax cut is paid by someone. The money should be taken from somewhere, if you are not to do unfunded tax cuts, of course, but then it is future generations who will pay for increasing the loan. That's what it looks like. The old government's tax cuts were paid through significant cuts in the education system, in welfare and in security. It was a policy that did not work when it came to jobs.
i-dddc22fb2234f6e6-121	Mr President, I would like to I don't really know what to start with. But I was just going to make a little comment about taxes and who earns the money and owns it. Here it is a clear dividing line between the left-wing government and me as moderate. According to Ylva Johansson's view of taxes, it is the state that owns every penny in this country. The person who works can be happy to keep a small portion of what you earn from your job or invest in companies. It's the state that owns every penny of tax. I did not get the answer to the question whether the increased employer's contribution leads to more jobs or not. I think this is an important issue. I didn't ask for an account of the reduction, but I asked if it leads to more or fewer jobs, now that you have job streaming this. If you are not prepared, Ylva Johansson, then you are unprepared and I think this is a brilliant example that you may have missed to work streaming this proposal.
i-dddc22fb2234f6e6-124	Mr President, I would like to We may have a general debate on the cost of hiring and hiring the social security contribution for young people and its effects. We can have many and long debates on this, but we will certainly not be in full agreement on this issue. However, regardless of what one thinks about the reduction in the social security contribution for young people and how it looks, this was not the issue. The question was to compensate municipalities and county councils for the pain so much with the red budget, the Social Democrats' and the Green Party's budget, that it is believed that it will be unsustainable if they do not get extra money. However, according to the Minister for Employment, this is clearly not a problem for businesses. The Minister for Labour then comes to the argument that any tax reduction is paid by someone. I would very much like to turn it around. Every tax increase that Ylva Johansson and her government colleagues vote through means that money is taken directly out of the wallet for every person who works hard every day in our society. In this situation, it is with Ylva Johansson's reasoning that every honest working person in our country should be happy for the crowns you get to keep per earned hundred. That is a line of reasoning that I think is very wrong. The tailings have been high from the Minister for Labour and the government regarding employment policy. In this situation it is said that the county councils and municipalities are compensated for the extra large cost increases. However, the private employer who hires and contributes to increasing our growth is allowed to pay the bill and receives no compensation. That must be how we're gonna interpret it.
i-dddc22fb2234f6e6-128	Mr President, I would like to I'll answer for the third time. Yes, abolishing an inefficient tax subsidy instead of spending money on education and investment leads to more jobs. Both tax reductions and increases are paid. It is a strange reasoning that only tax increases need to be paid but not tax reductions. If you say that one part needs to be paid, it's probably the other way around if you don't implement unfunded tax cuts, as the old government did. Major unfunded tax cuts were implemented which left over a situation of very high government deficits. Large deficits in public finances are also not free of charge. They must also be paid, and they affect the possibility of making other investments. It would be good if the Moderates could sober up a bit in tax policy and see that there is always another side, that the tax cut must be paid through cuts in other areas. Then it is a balance to do which gives the best effect for the jobs. For this government, which I belong to, jobs are what governs. That is why we are moving inefficient tax subsidies to active efforts for jobs. Mr President, I would like to I don't have much hope for the Moderates. A renewal of its policies would be carried out following the loss of elections. They went home to their chambers and pondered. Last summer we were told that there was a new policy. Now we are proposing a sixth job tax deduction. It is a policy that did not manage the jobs when it was implemented. That additional job tax deductions would be the solution to challenges in the Swedish labour market I think few other than the Moderates believe.
i-dddc22fb2234f6e6-132	Mr President, I would like to Fredrik Schulte has asked the Minister for Labour if she sees any risks of a cut-off in health insurance reducing the labour force. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. Government policy aims to make health insurance more secure, efficient and predictable. The Government has therefore decided on 24 September on an action programme for increased health and reduced sick leave. The aim is that the increase in sick leave that has been going on since 2010 should be broken and that we should achieve what has long been a goal, but not achieved: a low and stable absence. The government is clear that the person who has the capacity to work will also work. The person who is ill and therefore unable to work must, however, be entitled to benefits from sickness insurance. This shall apply as long as the work capacity is reduced due to illness. Those who are in need of contributions from Arbetsförmedlingen must be offered these. On the other hand, labour market policy interventions and activity support from the Employment Service should not be used – as is happening – as an alternative way to support people who, due to illness, lack work capacity and conditions for work-oriented rehabilitation. Since the expiry of the 2010 deadline, some 100 000 people have been secured. This is not primarily about people who have moved on to the labour force. Most return to insurance, and many have been insured twice and some a third time. On the contrary, some have been made redundant, retired or supported by a partner. It is not reasonable to put all these people under the psychological and economic strain of the longer deadline in order to be able to find a smaller number of people who can be helped back to work. We will provide people with support for return to work, but this will be done with an active insurance fund, good workplace rehabilitation and work-focused healthcare. It does not depend on a longer time limit and should take place well before two and a half years of sick leave. The government is now making major investments in housing, climate change, infrastructure, skills and matching, which we see will lead to more people in work. Our assessment is that it is possible to combine more people in work with health insurance, which also provides security for citizens.
i-dddc22fb2234f6e6-140	Mr President, I would like to As I said, Fredrik Schulte could not be here, so I take his place. The changes in health insurance and the number of people in Sweden who are on sick leave or perceive themselves as ill are quite interesting. In the early 2000s there was an epidemic in Sweden. No one has been able to determine medically what this epidemic was, but health - insurance rates just exploded for some reason. No one yet knows what massive disease was specifically targeted at women and which contributed to an extremely high proportion of people on sick leave. Then another epidemic suddenly erupted, so that people could absolutely not work ever again and were retired early. Of course, this had no medical bearing. There was no change in the labour market that suddenly destroyed human lives in two years and forced people out of the labour market, but it was evident that changes were taking place while norms and trends changed in society. It shows that this issue is far more complex than the desire to work on the one hand and suddenly people just get sick on the other. That is why it is relevant to discuss health insurance also in relation to the labour market. We know that more generous health insurance legislation leads to a reduction in labour force participation. In turn, the decline in labour force participation leads to lower employment. That is why this is a very sensitive issue. That's a huge amount of money you're talking about. It gets a little dishonest when the Minister says that health insurance has increased since the last parentheses were introduced in 2010. The far parentheses were introduced in 2008, as the Minister himself knows. Since then, despite the large increase since 2010, the total costs of the health insurance system have decreased by SEK 30 billion. I think we can both agree on that. However, it is relevant to stop the increase we are seeing today. Here it is not only possible to look unilaterally at rehabilitation. There is also a need to look at the labour market as a whole and both the medical and norm reasons behind the changes. This is where the government's response becomes rather substandard. In fact, the system is made more generous. However, there are not strong enough measures in the other direction to ensure that people do not end up in long-term sick leave or crowd out of the labour market and do not come back from the health insurance system.
i-dddc22fb2234f6e6-146	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Mr Bali for his speech. I understand, however, that you want to have a serious discussion on this. I'll share the picture you're painting. It is very complex when it comes to what is behind the highly fluctuating sickness rates we have in Sweden. There we stand out compared to other nations and have done so for many decades. We have statistics from Försäkringskassan back from the 1950s. You can see very clearly from the beginning of the 80's that it is accentuated further. One of the things that happened in the early 80s was that women came into the labour market in a much higher proportion than they had done before. Women have tended to be highly over-represented in health insurance throughout this time. Then it's just like you say. How to design compensation systems and the regulatory framework has an impact. The economic cycle has a major impact. We know that the financial crisis that we had in the 1990s and the restructuring we then had in the public sector in Sweden had a strong impact on these figures as well. What has also happened in these decades is that Sweden has gone from being an industrial nation to being a service society with everything it means. Then, too, a strong wave of globalisation has affected the Swedish labour market. For example, if we look at the state of the illness today, we know what the diagnosis is. We have gone from being a country where it has been very physical to that it is almost all about mental illness. It dominates both men and women since 2006. Of course it makes you need to think in other ways. Above all, it is important to try to think in a way that means that we can achieve a low and stable sick absence in Sweden. It benefits this government, and it benefits another government that is in power. It also benefits companies in Sweden, public employers and individuals. That is what the government is now trying to bring forward a rather strong package of measures. The introduction to the interpellation debate was a lot about the longer time limit in health insurance. I'm very skeptical about it. I think I have made that very clear. I believe that this is a failed part of the rehabilitation chain. It was an ambition when it was introduced that about 10 percent of those who were insured would return to health insurance again. Now we know the numbers don't look like that. It is 80% who will come back to health insurance again, and about 2% will get an unsubsidised job in the open labour market. Of course, it is amazing for those individuals, but that was not what was intended. We also know that it is far too far into a case of illness for the vast majority to be able to accomplish something. In addition, it has taken resources from both Arbetsförmedlingen and Försäkringskassan to administer the longer deadline that we believe could be better used to make trials early, to keep in contact with employers and health care and thus support people in getting back to the labour market earlier.
i-dddc22fb2234f6e6-154	Mr President, I would like to It is good that the Minister says that an interpellation debate should be based on a serious discussion. It should be a starting point. What the government is talking about is that you should think in other ways than just the longer time limit. However, if the expiry date today does not work, what does the Minister think is the reason why health insurance has reduced 30 billion in costs despite the increase we have had? What do you think we've done right? What is the reason for that? This is where I think government policy is limping. You can remove the time limit. But then you have to have very clear and very strong measures to get people not to get stuck in addiction. We know that part of the declarations of illness is that people have been on sick leave for a long time and thus become more ill because they are on sick leave. There is plenty of research to support this fact. Sick leave itself, i.e. being away from the labour market, reinforces illness. This is where the government limps in the answers by having more contact and trying to make it a little better. Such reforms tend to flow into the sand. Here I can say self-critically that what the previous government did very wrong was that it was based on many reforms in, for example, the labour market, from coaching and such things, which had a very weak effect. These effects were simply overestimated. That is the risk I see the government is taking. You go from robust systems and robust rules to coaching models.
i-dddc22fb2234f6e6-158	Mr President, I would like to I can also be self-critical. Let me start at that end. What happened in the early 2000s when the sickness rate rose very much was that there was a political crisis awareness. Much was about, as you were into your first post, that there were many older women. It was a lot of public sector and 50-plus that it was all about. It was people who had been pushed out of the labour market, partly because of the major changes made in the 1990s in the public sector. There was pressure in those workplaces. It was then that we first saw what was then called fatigue syndrome or fatigue depression. Today we are talking about mental illness and using other terms for it. As a result, a great many people went into early retirement. They'd been on sick leave a lot. That's what happened. There you can think about how you could have better taken advantage of people's ability to work. I really think so. On the other hand, when I look at the effects of the expiry of the deadline, there are a great many women who are facing the more distant deadline. The absolute majority are women. It's 80 percent coming back to insurance again. But of those who do not come back again, 27 percent of women in the 60 - 64 age group of those who have been insured have been retired. Let's talk about women who can't fight anymore. Instead of fighting with Försäkringskassan and the health insurance system, they choose to take early retirement. We are talking a great deal here about groups which, from the outset, have, on average, 30% lower pensions. This means that they have a worse economic situation. We have had an increase of almost 100 million in aid for supply. We have also had a large number of people who no longer have a registered income. Differentiating – however this may be expressed, if it is a shorter time limit or early retirement – can be considered. What needs to be done in order to create stability and credibility around this is to make the right efforts early. As Hanif Bali himself said, already 70 days into a sick case the probability of you returning to the labour market is radically reduced. We are talking about up to 70%. This means that we need to have a better connection when people seek primary care, for most people do today. With the entrance of primary care, it is a matter of taking into account return to work. We need to discuss more about sick leave for mild and moderate mental diagnoses really is what is right. That discussion is difficult, but we need to take it. There are studies that show that it may not be at all the best. Perhaps the best thing is that at least some people are still at their place of work. Employers must be supported in being able to assume their employer's responsibilities both in preventive work and in workplace rehabilitation. There we are now giving an assignment to, among others, Försäkringskassan. The Social Insurance Agency receives increased support of 250 million to support it at the previous time limits in the rehabilitation chain, when you really try work capacity, in order to get in faster and earlier and do this better. I think that's more of going the right way. What we have put forward now is also something that largely supports the parliamentary social security inquiry.
i-CJvfJsou9GxQRzeHaNzwLd	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered by Minister for Climate and Environment Åsa Romson, Minister Åsa Regnér, Minister Anders Ygeman, Minister Gabriel Wikström and Minister Aida Hadzialic. An issue shall be of a horizontal, general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. Minister for Climate and Environment Åsa Romson answers both general policy questions and questions within her own area of responsibility.
i-dddc22fb2234f6e6-172	Madam President, I would like During the current parliamentary year, Parliament will take a position on a bill concerning the host country agreement with NATO, the so-called Host Nation Support. The agreement aims to ensure that the host country can provide effective support for military activities on its territory in the context of exercises, crisis management operations or other operations. Several leading environmental partners have been critical of Sweden's cooperation with NATO. The environmental party's foreign policy spokesperson, Valter Mutt, wrote only in May in Svenska Dagbladet that NATO-led aviation and marine exercises increase tensions in the Baltic Sea region. In addition, it is stated in the Green Party's party programme that Sweden will stop renting out Swedish land to NATO. My question goes to Deputy Prime Minister Åsa Romson. Does the Deputy Prime Minister believe that the host country agreement is something that strengthens Sweden's defence capabilities and also gives us better opportunities to live up to the solidarity declaration's intention to be able to give and receive civilian and military assistance to and from our neighbouring countries?
i-dddc22fb2234f6e6-175	Madam President, I would like Ladies and gentlemen! As far as Sweden's security policy is concerned, it is extremely important that we deal with this issue with caution, long-termism and as much unity as possible. This is also why the cooperation government has been very positive about the fact that we in Parliament have had as broad a deal as possible in terms of the future security policy direction and the construction of the Swedish defence. That is how I come to the question of rapprochement with NATO. It is an issue that is being discussed in many parts of society, and the government considers this to be quite natural because it is one of several strategic partners that we have in the area of security policy. There have also been other debates on other collaborations, not least our institutionalised cooperation within the European Union and what builds on Nordic cooperation, not least with Finland.
i-dddc22fb2234f6e6-177	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank you for your answer, which was not really an answer to my question. Let me turn it around. Peter Hultqvist has said in a TT interview during a visit to Washington in May that the cooperation line we have chosen is the right one for Sweden. It does not mean that we have any fear of touching NATO. This means that we are working with Na to a fairly high level. Not long ago, when you were in the Red Green opposition, you demanded, or perhaps rather suggested, that the United States should dismantle its military bases around the world. I wonder how the Deputy Prime Minister views that demand today in the light of the statement by the Minister for Defence and your old attitude. I am quite convinced that the Swedish people want to know. This is a very important issue for Swedish security.
i-dddc22fb2234f6e6-179	Madam President, I would like As I began by saying, the government clearly sees the importance of cooperation, not least on security policy issues. As the Minister for Defence has already made very clear, we have no fear of touching NATO. On the contrary, we have several exercises and cooperation with NATO, and we have a host country agreement under discussion, which is also about strengthening certain elements of this cooperation. Then there are further NATO discussions in the Swedish Parliament. I'm well aware of that. But we also have investigations there. I am convinced that these discussions continue in all party groups, but the message from the government is clear. We have no fear of touching NATO. We have several collaborations that we value, not least Finnish cooperation and cooperation within the European Union. I believe that this debate will continue.
i-dddc22fb2234f6e6-181	Madam President, I would like My question also goes to Åsa Romson. As you know, the Migration Agency now has major problems as a result of the severe migratory pressure. As a result, it has chosen, among other things, to activate a crisis plan and set up a refugee camp in Rinkaby. Rinkaby is a town of about 800 inhabitants, and the camp camp would accommodate about 10 00 0 people. My question is, how does the government expect the preparations to be? What are the preparations made at the moment, and how will this affect the locality?
i-dddc22fb2234f6e6-183	Madam President, I would like It has not escaped anyone that we have a refugee crisis in the world. This crisis is affecting Europe, and Sweden has been one of the strong players in ensuring that Europe also assumes the responsibilities of a humanitarian superstate like the European Union. It is a refugee crisis that affects Sweden. It affects our whole society, and not least it affects the people who come here. The fact that there are so many at the same time means that the systems really need to be scaled up. Not a day goes by without the government, the government authorities, the Swedish municipalities, the Swedish NGOs and many citizens in Sweden actually seeing that this situation exists. The simple answer to your question, Member of Parliament, is that we are doing a great deal to make this situation as good as possible for all parties, not least so that we can have as good a reception for the families with children, the women and children who come and for all the refugees who seek their sanctuary and have the right to do so according to the international rules that the government respects. We will do so throughout the country.
i-dddc22fb2234f6e6-186	Madam President, I would like That we do a lot is not really an answer to the question. How, in fact, will health care, school, care and basic welfare be affected in this locality? Reception would mean an increase of approximately 1 300 percent in the population. So there are 800 people who are suddenly going to be 10 800. A People's Party councillor in Kristianstad has already declared that it cannot be received as it is now. Kristianstad has had a very large reception. How, then, will it work with 10,000 new migrants on very short notice in a small town like Rinkaby?
i-dddc22fb2234f6e6-188	Madam President, I would like Let me start by being very clear. The information about a tent camp for 10,000 people in Rinkaby outside Kristianstad is incorrect. There are no plans whatsoever for such facilities or institutions. It is true that there is land in the state's possession, and it would be partly positive for the municipality to use it in the current situation for further settlements, which could be used, among other things, for the reception of refugees. It's about the size of maybe 1 000 people. I do not think that here in the Swedish Parliament we should continue to spread false rumours just in order to scare up an opinion. I do not think it will benefit the construction of a strong Sweden, a strong welfare and a strong school for the future.
i-dddc22fb2234f6e6-191	Madam President, I would like My question also goes to Deputy Prime Minister Åsa Romson. Yesterday we had a presentation of an investigation that has been working for two and a half years, the secondment agency. It has looked at how we should be able to react so that the Swedish regulatory framework should be in line with EU law. We introduced lex Laval a number of years ago. Now we have had a review of it. However, there is something that I am amazed about and that makes me raise this issue today. On many issues we and the Green Party have been on the same side. It has been about the view of migration, integration and having an open and welcoming society, where we have also opened up to labour migration in a way that has not been possible in the past. Then I am a little confused when I note that the Green Party is getting into the same boat as the Swedish Democrats on this issue and is prepared to make it more difficult for foreign companies to establish themselves in Sweden, also in a way that is risky. It is about that we can actually lose the unique Swedish model. How does the Deputy Prime Minister view it?
i-dddc22fb2234f6e6-195	Madam President, I would like From one to the other. It is a serious situation in the Swedish labour market when it comes to some industries where you have problems maintaining the Swedish model. It is about us establishing and maintaining good practice in the labour market here and having contracts that are transparent, negotiated and, as it were, human. We usually call it a collective agreement or something similar to a collective agreement. Now I haven't been able to get into the whole investigation in detail. As was pointed out the other day, and it has not yet, so to speak, passed my table. But I represent a government that really wholeheartedly stands up for us to continue to have the Swedish model in the Swedish labour market. We shall stand up for the possibilities of collective agreements. We will stand up for a labour market where there is order. We have also had problems with the lex Laval judgment. We agreed on this across party boundaries during the last parliamentary term.
i-dddc22fb2234f6e6-198	Madam President, I would like Now it sounds like it's the Wild West. It is not that it has not been regulated in the case of posted workers. On the contrary, it has been very regulated. It has also followed the Swedish model and EU law, not to forget. The proposal presented yesterday is unlikely to be compatible with EU law. That's one part. The second part is that we have a government that claims that it will build what is missing. It can be said that the objectives set by the government itself do not even reach half. Moreover, if these opportunities are made more difficult – the construction industry is one of the most likely users of seconded workers – then it will not be close to achieving the cautious, half, goals that the government has set itself. Then there will be even more strange signals from the government. Do you want it to be built more, or do you want it not to be built more?
i-dddc22fb2234f6e6-201	Madam President, I would like Yes, it is well known that the Swedish Government has high and ambitious objectives, not only in addressing the enormous housing shortage that we have in Sweden, but also in addressing the unemployment figures. We need to have a job goal in Sweden that is ambitious and high. We all stand up every day because that is the way we have to go. This also means protecting a Swedish labour market where it is orderly. It is about the fact that we have laws that work in the EU system but that also work for those who are here working and for those in Sweden who enter the labour market. We'll have to get back to you. Now I'm commenting on an investigation that came the other day. It is not customary for the government to make decisions on the day an investigation comes. Nor are we going to do that in this case. We'll have to look at the investigation in more detail. But we are in favour of a labour market where there is order. We are in favour of a labour market in line with European legislation. But we are also taking steps to modernise it when we see shortcomings. There have been shortcomings with regard to the parts of posting in Sweden. Otherwise, we would not have been quite in agreement in Parliament to set up this investigation.
i-dddc22fb2234f6e6-205	Madam President, I would like My question also goes to Deputy Prime Minister Åsa Romson. The Swedish government is taking a great responsibility to deal with the refugee disaster that the world is currently experiencing. There is also a great public commitment to this issue, and there are many Swedes who volunteer with money, gifts and humanity to help in the refugee situation. During Tuesday's large fundraising gala The whole of Sweden shuddered the commitment to refugees and the Swedish reception of refugees from both artists and TV viewers. This commitment is, of course, invaluable, and it supports the efforts of the government. But I think it would be good if Deputy Prime Minister Åsa Romson could tell us more about what the government is now doing to deal with the situation. There is popular support. It is, of course, also important that the government clearly highlights what is now being done to deal with the situation that has arisen.
i-dddc22fb2234f6e6-207	Madam President, I would like Yes, this is the big task we have– then I mean in a broader sense. Not only the government but every responsible politician in the country currently has a primary task, and that is to cope with the situation that we are currently in. It is a transformation that will change Sweden, but I am convinced that there will be a good change in the future when we can actually switch out and become a larger and stronger society with more diversity and with more people participating in the construction of welfare. It is quite right that the volunteering efforts are absolutely fantastic. Like many others, I followed the gala. I had the opportunity to sit in place and see these fantastic Swedish artists who celebrate the commitment to have a good reception. But this does not mean – on the contrary – that there is no action on the part of society. We are aware that they need to be scaled up. Every day there are officials, bureaucrats and politicians who are sweaty about the tasks they are currently carrying out.
i-dddc22fb2234f6e6-210	Madam President, I would like As I said, Sweden takes a great responsibility. There are also other countries, such as Germany, which take a great deal of responsibility in these matters. But there are other countries in the European Union that are not taking such a great responsibility and, as it were, are trying to crawl out of the common European responsibility for dealing with the situation. I would like to ask Deputy Prime Åsa Romson how the government works at European level to ensure that the whole of the EU and all the EU Member States actually contribute jointly to resolving the situation that has arisen.
i-dddc22fb2234f6e6-212	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would just like to say that every day we have a migration agency where you work shifts – and you work seven-day week – to solve the reception at the primary stage. We have every day principals at the schools who receive new students. It is not about single new students, but about many new students, who they bring into the schools. It's not volunteer work. It is a work that lies on their shoulders but which we all politicians must take responsibility for enabling. Every day we have a social secretary in the municipalities and an enormous number of municipal officials working for reception, not least of unaccompanied refugee children, and the placements to work. It is an incredibly large device running to ensure a good reception. Then there is the whole integration phase and the whole start-up phase with the social partners and so on. So it's a very big job. It is a work that we must scale up. We are aware of that. We also work to raise awareness throughout Sweden. We do so also in the European Union. I think it was clear that at the last EU meeting, the Prime Minister and the Minister for Migration did what they could to get a good decision in the EU. But more are needed, even there.
i-dddc22fb2234f6e6-216	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Ygeman. Honour-related violence and repression against women and LGBT people have received increased attention. There has been a seminar here in the Riksdag, and reports come from vulnerable suburbs that honor-related violence and oppression are a reality. But there is a problem. When you want to do something about this and ask around what you can do, you are met with the answer that there is a lack of statistics showing the extent of this crime. Nor is there any knowledge of exactly who commits the honor-related crimes. I wonder what Anders Ygeman's own level of knowledge looks like. What does the Government know about the very extent of honour-related violence and oppression?
i-dddc22fb2234f6e6-219	Madam President, I would like Perhaps you should be careful not to self-exam your own skills. Even with such a good examiner as Maria Abrahamsson, perhaps you should not. We are, of course, following the development of honour-related violence. And we follow the sometimes rather twisted debate that is taking place around the honour-related violence. Of course, one of the important tasks of the police, but also other authorities, is to prevent it. It can be about social authorities, social contributions and many other things. When it comes to statistics, it is almost a task of the Swedish Crime Prevention Council or Statistics Sweden. But, of course, we will make the necessary efforts to ensure that the police keep an eye on that crime.
i-dddc22fb2234f6e6-222	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I believe that the Government does not really know either. I understand that, because no one knows – not social workers, not RFSL, not the police, not prosecutors, not lawyers and not Correctional Services. You don't know. Without the actual knowledge of the extent of the honor-related problem, it is difficult to overcome it. Nevertheless, I think that the Government has some kind of idea of how to highlight honour-related crime in the statistics or in other ways.
i-dddc22fb2234f6e6-224	Madam President, I would like I am not responsible for statistics in general, but I am responsible for all matters relating to order, security and emergency preparedness. But I take these problems very seriously. We will have to review the state of knowledge and see what other efforts need to be made to make the violence of honour visible. There is, of course, a serious problem of demarcation in what is honour-related violence or not. This shows, not least, the confused debate on honour-related violence. Maria Abrahamsson can be sure that I take this issue seriously. I see there's honor-related violence. I mean, the police should be working on that particular question.
i-dddc22fb2234f6e6-229	Madam President, I would like I also have a question for Deputy Prime Minister Åsa Romson. It is an issue that affects the refugee crisis we can see right now in the world. The United Nations Refugee Fund (UNHCR) now plays a crucial role, partly by providing assistance to more than 55 million refugees worldwide and partly by being present in 123 countries. The UNHCR plays a very important role in standing up for and defending the right to asylum, when we can now see that countries not least in the European Union are trying in various ways to restrict precisely the right to asylum. UNHCR is led by a High Commissioner. The current High Commissioner, Ant ó nine Guterres, will end in December. A new successor shall be appointed. One of the candidates is former Danish Prime Minister Helle Thorning - Schmidt. My question to Deputy Prime Minister Åsa Romson is whether the current government supports Helle Thorning - Schmidt's candidacy as the new High Commissioner for UNHCR.
i-dddc22fb2234f6e6-234	Madam President, I would like It is absolutely true, as Mr Linde says, that the UNHCR is one of the absolute key organisations in the enormous work of 60 million refugees in the world. UNHCR alone takes care of an estimated 25 million. This is why Sweden is channeling such a large part of humanitarian aid to the UNHCR and believes that it is extremely important. Not least at the gala to which reference has been made in the past, it was clear why the work of the UNHCR should not be undermined. That is the way in which refugees enter the part of the world called the European Union. I spoke to Guterres myself during the UN days last weekend. His term of office is almost over. He has been on an extremely long assignment – ten years. It is absolutely right that his mission ends.
i-dddc22fb2234f6e6-237	Madam President, I would like This will be one of the most important international appointments during this government's term of office. Who becomes High Commissioner will have a major impact on the world's refugees and on the work of defending the right to asylum at a time when the right of asylum is challenged and challenged by far too many. Sweden is one of the largest donors to UNHCR. It gives us great influence over the process of who is to be appointed. I am a little surprised that we cannot get a clearer message from the government about who you will have as your candidate. There's a fire in the knots. The post will be appointed soon. For me, Thorning Schmidt is a very inappropriate candidate for the mission. Helle Thorning - Schmidt was criticised by UNHCR when she was Prime Minister for restricting the right to asylum and for restricting the right to family reunification. She chose last spring to go to elections as leader of the Danish Social Democrats with a message in which asylum seekers were suspected. Can Åsa Romson today rule out that this government will support Helle Thorning - Schmid t as High Commissioner for UNHCR?
i-dddc22fb2234f6e6-241	Madam President, I would like I note that this is a process of appointment that is not in Sweden's hands, but in the hands of the UN and the UN Secretary-General. It is true that countries sometimes take a position in their recommendations to, or dialogue with, the UN on the candidates, above all what qualifications such a candidate should have. Sweden has made a clear demand there. We place high demands on those who take up the task also to have an ambitious agenda in terms of standing up for human rights, legal ways in and the regulatory framework. This is an extremely important qualification requirement on the part of Sweden. We also note that Helle Thorning - Schmidt is one of the candidates. I met several candidates during my stay in New York. There are several competent and qualified candidates. Helle's been head of government. In this context, we can see that an earlier background of this kind is usually relevant. She also belongs to the Nordic circle. With these findings, one can probably come up with different positions on what is good for the organisation. Ultimately, the Secretary-General of the United Nations will decide. But Helle Thorning - Schmidt is Nordic candidate.
i-dddc22fb2234f6e6-247	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Home Affairs Anders Ygeman. We have seen in the past week that the focus of the UN Scraper in New York has been on the Syria of the War. It has been for two reasons, on the one hand to put an end to suffering, war and conflict, and, on the other hand, to people fleeing the terror that exists in Iraq, Syria and surrounding countries. In April, we raised the issue of the possibility for Swedish authorities to prosecute more people who participate in combat, go down there and come back. After all, about 300 have gone down and 100 have come back. Sweden proposed, among other things, increased resources, as we have also done today, to the Swedish Prosecution Authority against terrorism and war crimes. We in the People's Party were a little surprised to see that the government's budget does not strengthen the prosecution system to at least make it easier for the authorities to prosecute and eventually condemn the terrorists who actually commit the heinous crimes.
i-dddc22fb2234f6e6-251	Madam President, I would like The most surprising thing, Roger Haddad, is that during its reign the bourgeois government failed to criminalize the terrorist war voyages. That is the main single reason why we have not been able to judge people for having gone on the terrorist war trips, participated in training camps and participated in funding. Despite the shortcomings in the legislation, police and security police have made a number of arrests. In recent years, we have strengthened the prosecution office by over SEK 130 million, largely with the help of the Alliance's policy. As a result, the Prosecution Authority today considers itself to have good funding. In the budget that is now on Parliament's table, we will make a contribution in the order of 300 million in the next four years to the activities of Säpo in order to prosecute those who are guilty of terrorist war crimes. Having said that, I do not think that 5 million, as the People's Party has proposed, for three prosecutors will be crucial. What is crucial is that we can get legislation in place that can be judged by.
i-dddc22fb2234f6e6-255	Madam President, I would like The Minister of the Interior chooses to mislead the Riksdag. The government has not presented a single crown to a national unit against terrorism. With the People's Party's proposal, it would double the number of prosecutors. Today's staffing is based on the situation of 20 to 30 terrorists who went down. Now we are up to 200 - 300 people. I note that the Minister for the Interior and the Government do not have a single crown for an international chamber for war crimes or for a national unit against terrorism. In addition, the Minister for the Interior promised in both June and August that the legislation will be tightened up in the autumn. I can inform the House that there is not a single proposal at Parliament's table to tighten up the Terrorist Act in the autumn. According to the experts, we will not be able to prosecute any more, regardless of future sharpenings. It is already illegal to recruit, finance and support war crimes in various ways. It is already criminalised. But we need to strengthen the prosecution system if we're going to be able to judge someone.
i-dddc22fb2234f6e6-259	Madam President, I would like I can tell Roger Haddad that Roger Haddad doesn't even have a single crown in the People's Party budget for a terrorist prosecutor. Parliament does not distribute money in this way. Parliament distributes money to the prosecutor's office. Then the prosecutor's office is free to give priority to its activities within the framework of its budget. This applies to the People's Party's draft budget, and it applies to the government's draft budget. It is true that terrorism is, of course, illegal in Sweden, but the shortcomings in the legislation are unfortunately striking. It is forbidden to provide terrorist training, but it is not forbidden to accept terrorist training. So it's perfectly legal, unfortunately, to go to terror training camps. It is this shortcoming that Roger Haddad's government had to plug in but did not succeed in doing so. This shortcoming will be plugged by this government. We will put a proposal on the board of Parliament to criminalise terrorist war trips – something that should have been done a long time ago.
i-dddc22fb2234f6e6-263	Madam President, I would like My question is addressed to Minister of Interior Anders Ygeman. I believe that there are many of us who have recently been affected and touched by the openness and solidarity that very many Swedish citizens have shown to the many who are coming to our country right now. But we must also see that we still have problems with racist structures and discrimination in our society. Earlier this autumn, several attacks on asylum homes, such as boom b placements and burning crosses, were reported. This is of course very important for p olisen, which is an authority for which Ygeman is responsible, to access. In the 1990s, statistics were carried out specifically on the number of attacks on asylum homes. I know that this can also be done in Germany. Is there any desire from the government to be better able to keep statistics so that we can work out the problem?
i-dddc22fb2234f6e6-267	Madam President, I would like This question is similar to that posed earlier by Maria Abrahamsson, but in another area. What is common to the two issues is that they concern offences against a particular group in special circumstances but do not constitute a particular type of crime. This is why police records do not encode under this system. One can discuss the statistics that the police can get better. What I can say to both Maria Abrahamsson and Magda Rasmusson, however, is that the police are monitoring the development and continuously assessing the threat picture both in general and against individual accommodations. This is done in intelligence terms, but the police do not carry statistics that are presented in public. The intelligence work carried out is to strengthen protection around asylum accommodation, if necessary, through increased supervision or surveillance.
i-dddc22fb2234f6e6-270	Madam President, I would like With regard to this type of hate crime, it is partly a matter of assessing whether they have increased or decreased. Brå recently released a report showing that the number of notifications had increased sharply, by about 14% compared to previous periods. What is the Home Secretary's assessment? Are these crimes increasing in number, or is it the willingness to report that has increased? How do the police deal with hate crimes? After all, it is a government priority that the police should work more clearly with these crimes, so that the people who report feel that it gives something, for example for the women we know today are being attacked because they wear veils, are being mocked because they have a break and so on. It is incredibly important as a democratic and open country that we ensure that all people feel involved in our society.
i-dddc22fb2234f6e6-272	Madam President, I would like Of course, I will be careful to review Mr Brå's statistics. But I think the explanation lies in both. Unfortunately, I believe that there has been an increase in hate crimes, but I also believe, and I am pleased that there has been some increase in the propensity to notify. But it must increase further, for a significant proportion of those exposed to hate crime never report it. It has to do with the fact that it is often marginalised groups or groups which, unfortunately, are far removed from the rule of law and do not always feel that the rule of law is on their side. Police have now provided considerable resources to combat hate crime, doubling. Special units have been introduced in Malmö, Gothenburg and Stockholm, i.e. in the South, West and Stockholm region. In the other police regions, special abilities are created to deal with this crime. My hope is that it will increase the propensity to report but also solve more hate crimes.
i-dddc22fb2234f6e6-275	Madam President, I would like My question goes to the Minister for High School and Knowledge. The Swedish National Agency for Education yesterday presented new grade statistics that showed that the number of pupils leaving comprehensive school without upper secondary school qualifications is increasing. We also know that many young people go unemployed, while there is a clear shortage of people who want and can work in, for example, the mechanical engineering industry, school and health care. We have a big match problem. That was also stated by the Government on TV this weekend. There's a deal. We also agree that in some respects the Alliance Government could have done more in this area. My question is: when I ask the minister for high school and knowledge in a year's time, what has she done to reduce the matching problem, what does the minister answer?
i-dddc22fb2234f6e6-278	Madam President, I would like I thank Mr Aron Courage for the question, a very good question. As Aron Modig says, we have a serious matching problem in our labour market. We have a lot of unemployed people, far too many young people who do not fix their schooling and thus end up in unemployment, while very many employers want to hire but do not find the qualifications they need. Then the education system must match this. This is why the government is making historic investments in adult education. We are introducing a rights-based compux, so that everyone can get through high school, we are investing heavily in vocational training to meet the shortages that exist and we will train people to work. This is already reflected in the budget bill presented by the government last Monday.
i-dddc22fb2234f6e6-280	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I am, of course, pleased that the government is taking the matching problem seriously, although I do not support all the measures proposed by the government. Unfortunately, I do not believe that they will have the intended effect, and I even believe that some of them will be counterproductive. Action in all honour, but we are also seeing problems today with young people opting for upper secondary education with simply too little opportunity to actually give a job. I'm sure we need to improve study guidance here. But we also need to get young people to take greater responsibility themselves in order to know which training courses, with reasonable probability, actually lead to a job. Therefore, I would like to ask the Minister: when I ask again in a year's time what the government has done to set off a positive spiral and to get more young people to take responsibility and actually want to succeed, what is the answer then?
i-dddc22fb2234f6e6-284	Madam President, I would like I note that this government has two priorities that are clearly visible in the budget bill that we delivered to Parliament last week, and that is the job together with the school. We invest in the teachers, raise their salaries. We invest in smaller school classes. We give schools that have tougher conditions more resources, so that they can meet their challenges. We invest in professional programmes in high school, which often lead to jobs, so that more teachers become qualified and so that more people want to become teachers in these programmes. And we are working on building up an attractive picture of these high school programmes, something that the bourgeois government unfortunately failed to do because it was more successful to get the professional programmes and their students fed by describing them as something that nothing wants and nothing can. It's very unfortunate, because these are job-hungry students that it's all about.
i-dddc22fb2234f6e6-287	Madam President, I would like There is much to be upset about Sweden's way into the future. But I have a question for Minister Gabriel Wikström about the Swedish snuff. I believe that the Swedish snus is threatened by the government's interpretation of the Tobacco Directive. There is an additional directive, a ban on exposure and a requirement for neutral tobacco packaging. In Sweden we have just over 1 million snusers. This proposal is detrimental to consumer protection and may be contrary to the Freedom of the Press Regulation.
i-dddc22fb2234f6e6-291	Madam President, I would like I thank Erik Andersson for the question. We have a goal that Parliament has endorsed that is about reducing tobacco use in our country. The background to the objective is, of course, that tobacco kills and harms people every year. Over the past eight years, 100 000 people have died from tobacco in various forms, and 800 000 have fallen ill from tobacco-related diseases. I am not sure what the questioner is referring to when he says that we want to reduce consumer protection. In previous debates in this House, however, it has been questioned whether snuff should really be classified as a health hazard. Let me conclude, therefore, by reading out some of the carcinogenic substances that have been detected in snus. These include N-nitrosamines, polycyclic hydrocarbons, aldehydes, heavy metals and the alpha rays polonium 210.
i-dddc22fb2234f6e6-294	Madam President, I would like I hear the government's learned what snus contains. Snus is a food just like rice cakes, and rice cakes are also dangerous according to the alarm that came the other day. But there are no proposals to ban the list of ingredients of rice cakes, are there? Compared to the rest of the EU, the number of people affected by tobacco-related diseases in Sweden is low. That's probably a lot of Swedish snuff. It is therefore a mystery that the government opposes the Swedish snus. Some small producers of snuff have grown up in Sweden. They are now concerned and are faced with uncertainty if they can grow, given that the directive will not be finalised until 2016, if I do not remember wrong.
i-dddc22fb2234f6e6-297	Madam President, I would like Swedish policy in this area has been successful because there has been a broad consensus and we have worked hard on the tobacco issue. We have also done so in one and the same context. Snus is not classified as food. However, it is partly regulated according to the Food Act. It has to do with the production process and that one should be able to inspect so that there are good working conditions where snus is produced. We are looking at whether this can be regulated in a more appropriate way, but this has been the main reason. Why remove the list of contents? Erik Andersson thinks it is a deterioration for the consumer. The Tobacco Products Directive states that a ban on the indication of nicotine, tar and carbon monoxide content of tobacco products is about not giving misleading information to the consumer so that the consumer believes that a product containing slightly less tar would be more healthy. You can't prove it.
i-dddc22fb2234f6e6-300	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Aida Hadzialic. At the moment, a large number of asylum seekers are coming to our country. The currents of asylum seekers do not seem to be waning, at least not according to the forecasts I have taken note of. According to information, perhaps a thousand asylum seekers a week come to our country. Does the Government have any idea how many of these will go to primary and secondary school? Is it possible to accept all these asylum seekers? These people don't speak Swedish. Are they going to regular classes right away? Are they going to be taught Swedish? If they are to receive Swedish education, are there Swedish teachers? It's a huge number. How many of them are in high school? If so, are they going to Swedish upper secondary school?
i-2ETFr8rPncPvDCaPy88297	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the question, Robert Stenkvist! Let me start by being a little personal. I came to Sweden myself as a child, and thanks to the Swedish school I was able to make a class trip. For me, language and education were the main keys to entering society. Of course, I want every child and every youth who comes to Sweden to have the same opportunity. Therefore, the government invests heavily in order for schools with tough conditions to have more resources. We invest in teachers so that there can be more teachers to the so-called introduction programs and to the SFI. We invest in Swedish from day one. The study associations have been tasked with teaching Swedish to asylum seekers. So we are building a proper chain of language teaching and education.
i-dddc22fb2234f6e6-306	Madam President, I would like I, too, have made a class trip because I am standing here today. Will all the measures taken by the government be sufficient? This is an unplanned influx. We'll see about that. How will this affect the Swedish school? We have seen that it has fallen like a stone in the international PISA surveys, and we shall now make every effort to reverse developments. How will this affect the development of international measurements? According to P4 Malmö, Malmö primary school administration has decided that there will be free school choices for the new asylum seekers who will come. Schools must prepare a certain number of places for asylum seekers to make a free choice in school. Is that a sensible priority in times like these?
i-dddc22fb2234f6e6-310	Madam President, I would like I think it's going to go well for most people. It has looked like that in history, and I think it will look that way even in the future. Of course it will be an effort, at least in the beginning. Of course, high school students who run from a war and come here a little harder. At the same time, we see that the students who have come before school age are doing well. The question is not whether the student has a foreign background or not. The question is more about when they start school and in what context. That's why we focus our resources on all children getting a good start in school. We strengthen where it is needed in upper secondary school by, for example, investing in teachers, which is the key to a good schooling.
i-dddc22fb2234f6e6-313	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Regnér. In recent years it has been noted that in many municipalities there is a serious situation within individual and family care, particularly in social care for children and young people. In several places, the business struggles with extensive staff turnover and high workload. There is a need for sufficient resources, local, clear leadership and good conditions for managers. Political priorities are also needed. Children who are vulnerable must be given priority by society. Social care for children and young people must be well placed to be able to do a good job.
i-dddc22fb2234f6e6-317	Madam President, I would like I thank Yasmine Larsson for the question. This is an urgent area. The fact that society is able to meet children with great needs when they need society is one of the most important things we can invest resources on. Social services are under strong pressure, especially social care for children and young people. There are many reports about it from Sweden's Municipalities and County Councils, from trade unions and from academia. We know that's the case. The crisis arose years ago, and the government has taken on it with great energy. We have met all the national parties to identify what is needed. I have strengthened the task of the national coordinator, and we have allocated EUR 250 million per year in the budget over a four-year period, EUR 1 billion in total, to strengthen social care for children and young people. We also do more.
i-dddc22fb2234f6e6-321	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. It is very gratifying that there are reinforcements and improvements in this area. Deterioration in various parts of our social security system over the past few years has brought increased pressure on social services around the country. This, of course, goes out on the children. Notifications of concern may be left lying. Investigations are not carried out within the statutory time limit. The direct encounter with the most stressed social secretaries affects children and their guardians. It is essential that children's rights are guaranteed in all areas, not least in social care for children and young people. If we find systematic errors in dealing with child matters, it must be corrected. Is there such work going on to find the systematic errors and shortcomings?
i-dddc22fb2234f6e6-324	Madam President, I would like Yes, it certainly does. As I said, we have a national coordinator whose mission I have reinforced. She keeps reporting to me about observations as she does. The crisis that exists is partly an inherited crisis due to the deterioration of other systems that have increased the pressure on social services. It is also due to a number of regulatory changes that are good in nature, such as complaints of concern and follow-up of cases concerning children placed. However, it has brought with it a lot of administration and bureaucracy, and the coordinator has actually concluded that during a working day an average of 15 minutes is spent talking to the child. There is a need for room for leadership efforts, new routines, other ways of working and staffing. That's why we're dedicating this billion to strength up. Now there are also many unaccompanied refugee children. It is another major task that needs to be accomplished, and it is important that we support social services in this work and that municipalities also give it a good priority.
i-dddc22fb2234f6e6-328	Madam President, I would like I would like to address my question to Aida Hadzialic in her capacity as Minister of Justice. I am very pleased that Sweden is one of the countries that today takes great responsibility for the many people who are on the run. One of the most important parts of society that it works to meet these challenges is school. Everywhere we now get signals – not least from teachers' unions and people who are to be regarded as very knowledgeable in this area – that they are asking for Swedish as a second language to a much greater extent as competence development but also that it should be introduced into the Swedish teacher education. I want to see this in a total knowledge-lift perspective. How does our minister responsible for these issues see that the government has so far been so stubbornly opposed to introducing Swedish as a second language in teacher education?
i-dddc22fb2234f6e6-332	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the question, Camilla Waltersson Grönvall! First of all, the government invests heavily in the school as a whole, but also in those parts of the education system that have to do with new arrivals' language teaching, education and more, because we know that it is the language together with the education that is the answer regarding establishment. This government invests money – both in the spring budget and now in the budget bill – in skills development for both existing and new teachers, so that they can acquire qualifications in Swedish as a second language.
i-dddc22fb2234f6e6-335	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Aida Hadzialic. The important effort to get this into teacher training is still lacking. We Moderates have proposed this. LR has proposed this. The student organisation of the Association of Teachers has proposed this. But the government has been a pretty strong opponent of going in and making these changes, as you have to do in teacher training. Current teacher students point out that this is one of the biggest shortcomings you can see. In addition, we have other challenges, such as digitalization skills and leadership development. There is much in the Swedish teacher education that needs to be developed, but I would particularly like to highlight Swedish as a second language as one of the most important issues. All teachers come into contact sooner or later with children who have a mother tongue other than Swedish. Do we not now have to go in and change the Swedish teacher education?
i-NBVvaAGowUoGngQXEeLT8L	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Camilla Waltersson Grönvall! I think we should focus on what is important, that is, that the government enables more teachers to receive education in Swedish as a second language. We do so for teachers who are active today and for those who want to become teachers in the future. We see that there is a great need in terms of introduction programmes and SFI, so those channels are opened, while the government is expanding both school and adult education, so that today's children can pass school better but also so that more adults can be educated both when they are new arrivals and when they are already part of society. We want education to lead to jobs and establishment in our society.
i-dddc22fb2234f6e6-340	Madam President, I would like I v ll ask my question to Minister Åsa Romson. One of the most important initiatives of the future in Sweden is the high-speed roads around the country. In the last week there has been a great deal of political discussion on this subject. There has been talk of a quote from China and that you could save 25 billion on building the high-speed train and that it could go much faster. It did not turn out to be a quote, but it was a call for interest with a execution plan that has come to the chairman of the Transport Committee. My question to the Government is whether the Government has become aware of this notification of interest and execution plan and, if so, how.
i-dddc22fb2234f6e6-344	Madam President, I would like Thank you for asking. I believe that the debate on the need in Sweden to build trains that go faster and on time goes back more than a week. I would say that this discussion has taken place in recent years. Not least, there was a strong impetus for discussion during the last parliamentary term. It is positive that there is now a very strong commitment because we need to expand the Swedish rail system. We need to strengthen it and expand it, and trains need to be able to move faster in the future. Clearly, it is interesting to hear what other actors in other countries say about this. They have done this in open seminars and in other ways, and there are, of course, also discussions within the framework of the Swedish negotiations, where the government's negotiator versus the municipalities and regions are looking at what strengthened capacity they need. All knowledge is needed in this about how to build fast and robust and make it as cheap as possible. I think that is a very good basis for Swedish railways. That is the attitude of the government, and I have seen that more are sharing.
i-TS8rVLV9AUTrQooyWCpew7	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Åsa Romson. Unfortunately, I did not understand any answer to the question whether the government is aware of this notification of interest from the company that has been under discussion over the past week, i.e. the notification of interest with a execution plan – if and in what way the government has become aware of this. Otherwise, it is remarkable that there has been a company that is interested in investing in Sweden but that the government has not become aware of this. I would like the Minister to clarify his answer to this question, if the government has become aware of this or not.
i-dddc22fb2234f6e6-350	Madam President, I would like I assume that within the framework of the work area in the government where one is very interested in knowing what other actors can contribute when it comes to expanding the Swedish infrastructure is well informed about the open knowledge seminars and other things that have happened where actors have been very clear about what they can do in Sweden. There is no regular procurement process for high-speed roads in Sweden, and that is why there is not the formal act that I have understood that some have understood what would be on the table. However, as far as details of the exact documents received by the Minister for Infrastructure are concerned, I cannot, of course, reply correctly here in Parliament, because I do not have the register from the Ministry of Infrastructure.
i-dddc22fb2234f6e6-352	Madam President, I would like My question is addressed to Minister Aida Hadzialic. Today we have many unemployed, and a lot of them are young people. Some have passed high school, while others have incomplete grades. We also have those who have completed upper secondary school education that lacks professional skills, such as programming, sheet metal storage or health care. This is a problem, because many entrepreneurs are asking for this knowledge. We also have problems with municipalities that want to organise polytechnic education but do not. This would solve some of the matching problems in the labour market. There is a need for a kind of intermediate between upper secondary education and a pure polytechnic education where you can read precisely the professions. How can we meet the needs of individuals and the labour market?
i-dddc22fb2234f6e6-356	Madam President, I would like I thank Lena Emilsson for the question. I am very proud that the government is investing in the University of Applied Sciences in connection with the budget bill that has now been presented. We are making a 20% increase, which will mean that more people will be able to get through these trainings. We know that nine out of ten people who get through a YH education get a job. We also know that we are tackling the matching problem in the labour market while at the same time providing companies with the skills they need. So we hit two birds with one stone. This means that many more people will come to work while the labour market will be able to acquire the skills it wants. The University of Applied Sciences will therefore be a very important tool for the matching to be better in our labour market.
i-dddc22fb2234f6e6-358	Madam President, I would like There has been a problem for those who have completed upper secondary education. They have not been able to read special professional subjects, such as health care, programming – it may be easier in itself – sheet metal storage and so on. They have been referring to applying for a secondary school programme with such a focus. Then they always come last in the queue, because they already have a high school education. Is there a risk that they will end up last in the queue even in the future if they just want to re-uptake occupations?
i-dddc22fb2234f6e6-360	Madam President, I would like In connection with the Government's investment in the Knowledgelift, where we are expanding adult education and including vocational adult education and training, while at the same time expanding the university of applied sciences, more will be given the opportunity to be trained in order to take on the jobs that exist. The problem that involves many people getting into the back of the line and not being able to train themselves to what we know the labour market is asking for is now being washed up by the government by investing so heavily in the education system and opening up to lifelong learning. I have as my motto that those who do not have an education, those who have an old education and those who have the wrong education should receive the right education. That's how this government works.
i-dddc22fb2234f6e6-362	That concludes today's Question Time. I would like to thank the ministers and the participating Members.
