i-d8cc2398f940cddb-2	Mr President, I would like to This is therefore about the Parliament taking a decision to pay the EU membership fee. We do not decide how large and wide it should be, but it is pre-determined rules that determine the extent of the EU membership fee. There is therefore little room for comment on it. On the other hand, we in the Moderates would like to support a reservation that we have, which is that we think it is important that Sweden clearly states that we need to reform the EU budget in the long term. The EU budget is very rigid and old-fashioned. It is very much a matter of giving priority to agricultural aid and various types of regional aid programmes which do not go along with time and which are ineffective. That is why we want to see a clear long-term agenda for reforming the EU budget in favour of more investment in growth and innovation to make the EU and Sweden more competitive. It's an important mark. On the other hand – I should like to add, Mr President – the mark that the Left Party wants to make, by withholding the EU membership fee, is a sort of mark that goes too far. It is an expression of the fact that the Left Party de facto wants to leave the European Union. That is something that we absolutely cannot support. With those words, I would like to support the committee's proposal under paragraph 1 and the Moderates' reservation under paragraph 2.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-5	Mr President, I would like to Good morning! I will begin by commenting on Fredrik Schultes's speech. I note that the Moderates are entering very open doors and setting out a policy on which we agree in committee: that the EU budget is too large, that it should be reduced and that it should become sharper in what is being invested. Unlike the Moderates, the Left Party wants us to use some muscle towards the EU. In 2015, especially in the autumn, the large flow of refugees from the Middle East has been a hot and central political issue in both Sweden and Europe. The Swedish Government has worked towards a more balanced distribution of refugee reception among European countries. Sweden is the largest recipient of refugees in Europe per capita. Together with Germany and Austria, Sweden has up to now stood up in a crisis and received people fleeing war and persecution when other European countries have failed. That is why it was gratifying when the EU Member States agreed on a common distribution of refugees who are currently in Italy and Greece – then other countries would take more responsibility. Now, the European Commission has also proposed that Sweden should receive a one-year derogation from this redistribution, but the government also believes that refugees who are currently in Sweden could be eligible for relocation to other EU countries. Unfortunately, this agreement has proved to be more word on paper than real political action by the EU Member States and the European Commission. EU countries decided to redistribute 160 000 asylum seekers between themselves. It has so far been almost a flop. Only 1 per mille or 160 migrants have changed countries. In recent months we have seen how the Swedish Prime Minister has more or less begged and prayed to various European prime ministers but in principle always been rejected. The Swedish Government has therefore recently proposed and implemented, particularly today, drastic proposals in the Swedish asylum reception. From the fact that Sweden has previously been a welcoming country, the government is now adding refugee and asylum policy, under the cheers of the Swedish Democrats, to a much more restrictive asylum policy. The government's objective is clear. They want fewer people to go to Sweden. It has now extinguished the point of light that has previously existed for many refugees to seek refuge and have an opportunity to create a better life here in Sweden. The government has made it clear that more European countries should take greater responsibility, but instead of targeting the EU and European countries, this government has consistently targeted refugees. If the Swedish Government is serious, you should withhold the Swedish EU fee. If the government were to take such a measure, it would be echoed in other European governments and show that the Swedish Government is serious about wanting a more solidarity-based reception of refugees in Europe. The Swedish EU fee for 2016, month by month, would then be withheld until other European countries start delivering. Since joining the EU, Sweden is and has been a net contributor to the EU. This means that every year we pay more to Europe than we get back in the form of different subsidies. This means that Sweden's economic muscles are strong. Other Member States have shown their muscles through threats of withholding the EU levy. The last time it was the UK that paid too little in the EU levy and would therefore have to pay interest. However, it resulted in the EU deciding that the UK would be deferred by one year and that no interest would have to be paid. The refugee crisis has shown that the EU is not working. The EU has broken its own rules and has not complied with the decision it has taken. The EU's work on the refugee crisis has proved to be disastrous and has hit refugees hard. We are now seeing how country after country closes its borders. To show how inhumane and bad the EU has acted, the government should suspend the EU levy as a lever for more countries to take responsibility. Sweden tends to boast about the importance it has in the EU, both as an active Member State and as a net contributor to the EU. That is why it weighs heavily if we choose to suspend the EU contribution until the EU and the countries of Europe assume their responsibilities on the refugee issue.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-16	Mr President, I would like to In Sweden, there has been broad political agreement since EU entry to be very restrictive with the EU budget: to try to keep spending down and therefore also the Swedish membership fee. It has been the guiding principle of both bourgeois and social-democratic governments. Göran Persson was very fortunate in his time and managed to negotiate the discount that Sweden still has and that we must protect in the future. The bourgeois government was involved in negotiating the current multi-year budget and did a decent job, even if it did not get all the way through to reforming the budget – it is about getting it more forward-looking, cutting back on unproductive agricultural aid and regional aid and instead investing more in research and development. In view of this, I can find it a little strange that the Moderates have a reservation, when it is actually the multi-year budget that the bourgeois negotiated that is now in force. There is broad agreement that in the future we must become even tougher in ensuring that the membership fee is kept down and that the EU budget is more productive. I support the proposal in the report.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-20	Mr President, I would like to So far this year, Sweden has received 150 000 asylum seekers. Since September, we have received over 100 000 asylum seekers. For several years Sweden has been by far the country within the EU that has received the most asylum seekers against how many inhabitants Sweden has. This, and above all the developments we have seen in recent months, poses major challenges for authorities, civil society and our economy. Those who come here can no longer be guaranteed a roof over their heads. Today there is a shortage of everything from housing and school places to teachers and other staff. Medical and social services are under great pressure, and statutory commitments are set aside. The Swedish Civil Protection Agency has reported that the situation in social services, schools and transfer agencies has deteriorated despite the recent slowdown in the influx. Although the influx would continue to decline, major challenges remain. In this situation, Sweden needs a break in the reception of refugees. The Moderates welcome the fact that the government is taking steps to achieve this, but we believe that the measures are generally inadequate. More EU countries must shoulder their responsibilities. The Moderates therefore believe that Sweden should be able to temporarily reject asylum seekers who come from another safe EU country. As the government has not yet submitted such a proposal, other initiatives are necessary. We agree that the government is given the opportunity to decide on regulations on identity checks for transport by bus, train or passenger ship to Sweden from another state, which is the subject of today's case. A broadening of ID controls to more means of transport than is currently the case can help to create greater control in reception of refugees and to reduce the search pressure in Sweden, which is necessary. At the same time, however, there is reason to be very critical of the government for the inadequate preparation of the proposal. The fact that things have to go quickly does not necessarily mean being careless and turning a deaf ear to those who make important and constructive comments. In fact, I think that the government has done so in this matter. It is particularly unfortunate when it comes to measures that have a major impact on those most affected; the passengers, carriers and authorities involved. The Committee on Justice was present when the Committee on Transport and Tourism invited representatives of the region and various transport companies on the matter. The Öresund region is most directly affected. Every day 33 300 trips are made with the Öresund train, of which 17 200 are commuter trips. The practical problems of ID checks are considerable, as are the costs of the same. How large is dependent on how the government's regulations are designed. In other parts of Sweden, the introduction of ID controls can also have a major impact on those concerned. The Legislative Council gives serious and highly justified criticism of the government on a number of points, including the lack of a serious consultation procedure. The Committee on Justice has heard the Court of Appeal in Stockholm, the Chancellor of Justice and representatives from the police. I can only say that there is justification for the criticisms of the Law Council. It is strange that a referral procedure should be conducted orally via a speaker telephone without proper records that Members of the Riksdag can take part in. That's just not the way it's supposed to be. It honours the Administrative Court of Appeal that they persisted in making their views known in writing so that more people can see them. This is not how legislative work should be done. Our view is that if the need for rapid action had not been so great, the legislative matter should have been referred back to the government for reconsideration. We have also tabled constructive amendments that would have made the proposal better from a legitimate point of view, but the Social Democrats and the Green Party in the government do not want to. It is regrettable, but it says a lot about the government's inability to cooperate internally and with others. Now the government will probably be given significant powers by the Riksdag and a particularly great responsibility for how to use them. There is a great responsibility on the government to carefully examine issues of proportionality, practical application and costs, as well as effects on travellers, carriers and the region when deciding on ID checks. I can assure the House that we Moderates will follow the effects very closely. We believe that the proposal should have been limited to six months and that the government would have to make a regular decision on identity checks. This also eliminates the very strange construction with a withdrawal period. Working on a limited-term law is wise given the many ways in which intervention and shortcomings in the proposal are involved. The government will then have time to correct the shortcomings and give Parliament a better product by the summer. If you do not think six months is enough for the work, it is possible to extend a fixed-term law. We have done so many times in this House. But none of this has been accepted by the government. It is even so bad that we have had to reserve ourselves to get a report back to the Riksdag on how the law and the decree that the government is to decide on are applied. That's remarkable. It should be obvious that in such a matter you want to come to Parliament and tell them. The police authority shall be responsible for monitoring compliance in the event of a decision on identity checks. This represents yet another task that requires considerable effort both in terms of supervision itself and in the practical handling of ID controls, which the police believe can get messy in certain situations. In addition, id-checks on current traffic law lead to an increased need for internal foreigner control vis-à-vis people travelling by car. That is why, of course, there is reason to do what we do, namely point out to the government that the police must have the conditions to do their new tasks. Mr President, I would like to The Riksdag shall make decisions on solid basis. Parliament should also be able to make decisions quickly in certain situations. This presupposes that everyone involved is doing their best to solve the task. We Moderates take seriously the situation that may arise and are prepared to give the government the opportunity to take decisions on ID controls. On this issue, it has not worked, despite the fact that several parties have made constructive proposals to produce a sustainable proposal. This is the responsibility of the government. The Moderates are behind all the reservations that we have left, but for time winning, I only agree to reservation 4. As far as paragraph 1 is concerned, we will refrain from taking part in the decision.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-36	Mr President, I would like to It was not long ago that we in this country could hear a talk in which we were told to open our hearts. It was the culmination of eight years of totally naive and irresponsible mass immigration policy. Unfortunately, it was a continuation of previous decades of high and increasing immigration, but the Alliance took a further step further and allowed the already high level of immigration to double. The disastrous policy led to the now infamous speech where Reinfeldt realized that the system, the economy and, by extension, society were about to collapse. It was, in fact, Reinfeldttern who raked the manege for the situation we have today. Of course, it did not improve because the Social Democrats and the Red-Greens eagerly supported the Alliance Government during its time of mass immigration policy and continued to turn a blind eye to the consequences of politics until just recently. Last spring, Löfven said there was no ceiling on immigration. That senselessness persisted as late as September when Löfven, apparently still in the blue, participated in a manifestation of more immigration. At that manifestation he said that his Europe does not build walls. Here we are. Looks like there was a roof. Looks like border controls were needed. Too bad it's under the gallows, too little and too late. Surprisingly, the ambition of the government seems to be to settle for immigration of 1 000 – 2 000 a week, as Morgan Johansson said. That says a lot. 2 000 a week was the extreme record level that prompted Fredrik Reinfeldt's open-heart speech and that made the Alliance say to the Swedish people that we can't afford anything other than immigration. This extreme policy is, therefore, what the Social Democrats are now aiming for with the introduction of border controls. It's pretty amazing. The Swedish Democrats, as you know, nevertheless welcome what the government is now proposing. It is better than nothing, but to really make a difference it is necessary to adopt the proposals we have put forward in our accompanying motion. The problem with the government's proposal is that everyone can still go on a transport to Sweden, no matter what ID they have. It is enough to have an ID, such as a Syrian passport. Then you'll have to go on. If you have a Syrian passport, you can come straight in. We know from experience that those who are pouring into Europe to benefit from our welfare are very adaptable. They will soon learn to keep the IDs, go on transport and then throw them or hide them on the train, bus or whatever they choose to use. We had the police on the committee not long ago. They also raised that aspect and just said this. It is therefore necessary to tighten up the rules and we propose such tightening up. For example, we propose strict carrier responsibility for the control of passports, IDs and visas. It shall apply to trains, buses, boats and taxis. Unfortunately, however, taxis are not included in this bill. The government says it's not clear enough. But it is absolutely central, and actually this whole bill is not sufficiently investigated, according to all the assessors. The police warned that people will probably learn this and choose, for example, big axi to get into Sweden. We have seen examples of immigrants coming here and then taking taxis from Stockholm to Finland. I do not think that a taxi ride from Copenhagen to Malmö will discourage anyone. Offences against carrier liability shall result in very heavy fines. In case of repeated cases, the authorisation to enter Sweden shall be withdrawn. We advocate that only passports or identity cards from visa-free countries should be accepted. Otherwise, visas shall be checked. This therefore means a stop for virtually all those who now make their way to Sweden to immigrate. There has been uncertainty on the part of transporters about the ability to carry out these ID checks. We understand that this involves practical and occupational health and safety problems. Therefore, we want Sweden to secure the working environment for transport workers by initially covering the costs of security guards, for example. With regard to rail transport, Sweden should provide training, safety staff and a comprehensive technical infrastructure solution. This, of course, involves costs. However, with this policy, we are saving enormous sums of money on extremely costly immigration, which we will then avoid. So there will be a profit deal for Sweden. Let us take a closer look at train traffic! We propose that the Öresund train line be divided, so that the trains go to Kastrup and then back the same route. In between, people have to change train sets and perform a passport and ID check. During the exchange, we want to see rapid automatic barriers where EU citizens themselves pull their passports and identify with fingerprints. A separate system shall handle passengers who do not have such passports or where a visa is required. The SJ trains that go directly from track 26 at Hovedbanegården in Copenhagen should be checked in the same way in Copenhagen. In this way we achieve full control without making it much more difficult for commuters and entertainment visitors travelling between Sweden and Denmark. According to my information, it may be a 20-minute delay for the people, but the trains will go on time as usual. It doesn't cause any traffic chaos. We want real, permanent and comprehensive border controls to be introduced at the Öresund Bridge. All incoming traffic should be controlled – buses, trucks, passenger cars and whatever it may be. The border control organisation must be strongly strengthened, partly with customs staff. We also want to review the possibility of using the Home Guard, and we want to reintroduce the emergency services for several years. They too should be able to help in this work, so that you get a quick and effective treatment. There are technical solutions that should be evaluated. For example, we want to introduce more vehicle scanners, but there are also other solutions. There are gauges that can be inserted into, for example, cargo spaces to measure the carbon dioxide content. This way you can see if people are staying there. There are many different technical solutions you can look at that can also make passenger and truck traffic very efficient. In order to prosecute smuggling across the sea – which is well the next step if Denmark does not tighten up, which they may seem to be doing now – we want to strengthen the Coast Guard and investigate the possibility of using drones to ensure that people do not start transporting people in passenger boats across Sundet. The Aliens Act should be amended so that asylum seekers who apply to Sweden from a neighbouring safe country, in which they are not in danger of being persecuted, or are in a situation involving alternative protection needs, shall be deemed to have submitted an manifestly unfounded application. As a result, these people will be rejected with immediate effect at the Swedish border and will not formally enter the country. The possibility of appeal against these decisions should also be abolished. This can be done without compromising the right of asylum, as the Refugee Convention does not affect restrictions on movement between safe countries. According to the United Nations Refugee Agency, there is also no right to choose the country of asylum. Mr President, I would like to In conclusion, our proposal would be as follows: private individuals and commercial traffic could continue as before with relatively small traffic disruptions. It is important for everyone in the Öresund region, for tourism, trade and work commuting. However, no asylum seekers will be able to enter the country. Instead, we should focus on the system of quota refugees and help in the immediate region. I would also like to point out that the Swedish Democrats really do not want controls against our neighbour Denmark, with whom we have a passport union. We really want all Nordic countries to be open to each other. Unfortunately, however, this government and previous governments have sent out signals that attract the whole world, which is why these measures are now being imposed. It is also this government and previous governments that have lured the Swedish people into the European Union, who, with removed borders within the Union and against third countries, have been forced to come here. Denmark, too, of course, has a responsibility. In fact, they are the ones who allow all these illegal immigrants to pass through their country to Sweden. However, we are already seeing signs that they are beginning to change, which means that, in the long term, we may not need these border controls between Sweden and Denmark, when Denmark, in turn, is conducting border controls against Germany. It is a series of foolish political decisions, taken over decades of misrule, that have led to this. But perhaps what is now happening is the start of correcting the situation that has led to enormous social, economic and cultural problems in our country. Mr President, I would like to I support reservations 2, 6 and 18 in the report.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-57	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by stating that I was able to agree to a reservation from the Christian Democrats. That is probably not the biggest problem one can imagine, but that is not what I meant, but I wanted to ask for the approval of reservation 5, where the Moderates are present. I'm here to correct that. The history of Kent Ekeroth and the Swedish Democrats is like when a potentat reads the Bible. There is no way to see that the situation has changed over time. What has happened in recent months is a dramatic change in relation to what happened a number of years ago. The truth is that you Swedish democrats have been against immigrants and refugees by definition for as long as I can remember. It's your whole life's air. You even go so far in comparative, Kent Ekeroth, that you tip the Social Democrats and the Environmental Party about scanners, measuring sticks and everything you can now use to check that no people are in any container or other. What kind of human vision is that? I think it is important that we keep our border controls in order. We shall have a functioning system that is reasonable, but we must also see that it is about people. These are unfortunate people who are fleeing, who need help, who have rights and whom we must deal with in a dignified way. There is not an ounce of it in the speech. In addition, you, Kent Ekeroth, are about to support a proposal which warns that it will increase trafficking in human beings, that is to say, favour crime. How can it be that the Swedish Democrats want to give the Social Democrats and the Green Party the right to do a little anyway for three years in this area, even though Kent Ekeroth says that it can lead to one or another problem?
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-63	Mr President, I would like to That there has been a dramatic change in immigration to Sweden since last autumn I am the first to sign. It went up from 2,000 a week to 10,000 a week. The most remarkable thing is that the Social Democrats aim at the level that led the former party leaders of the Moderates to go out and tell the Swedish people that we cannot afford anything more. It was the disastrous situation that caused the Moderates to lose the election. That is the level where the Social Democrats aim. We are the first to admit that there has been a dramatic change, but it was dramatic already a year ago, before the elections. We do not want to go back to that situation. We need to go far below it, and that is why we need to impose further restrictions on immigration policy. It surprises me a little that Beatrice Ask is questioning that I am addressing various technical solutions to find illegal immigrants and to stop those who smuggle people into Sweden. Beatrice Ask was Minister of Justice. She should have an interest in the enforcement of Sweden's laws. Then she cannot reasonably think that proposals to find smugglers' leagues or those who are smuggled into Sweden are something negative. It should be positive to uphold Swedish law. It should be positive that we control our borders. It's quite obvious. Beatrice Ask talks about people running for their lives, that it's pity for them and stuff. There are so many people in this world it's a shame, around the world. But it is not a pity for those who pass through Denmark, through Germany, through Austria just to get to the country that pays the highest contributions. Then, when we tighten the rules a little bit, they go home again. They've started going home again. How hard is it at home if, for not receiving enough funding, you choose to go home? I'm sorry, but it's not working. That scam has been called a long time ago. It increases the trafficking of human beings. You can't say that. We have the right to control our borders. If trafficking in human beings increases, it is good that we introduce border controls with sticks, by electronic means, with a lot of staff.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-68	Mr President, I would like to I am not against technical solutions with regard to border controls. What I questioned was the attitude that your speech reflected, Kent Ekeroth, that you are against everything and do not feel at all for the people affected. One must be able to do both, namely to ensure that one has a fixed system and that one has order in the reception of asylum. But one must also realize that it is a question of people. There are two things you have to hold in your head at the same time. It is therefore unfortunate that we have not been given the guidelines and other things that the government intends to issue, because that is in the details that will be important. Sure, it's a pity for people around the world, in many places, but those who come here, who are here for whatever reasons, we have some responsibility for. We need to be able to handle it decently. It's important. As I understood, the flow of refugees to Sweden has been difficult for a very long time, according to the Swedish Democrats. Does Kent Ekeroth mean that it was a serious danger for Sweden as a country two years ago, or how should you interpret your view of it? We have pointed out from several alliance parties that we feel there is a lack of definition of what is serious danger. It is not that Sweden is on the brink of ruin or that everything is threatened, but we see that there may be situations that are risky, and then the government will have a mandate.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-71	Mr President, I would like to We feel for those who are affected. Only recently have we seen reports of how Swedes are affected, how they do not get time for cancer care because the health care system has to take care of refugees instead, how the queues in healthcare, in different sections, have increased drastically because they have to take care of all immigrants who are admitted. It is Swedes who are affected. It is Swedes who are now in the healthcare queues and are dying because of an irresponsible mass immigration policy for people who are not even refugees, who come here because it is convenient to do so, which does not stay in Denmark, which does not stay in Germany, which is burdening our systems so that people suffer, their health is affected, their lives are affected. Why do the Moderates never think of them? Why do the Moderates never think of those who have too little money, who do not have sufficient access to medical care and much more? Why do the Moderates never think of their own people? I wonder. Yeah, they're people. The cost of so-called unaccompanied refugee children is SEK 1,900 per day in Sweden. It is the flat-rate compensation from state to municipality. For the $1,200, we can feed 246 starving children in Africa. What's the most humane thing? You talk about them being people. What is most humane, to waste huge amounts of money on letting them live in asylum castles in Sweden or to help 246 starving children in Africa? What's the most humane thing? The United Nations Food Programme has a lack of money. They sometimes have to halve the rations in the food programs because they don't have the money. What's the most humane thing? Should we feed those people for the day, or should we give so-called unaccompanied refugee children playstation, wifi and manor house in Sweden? What's the most humane thing? I'll answer your question, Beatrice Ask. You asked if it was a serious danger for Sweden two years ago. Yes, it was, because these systems were about to collapse even then. That is why your former party leader stood before the Swedish people and said: I am sorry. We can't afford to give priority to our own people anymore. We're going to prioritise everyone else. It can never be okay.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-76	Mr President, I would like to When politics is at its best, it is well-founded and based on a solid factual background. All those affected by a new law have had their say, and it has been thoroughly tested, partly if the law can be expected to have the effect that is intended, partly what it might have for negative impact on other important areas of society, how it affects people in their lives and companies in their jobs. All of this is weighed together in a legislative process that can sometimes feel long and unwieldy but which should ensure that it will be good and that the bill is compatible with our constitutions. From the government's side, the final step of the preparation is that the Law Council examines the proposal against all of this, and with the blessing of the Law Council, the Government presents the proposal at Parliament's table for a political assessment in which the opposition and everyone else have the opportunity to turn and turn the proposal around and make counter-proposals in their follow-up motions. When the political leadership is at its best, we fight for what is right, despite the fact that the opinion winds are currently blowing in another direction. We are setting out a direction towards a better society, explaining the need for necessary reforms and finding ways to get them implemented. We are not engaged in short-term exploitation of discontent and anxiety, but are working long-term and consistent for what we believe in. When politics is at its worst, it is meaningless and placardical. The proposals seek to capture fear of the unknown and appeal to our lowest urges. Everyone who knows something understands that they are bad, but you get applause for them because they sound powerful. When political leadership is at its worst, such legislative proposals are still being put forward. It is done against better knowledge, with poor preparation and without any special support that the law can actually get the desired result. It is done without any analysis of how other important social values should be taken into account, without any real consideration of how all the extremely central social functions that are affected by the law are actually affected. I wish, Mr President, that the proposal we are now debating belonged to that category. But it's much worse than that. I can only speculate on the reasons why the government does that. The Socialist and environmental party government does this, and I look forward to hearing their representatives immerse themselves in it take in their speeches, but as I see it, the motives are the worst possible. We will hear that there is a crisis, that society is collapsing and that we must quickly bring down the number of people who are now going to Sweden. We will hear how it is referred to that the authorities demand it. Perhaps the terrorist threat will also be played out, even though all thinking people must understand that the terrorist organisation that makes the investment it means to educate and enable a terrorist probably also has the means to obtain a false passport or an act of identity. There are a couple of important questions that we need to ask ourselves in this. How serious is this crisis compared to other crises? When I was growing up in the '70s, we had an energy crisis. Some might remember it. Before that, there was a housing crisis with subsequent million-dollar programs. In the 1930s there was talk of a population crisis, and then there were wars and millions of people killed on battlefields and in annihilation. Throughout the 1980s we lived under threat of nuclear war, where one party was also a capricious Communist dictatorship. Winston Churchill is said to have said something like never to waste a good crisis. I believe that it can be used in a good and bad way, where the worst thing is to exploit the crisis in order to strengthen its own reputation, despite the fact that it risks having enormous consequences for many people. What crisis is the government's response to this bill? Unfortunately, I do not think it is so much about giving the municipalities that are now on their knees – or the school or the social services – the support they need. If so, they would have listened better to the proposals put forward by the Center Party to try to make life a little easier for all of them. Unfortunately, I believe that it is the government's very own crisis of confidence that comes first. I strongly support reservation 1 in favour of our motion, in which we propose that the Parliament reject this dangerous and substandardly prepared hafsverk. No one in here – no one – can say how the law will affect the flow of migrants. In the preparation there are no impact assessments worth the name, no comparable international examples, no scientific basis – only guesses and assumptions. On the other hand, there is a great deal of knowledge about how the law affects not only asylum seekers on their way to Sweden but also a wide range of extremely important social functions. The proposal on ID requirements and related controls threatens to tear apart a well-integrated region and threatens an important labour market. The socio-economic consequences are enormous. I'm not the only one who says that. The shipping industry, the bus and train companies and the South Swedish Chamber of Commerce are all extremely critical. It is also the trade unions that organise the train hosts and bus drivers that the government now wants to force, through heavy penalty payments, to throw off people in the winter cold if they cannot show a valid ID. There are a wide range of very serious objections from the totally unacceptably short referral the government has admitted, not least the stinging criticism of the Chancellor of Justice. It boils to the core of my criticism and our view that we cannot possibly make this irresponsible proposal for a law. There is a system for how we make laws in our country. These legislative proposals, which the Law Council describes as state of emergency and strongly discourages in its referral, are based on a completely substandard preparation and should never have been put on the table of the Riksdag.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-94	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by calling for the approval of reservation 1, which we have with the Center Party. The Center Party put forward quite a few of the points that we have in common. I shall draw up what makes us highly critical and say no to the proposal and to the committee proposal. First of all, it is a transfer of power from the Riksdag to the Government on very loose grounds, quickly and badly treated. With a parliamentary decision, powers are transferred to the government, which – someone was involved in it – is described as being able to end up in an exceptional state where the government is allowed to make the decisions. But that is what we should do in Parliament, we think. We must have a proper preparation and a proper basis to ensure that it works. In this case, the management has been extremely inadequate, and the transfer of powers to the government is one of the major dangers. We shall live in an open and democratic society. Then the Riksdag must be the authority that makes good decisions, based on good evidence. It is precisely the handling – to get the bill out and push it through the Riksdag before the closing – that has been the subject of massive criticism from many, who have raised how badly this has been handled, as we have heard from the pulpit before. In principle, the Council has sawed the proposal along with the ankles. It should be an incredibly strong signal to the government not to implement this but to reconsider: Have the i s in your stomach, redo, do the right thing and make sure it becomes a good basis! All the referrals have said no-- it doesn't work, it's going too fast. You can't have a referral procedure where you sit and talk on the phone! What basis does it provide? It is a danger that we, as a legislative assembly, cannot make the right decisions, which is the basis of our open and democratic society. There are other things. This will cause enormous problems in the Öresund region for the business community, for those who commute and for all those who are going to cross the Öresund. This is an extremely important factor. It will affect the Swedish economy. Today, the Öresund region, Malmö-Copenhagen, is basically merged. There are a lot of people moving across. If you introduce ID controls and stop people then it will have serious consequences for the business community and the workers down there, and it will cost money. That is something we must also take into account. What really comes out of this hasty decision? The consultation bodies that I have listened to in relation to carrier liability – that they should be required to do this and also to impose penalties – say themselves: If we do not even have time to check tickets, how can we do ID checks? This means that they expect penalties to come, and there will be a cost to carriers. It's about train operators, bus companies and boat companies. Everyone will suffer from this, and it may create chaos for nothing. So to the end, as we mention in our exercise. Most of it is about the right of asylum. For the Left Party, the right of asylum is not negotiable. We have signed a convention, the Geneva Convention, that we should comply with this. However, with this proposal we will not be able to do so – the right of asylum is being compromised. In fact, as I am sure more people will develop, this means that we are not complying with the conventions that we have signed. It's extremely serious. If we are talking about an open, democratic society, the right to asylum is a cornerstone of it, that we are open and democratic and receive people in need who come from crises and conflicts and really need our help. It is a foundation in how we build our society. We cannot refrain from that. All declarations from the UN and other things that we have signed will be eliminated. This means that we will in fact be one of the countries that have begun what we think will be a domino effect, with closed borders in the European Union. That will be the result. We're already seeing it. That is not acceptable. I don't need to develop this any more, but I think there will be more people saying these things and developing them in a good way. I would like to conclude by saying that we have actually had the opportunity in the autumn to find alternative ways of solving the pressure through migration and immigration, the refugees that are coming. There are a number of different solutions that are already coming up. There are municipalities that have proposed solutions. There are also various operators who do so and who can ensure that this works. Political decisions need to be taken in this direction. Then we will solve the crisis that exists, which is limited to the flow of refugees. In the rest of society, no one really thinks about it. It is not the case that the refugees are knocking on every door and wanting to take over, but it is a very limited problem with regard to the flow of refugees. I think that is where we should aim for our future solutions, in order to maintain our open, democratic society and not put ourselves in a situation where we make a hasty decision that we will then regret, because it will cause bigger problems.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-109	Mr President, I would like to For the Liberals, it is obvious that Sweden and the EU as a whole should stand up for a humane refugee policy. We have a common responsibility to uphold the right of asylum. However, as has been said, current migratory flows represent a tangible effort for several of our social functions, such as school, social services and health care. Over the past year, the municipalities have confirmed that they are no longer able to cope with the reception in a good way. The Finnish Immigration Service, Arbetsförmedlingen, the county administrative boards and the Inspection for Health and Welfare have in various ways stated that the situation is strained. Those of us who defend a spirit of solidarity must take responsibility for the people who have come to Sweden but also ensure that other social functions work. In the situation we find ourselves in, it is important to emphasise that the reception is not just a Swedish matter. It is clear that we alone cannot manage to receive those seeking asylum in Sweden. The government is now asking for a mandate to introduce ID controls on buses, boats and trains transporting passengers to Sweden. The government claims to be looking for broad support, but the whole process makes us have a number of reservations about the parliamentary support that we will be able to give. The government is requesting state-of-the-art powers. The Swedish Civil Protection Agency and the Swedish Law Council have criticised this. The fact that the bill is interpreted in such a way confirms that the evidence is unclear in what the government is actually seeking a mandate for. Despite this, the government states that the law aims to avert threats to public order and that it should only be applied in very specific cases. The government wants powers that affect people's mobility and put pressure on passenger and freight transport. It is difficult today to assess the socio-economic consequences. The Liberals want to emphasise in particular that families with children will be affected by the government's proposals. We cannot accept a regulatory framework in which refugee families who have fled war and terrorism are divided in Europe or on their way to Sweden. Therefore, the Liberals have their own motion with their own request for the law to be amended so that families with children are exempted from the requirement of identity control. Mr President, I would like to We also believe that the requirement should cover only shipments from EU and EEA countries. We are critical of the proposal that the government should be able to delegate decisions on ID control to the authorities. We believe that the mandate should be given exclusively to the government. In addition, the Government should consult the Riksdag in advance of decisions and inform the Riksdag of its decision in emergency situations. I think that is a reasonable requirement, given that the law will be applied in exceptional situations. The government's proposal is fundamentally wrong. It is true that the government has taken on board our criticism of the proposal to close the Öresund Bridge in certain situations. But the whole proposal has been put forward in this spirit. The writings are basically the same. The government's starting point in the bill is that we can already be considered to be exposed to severe pressures and public danger to order and internal security. On the other hand, it states that the question of whether the conditions for applying the law are met must be assessed when the issue is raised. The police authority, whose assessment is crucial to such a position, believes that today it is not possible to say properly what is considered a public danger to internal security. Against this background, the government – the Green Party and the Social Democrats – must answer the question of whether there is such a danger today. We in the Liberals believe that it is extremely important to be calm in the description of this situation. We therefore propose that the period of validity of the law should be only six months and not three years, as the government proposes. The law should be reviewed every month, and the government should come back with another proposal to the Riksdag. As far as the time limit is concerned, the proposal states: the situation will change for the better within a not too long time. It goes without saying that Sweden must have control over those who enter our country. Sweden introduced internal border control on 12 November. It is a decision that we support. But internal control of foreigners must also be improved. The fact that Schengen's external border control has completely failed, that we have an increased threat of terrorism, while we have unusually large migratory flows, means that we are prepared to accept a model in which ID checks are introduced, on the basis of the alternative requests put forward by the Liberals in the Committee on Justice. However, since all our requests have been rejected by the government parties, I would like to inform them that the Liberals will abstain from voting on ID checks at the time of the vote in paragraph 1. We support all our reservations, but I call for reservations Nos 3, 5 and 9.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-125	Mr President, I would like to Several speakers in this debate have pointed out that the large number of people who have applied for and applied for asylum in Sweden has posed a major challenge for our society as a whole. However, the migration crisis in which we are facing the consequences is always primarily a crisis for the people who are on the run. In Sweden, huge efforts are being made to increase our ability to help. It is a moral responsibility to help people who need protection. We should be proud of the efforts made and made in municipalities, county councils, authorities and not least in civil society. But when we now hear from, for example, the Inspection for Care, the Swedish Agency for Social Protection and Preparedness, the police and the Migration Agency, how severely strained the situation is, the obvious must be stated: Sweden cannot bear the full responsibility alone. The Christian Democrats' line is that we must have a migration policy with both the heart and the brain in order to ensure a humane and sustainable reception both today and tomorrow. In view of the very strained situation, the Christian Democrats agree with the government in terms of identity checks on the basic issue, i.e. that the government should have an opportunity to introduce identity checks in the event of serious danger to public order or internal security in the country. The current situation in the area of migration is difficult and requires both rapid and comprehensive action. But that must not be a reason to be careless in the legislative process. The proposal is inadequately prepared and contains ambiguities, which both the Law Council and the majority of referrals have strongly criticised. The referral bodies have also had an extremely short time and have had to submit their referrals on the telephone. The Christian Democrats have had constructive views and suggestions on how this can be dealt with in the parliamentary treatment. We agree on several issues with the Moderates and the Liberals. We have also actively tried to hold talks with the government on our constructive amendments during the proceedings in the Committee on Justice. Unfortunately, the government has chosen not to listen to this. If the need for rapid action had not been so great, the legislative matter should have been referred back to the government for reconsideration. Substandard preparation must have consequences for the way in which the law is drawn up. The Christian Democrats therefore propose that the law be valid for only six months, compared with the government's proposal for a period of three years. In the meantime, if the Government sees a need to extend the Act after 21 June 2016, the Government may continue the preparation and return to the Riksdag with a more thorough legislative proposal. ID checks may be introduced for a period of six months, as proposed by the Government. The Christian Democrats think that should be shortened to one month at a time. After each month, the Government may re-assess the situation and the consequences of ID checks and take a new decision for the next 30 days. In this way, the regime for identity checks would be similar to the regime for the introduction of temporary border control. We also think that the government's mandate should be limited. The Government shall not be able to delegate to the authority to decide on the introduction of ID controls. The proposal has been developed quickly, the evaluation basis has shortcomings and the measures have far-reaching effects on everyday life, working life and business. Therefore, the government itself must make decisions and take responsibility when introducing ID controls. As far as the design of the ID checks is concerned, we think that some ambiguities need to be clarified. We have reservations on several points in the report. I was thinking in this House of five ambiguities which we think it is important to clarify. First of all, the Christian Democrats believe that children travelling in the company of parents who have ID documents must be exempted from the requirement of identity control. We have pointed this out in our motion. There is no comment on this in the bill. Perhaps the ministers of this House today can explain how this is to be done. Secondly, it is necessary to define the concept of serious danger, which constitutes the props for the introduction of identity checks. This is not done in the bill, although the Law Council has pointed out the problem. The absence of clearly defined legislation poses a risk of arbitrariness. Thirdly, penalties must be designed in such a way that they do not completely remove the bones of transport companies. No specific demarcation is made as to how the penalties are to be designed or at what level they are to be set. This is unsatisfactory because the design of the penalties may be of crucial importance to the carriers concerned. Fourthly, the government must ensure that the police have the means to verify compliance with the law. The police, who are already in a difficult position today, must be given the necessary conditions to carry out this additional task. Fifthly, the identification checks must be carried out in such a way as to limit the negative effects on travellers and carriers. We have had visits by the Chancellor of Justice, the Administrative Court of Appeal, the MSB and the Police in the Committee on Justice. Members of the Committee on Justice have also been given the opportunity to participate in the Committee on Transport and Tourism and to listen to the views of operators on the proposal. The fifth point I highlighted, that the government has a responsibility to limit the negative effects, is urgent because they have such great consequences. There are five questions and ambiguities to which I would like the government to respond today. Unfortunately, we have not been able to have a discussion in committee management, but the proposal lies, we have heard. That is why the Christian Democrats are abstaining from voting to support the Government's proposal in paragraph 1, and of course we are following up the points and reservations that we have and support them. However, in order to save time in voting, I am content to ask for the approval of reservation 4, which concerns the limitation of the government's mandate, reservation 5 concerning the validity of the law and the period of time for the identification checks, and reservation 9 concerning the ambiguity of the children of parents who have identification documents.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-145	Mr President, I would like to Today's debate and decision is about whether the Riksdag should give the Government the power to take special measures in the event of serious danger to public order or internal security in the form of regulations on identity checks in the case of transport by bus, train or passenger ship to Sweden from another state. The Government is also proposed to provide regulations on supervision, control and fines to see if the measures taken under the Act are being followed. The measures shall be limited in time. It is therefore an authorisation and not a detailed law. Mr President, I would like to Some questions and doubts have been raised about the proposal. Among other things, the question has been raised as to whether this proposal would conflict with the right of asylum. According to the Government's assessment, the law or the measures the Government is authorised to take are not contrary to the right of asylum. The EU's refugee policy, based on the Dublin Regulation, is based on the idea that an asylum seeker should apply for asylum in the first safe country to which the asylum seeker comes. As an asylum seeker, you cannot choose which country to examine your asylum application. The committee also held a hearing in which the Administrative Court of Appeal presented its views on the legal situation. They also note, like the government, that since transport originates from another Schengen country, the measures do not conflict with the right of asylum. The committee agrees with that assessment. The second issue I would like to raise is the preparation of the matter. Having been a member of the Constitutional Committee for a large number of years, I believe that proper preparation of a dossier and a reasonable period of time for the referral bodies to make their views known in writing are the practice to be followed. This means a broader and more thorough basis for the Government to make decisions on, and this means that the Riksdag has a sound basis for its position. This is both my basic position and that of the Constitutional Committee. But sometimes, Mr President, the reality requires the government to act quickly. A government must be able to assume its responsibilities in situations where rapid decisions are required. This also allows for the form of government in its demand for preparation. In the form of government, only necessary information and opinions are to be obtained from the relevant authorities. There is no mention of the period of referral or the manner in which the information is to be obtained. The Constitution is so designed that there are some possibilities for faster decision-making and norm-making that can be used, among other things, in civilian crisis situations. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs has stated that the time for making comments can be shortened, sometimes even considerably, during a crisis. In this case, Mr President, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights makes no other assessment than the fact that the current situation allows for a shorter preparation and that the preparation requirement in the form of government is met. The rapidly increasing flow of refugees that has come through Europe and to Sweden means that, based on MSB's reports, the government believes that a number of measures are needed to get breathing space. It is now a major challenge for the various functions of society. MSB is looking at the stress on the functions of society: life and health and democratic rights. And it is with regard to the life and health of asylum seekers, particularly in the care of unaccompanied minors, that there is currently a lack of social services, school and transferee activities. Mr President, I would like to I am intimidated by the view of the Swedish Democrats through Kent Ekeroth's speech in this House. 40 years ago, I was in former Czechoslovakia. Then we use precisely the methods that the Swedish Democrats think we should introduce in Sweden now. They had scanning equipment, they drove sticks into petrol tanks, they basically tore up more or less each and every other car to find that no one escaped from the former eastern block to the west. There's absolutely no time I want back. We want solidarity. The government and the entire Social Democratic Party stand for solidarity. But we also need to be able to keep order. We want to be able to take care of the people who are coming in a safe and secure way, and that is why the government is now requesting this authorisation. The EU legal framework also allows for the necessary measures to be taken to maintain law and order or to protect national security. However, the basic position is that we should have open borders, and so is the absolute basic position of the Social Democrats. With this, Mr President, I would like to support the Committee on Legal Affairs' proposal in its report and reject all motions.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-158	Mr President, I would like to As I said in my speech, we share the government's assessment of the basic issue, namely that the government should have an opportunity to introduce identity checks in the event of serious danger to public order or the internal security of the country. With our proposal, however, that the duration of this law should be six months and that the period of time for ID checks should be 30 days, the government will have the same opportunity to act quickly as Helene Petersson calls for. I do not understand the criticism or what it should be interpreted as when Helene Petersson says that it is important that the government is given the opportunity to act quickly. This assessment shares the views of the Christian Democrats, but we do not think that we can be careless in the legislative process. There is also a need for order and order, which were also two words that Helene Petersson used in her speech. I therefore wonder why Helene Petersson cannot support the proposal by the Christian Democrats, Moderates and Liberals that the period of validity of the legislation should be reduced to six months and that the ID checks should be valid for 30 days at a time, given the massive criticism that has come from the Legislative Council and from the referral bodies. In this way, the Government will have an opportunity to evaluate the proposal and return to the Riksdag if you see that there is a need to continue with ID checks after 21 July 2016. Our proposal does not remove the possibility for the government to act quickly, so I wonder, Helene Petersson: why do you not support the proposals of the Christian Democrats, Moderates and Liberals?
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-162	Mr President, I would like to I find it difficult to see that the law, because it is an authorisation law, would change, whether we run it in six months or in three years. I understand that Andreas Carlson is looking to start regulating details. He believes that it is the Riksdag that will regulate all these things in detail that will be in a regulation today. This, in my view, and that of the Socialist Group, is preventing the government from acting quickly. I am absolutely convinced that the government in the regulation is looking at many of the things you have mentioned and many of the points made by the consultation bodies, and I am absolutely convinced that this is being taken on board. But it's in regulation. It's not in that law. It is rather as if you are calling for detailed legislation here. I think we have concerns about the preparation requirements if the government is to return to Parliament time and again for six months.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-166	Mr President, I would like to I think Helene Petersson is mistaken for my speech. I'm not saying that the government will necessarily come back for six months. On the other hand, we must take seriously the criticisms that have been made by the consultation bodies and the Law Council. The Government is asking the Riksdag today to decide on an authorisation with very far-reaching consequences and major effects. Then I think it would be decent if Parliament had more information about the five ambiguities that I pointed out in my speech, including as regards children, the penalty fees and the props for when the government should be able to introduce identity checks in this case. This needs to be evaluated and looked at more closely in the light of the sharp criticism that has come against the government's preparation of this matter. When you as a Member of Parliament are going to vote on such a proposal, it is good to know what the consultation bodies have said, what the views have been about. We received on the phone to the Ministry of Industry via the Registrar request the comments that have been submitted and refer to the principle of public access to the information. It was to find out what the consultation bodies have said when we are going to take decisions in this House today. On this basis and on the basis of the handling that has been in the Committee on Justice, we have come to the conclusion that it would be appropriate at this stage for the government to be able to act quickly. We share the government's assessment of the basic issue. However, given the ambiguities and the rapid and careless processing process that has been in this matter, we think: let the government now have this opportunity for six months. Return to the Riksdag if you see the need for new decisions to be made every 30 days by the Government in order to be able to continuously evaluate the issues, given the sharp criticism and the far-reaching effects that this has.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-171	Mr President, I would like to The Council thinks that the preparation time has been too short. At the same time, the Law Council says that if the bill will still be approved, one should look at a number of points that they list. This has been taken into account and looked at these points and made changes. The views of other consultation bodies are also presented in the proposal. As far as details are concerned, we have two ministers in this House today, so you have every opportunity in the world to ask the questions that you still have in mind.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-173	Mr President, I would like to Several heavy assessors, including JK, warn against several serious risks with this bill, including that smuggling will increase and that asylum seekers who want to go to Sweden will instead choose dangerous roads. We can imagine a situation with rank boats trying to cross the Sound and the cargo spaces of trucks and the risks involved. We have seen terrible consequences of that policy elsewhere. There is also a real risk that the government, with this bill, will trigger a domino effect, that country after country will introduce similar measures to keep asylum seekers away. I would like to ask Helene Petersson in Stockaryd if she sees the risk of a domino effect, that country after country in Europe joins and raises a new iron curtain at Turkey's border that keeps people away from Europe.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-176	Mr President, I would like to I would like to turn the question around and say to the Center Party: do you see that there are other countries in Europe that are also going to take responsibility? Throughout the autumn, our government has worked with the other countries of Europe and discussed how we can share this responsibility. We see this large stream of refugees as a straight line has increased since the beginning of autumn throughout Europe, also in Sweden. We have to share the responsibility, and the government has done a lot of work on that. The limit is, for the time being, reached that the social functions that we think are important should catch up with. For our part, it is extremely important that we do not get an A and a B team. All those who come here, and who have the opportunity to stay here, should have the same opportunity for education, the same opportunity to apply for a job in the future and the same opportunity to get a place of residence. This is really important to us. That is why the government is asking for this respite. I think that Johan Hedin, if he has been around the country's municipalities, sees that it looks very different and that some municipalities in the country are very overloaded now. They take their responsibilities and work on them, but they ask for a breathing room.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-181	Mr President, I would like to Although Helene Petersson in Stockaryd did not answer my question, I will answer her. Yes, of course, it is a shame that so many European countries are not taking their responsibilities. I would also like to give the government due credit for how to work with this in the European system. However, the fact that a number of countries do not accept their responsibilities cannot be taken as revenue in order not to take responsibility for themselves, on the contrary. Helene Petersson in Stockaryd talked about solidarity in her speech. What is the solidarity in not helping people on the grounds that others do not? And I want to ask again about the domino effect that prevails. Everyone who saw News in SVT yesterday understands that there is something that is a current and very real danger when the Danish Prime Minister stands and says: The laws that Sweden is about to introduce put pressure on our system, so that we must become even tougher. What prevents many from following, Germany, Austria, the Balkans? What is it that prevents us from raising a new iron curtain that will cause an enormous number of people to harm themselves and put their lives at risk? They're completely innocent. They want nothing but to live in peace and freedom. They are exposed to a situation where they do not have many choices. They must move and be forced to flee quickly. Maybe their homes have been bombed. Then the government says: You must enter the rubble and look for your IDs if you want the opportunity to start a new life in Sweden. If you're going on the run, you have to think like this: Where do I have the best chance of establishing a new life when this extremely sad thing has happened, that my whole life and home where I've grown up and felt safe have collapsed? I am proud that so many people choose Sweden. I am proud that so many people think that Sweden is such a good country to live in that they want to come here. Why doesn't Helene Petersson in Stockaryd think so?
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-187	Mr President, I would like to There I agree with Johan Hedin. I am also proud that many people are going to Sweden, and we will need the number of people who come here. We will need labour in different contexts, in the public sector, in industry and in many different service sectors. In every place, we need manpower in the future. And it is precisely so that we can reasonably receive, train and get people into work that we desire breathing space. We have seen how other countries in Europe have passed on those who go there, and under the Dublin Regulation it should be to the first safe country. So it is something we should work for is that there should actually be a registration there and that a distribution is gradually made between the countries of Europe. That's what we're gonna work for. I think we should have a very solidarity-based immigration policy and a solidarity-based refugee policy. We work for it in many different ways. Only today has the government decided on humanitarian aid in Syria. That's how we're gonna do it. We must provide help here and also on the ground. I do not think that this is a contradiction.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-190	Mr President, I would like to Now again we hear a reluctance, this time from the Social Democrats, to control traffic to and from Sweden. Helene Petersson was appalled by the use of technical solutions to control vehicle traffic, in this case across the Öresund Bridge, which is completely inexplicable. She draws parallels to Soviet rule for 40 years back in time, which is completely unreasonable. We therefore have politicians in the Swedish Parliament who seriously believe that illegal immigrants and smuggling networks should not be discovered. Why is there such an unwillingness in this House to uphold Swedish law? If illegal immigrants are found trying to smuggle into the country in violation of our rules and EU rules, does Helene Petersson want us to do nothing? Would she rather we didn't know? Is that why she doesn't want you to control it? Are we just gonna close our eyes and pretend that everything's okay and let them smuggle into the country? Would Helene Petersson be happy? What is the problem with de facto maintaining the limits we have?
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-193	Mr President, I would like to Checks are being carried out today. But using the methods that Kent Ekeroth described is, I think, going back 40 years. Once we have internal border control, the police will strike. We don't just have human trafficking, we have Varus smuggling. Smuggling at all is the responsibility of the police and customs to watch. If it is trafficking in human beings, it falls under the legislation on trafficking in human beings, so there are already regulations here today. It's Kent Ekeroth's methods I'm opposed to. They really gave me a flashback 40 years back in time.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-196	Mr President, I would like to What Helene Petersson says is totally illogical. She says the methods are wrong. Would Helene Petersson prefer instead to unload every box from the trucks and examine them? Then the queues and inconvenience for companies and commuters would be enormous. So the Social Democrats are here saying that we have border controls but that we should check in the worst possible way. We're not gonna use technology. We're going to go back 200 years until there was no technology at all to use. That is completely absurd. Why not use the technology when you can? There's no rhyme and reason in this. Helene Petersson says we have legislation against trafficking in human beings. It's great, but it has nothing to do with this. This is about how to detect the smuggling of human beings. How does Helene Petersson think we will be able to use the legislation against trafficking in human beings if we do not detect trafficking in human beings? There's no rhyme and reason in it. If Helene Petersson wants us to prevent human trafficking, she should also want us to detect the smuggling of human beings. It's gonna be a little hard to stop it otherwise, isn't it?
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-201	Mr President, I would like to As I said earlier, customs and police are doing border checks. We also have cross-border control, particularly through cooperation within Europe. This cooperation often leads to the discovery of this. The technical solutions that Kent Ekeroth wants to see are not something I advocate.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-203	Mr President, I would like to I support the committee's proposal. I am the first to regret that we are forced to debate and decide on this proposal today. The Green Party will always stand up for an open and humane refugee policy. But there is a reality that I hear about when I listen to the municipalities and that I see when I take part of MSB's account of the situation. There is one reality that is that Sweden has set up and received a lot of refugees. So many have chosen Sweden as a haven that the openness advocated by the Green Party cannot be maintained for a period to come. I was Mayor of Södertälje during the Iraq War. We received more refugees in Södertälje than the entire United States did, and we did what we could to give them a good reception. We appealed to all municipalities in Sweden to take their share of the burden. I am pleased that there is now legislation in this area. That's what we appealed for back then. We ran campaigns. Södertälje staffs Sweden, we said in Almedalen. We worked hard for this. I can compare this with how Sweden is now appealing, working and working hard to ensure that the whole of Europe takes on its responsibilities. Last week, I listened to an element at Ekott. The UN High Commissioner for Refugees, António Guterres, visited Helsinki and said: The Swedish asylum system is one of the best in the world. It is important that this does not go away. That is why the whole of Europe must shoulder its responsibilities. It is not the austerity we are discussing in Sweden that upsets António Guterres. He calls it understandable reactions to the situation. What upsets him is that the rest of the EU does not accept its responsibilities. Germany has the same discussion as us. If we are to be able to give people on the run a dignified reception, the whole of Europe must shoulder its responsibilities and show that we stand up for a humane and transparent refugee policy. That is why we are discussing this in this House. The experience we did in Södertälje we share with many municipalities around the country. Schools accept new classes, and social security officers find it difficult to catch up with and make lex Maria notifications. I must respect this reality. It calls for extraordinary measures, but not for ever. This is it. It's not like Kent Ekeroth said it should have been done two years ago. Then there was no crisis. This is where we need extraordinary measures to build up our reception. The Green Party strives to build capacity, because, as Helene Petersson said, we need more people in Sweden to build our prosperity and our welfare society. They are not the only ones who need sanctuary; we need them too. It's a mutual relationship. It is important that we take the measures now proposed to safeguard the right of asylum in the future, to extend it and to return to a more open society. There have been criticisms of the consultation procedure and various details. I can agree that it has not been completely perfect. On some points, the government has listened to the consultation bodies and amended its proposal. I assume that this will be taken into account as far as possible when drawing up the detailed rules. This applies, for example, to what the Christian Democrats point out when it comes to children who do not have ID documents but where the parents have ID documents. It is a reasonable proposal that must be taken care of. This also applies to fines and so on. The fact that we are going to take these changes in Parliament every time will not work; it is about appropriations and that the government must be able to move forward because we have an exceptional situation. Then you have to look at what we can do today. We can adopt these laws today so that we know what applies and leave it to the government to work on this so that we also know that we can deal with the situation. It is about what Sweden is doing today to cope with a situation in which the EU has failed miserably. I can only hope that this reality will change during this time. I would be the first to rejoice that we would not need these measures. They're supposed to be temporary. I hope that we can see a Europe that jointly takes responsibility for the refugee crisis that exists.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-220	Mr President, I would like to Mats Pertoft is not only a former municipal councillor in Södertälje; he is also a representative of one of the governing parties. It is in this role of him that I would like to ask Mats Pertoft a few questions about this proposal. With regard to the validity of the law, the Government proposes three years. Mats Pertoft says it is important that the law is limited. I do not think that three years is a limited time in the sense that it is a short period. Three years is a long period. In addition, the bill that I also read from, Mr President, states that the situation will change for the better within a not too long time. It is a very vague description of the spirit and ambition of the bill under the heading that the law should be limited in time. Liberals have tried to be constructive. It is we who have tabled the proposal that it should be in six months. It is we who have put forward the proposal to review the law every 30 days or every month. It is we who have said that we should not just send this off to some authority, but that it is the government that should decide on these extraordinary efforts. But I hear that both MP and S want to give so-called carte blanche to the government. Don't cave into the details, I hear. Another detail is the families with children. We have also called in the report and in the Committee on Justice, where Mats Pertoft now sits, for families with children to be exempted from the law as well. I want to know, Mr President, what Mats Pertoft thinks. He was shocked when the government presented the proposals just over two weeks ago, and now I want to know what he thinks about the suggestion that families with children are not excluded.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-225	Mr President, I would like to I can answer Roger Haddad's questions as best I can. We all agree that the law should be limited in time. However, I wonder about one thing when I listen to the various representatives from L, KD and M in particular. You all say that after six months the government will return to Parliament with a new proposal for a law. Then I wonder how long it will be valid. Is there also a consensus on the matter? That would be interesting to know. I think it's wiser to know that the law will apply for a maximum of three years. You should tune it off after two years, and there should be built-in breaks where you look over how it all works. It is important for the Green Party that the law will not apply indefinitely, but I think six months would be too short. As far as families with children are concerned, I certainly assume that this is regulated in the regulation. I share the view that families with children who travel together, where the children may not have valid ID documents but where the parents have it, should be released.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-228	Mr President, I would like to We have taken a position on this proposal. It is this proposal that the government has just put forward, and that the Law Council has even rejected in its entirety. Let us start from the current proposal! We have insisted that we take on board the criticism. Let us introduce the law for six months, and let the government process the views of the Administrative Court of Appeal, the Legislative Council and other bodies. Then you will have to come back to the House this summer or in the autumn with another, better proposal. We are not in favour of what the Swedish Democrats are proposing: a permanent law on ID controls. We are opposed to that. That is why we are proposing a shorter period of time, and you have unfortunately called for rejection in the Committee on Legal Affairs, Mr Mats Pertoft. We want families with children to be exempted by law. Then Mats Pertoft says that he assumes that it is regulated in another document, namely a regulation. Will there be a demand from the Green Party?
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-231	Mr President, I would like to I am not making demands here, but I am saying that I assume that this is taken into account in the government when drafting the regulation. That's as far as I can go today. I can also say that it is my personal opinion that this should happen. With regard to the validity of the law, however, I would like to know how L, KD and M think about the continued handling. Is there a consensus on your side as to how long a future law, which would apply after the six months you propose, would apply? It would be interesting to know for the future debate.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-233	Mr President, I would like to I had made a long list of questions that I wanted to ask Mats Pertoft, but there will be even more questions when you hear the line shift. Mats Pertoft is part of the government constellation. The Green Party is part of the government. You can't have one personal opinion here and bring another when you're in government. That doesn't make any sense. It is as far from political responsibility and leadership as you can ever get. You reason in a special way. Mats Pertoft wants us to vote in favour of the Government's proposal and hope for luck. He hopes that the government in regulations does things that he clearly thinks are good when it comes to the Christian Democrats' exceptions, the Liberals' exceptions and a lot of other things. I don't understand how it works, and I'm happy to let Mats Pertoft reflect on that to the best of his ability. I particularly remember a statement in the election campaign. It says: We will never support a government that makes it harder to come to Sweden. Mats Pertoft! With the proposals that you now want to introduce – will it be easier or more difficult to get to Sweden?
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-238	Mr President, I would like to I want to be honest and say: it will be more difficult to get to Sweden during the time we use the visa. We want to safeguard the long-term right to asylum. As I described in my speech, this is about taking responsibility in the long term for Sweden to be an open country in the long term. It is about seeing what it looks like in municipalities around the country and respecting their work. I have to say that I personally think it sounds nice with the Center's proposal to solve the housing problems, for example, by ensuring that all incoming refugees themselves arrange housing. At the same time, I live in a city where this has happened for like 15 years, and where we have incredible problems on the housing front. That is the effect of such a proposal; it is friends, families, and others who take a beating. It's the kids who take a beating. This is not a worthy reception. I mentioned the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, Guterres. He expressed the greatest understanding of the measures we are now discussing because he sees that the rest of the European Union is not living up to this. In order to safeguard this, we must move on. We are doing this temporarily to rebuild capacity and to safeguard the future.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-241	Mr President, I would like to The work that Södertälje Municipality has done is in many respects admirable. But what if someone, when the situation in Södertälje was at its worst, had put forward the same argument against Mats Pertoft as Mats Pertoft now and said: We must close Södertälje, because we cannot receive more. Because others don't accept their responsibilities, neither should we. Isn't that the same thing? Has Mats Pertoft changed his mind about this? The question I put to Helene Petersson in Stockaryd about the risk of a domino effect I would also like to put to Mats Pertoft. Although I did not receive a super-clear answer to that question, it nevertheless seems to me that this is a serious and tangible risk. Mr President, Mats Pertoft says that these should be temporary measures. But now that we are initiating a process that will allow more European countries to follow, it does not really matter what we do in Sweden then. We cannot reverse that effect, because we cannot afford the legislation of other countries. Is it not an extremely serious risk that the right to asylum will disappear in practice?
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-246	Mr President, I would like to I appreciate this question from Johan Hedin very much, because it touches the heart of the matter. It is about how this will work within the EU context. The problem is that most countries in the EU have already closed their borders. It is Sweden and Germany that are still standing up for this, and the question is how long you can stand up when the situation escalates. That is why this bill is on Parliament's table. We must take this responsibility to safeguard the possibility of better functioning in the future. That is why it is also a question of saying that these should be special measures in the event of serious danger. It's supposed to be temporary. I hope we can get past the hump as soon as possible, but I can't say, unfortunately, that it's a domino effect, because there are only two blocks that are still standing upright. Most countries have already closed their borders. I deeply regret this, and I am convinced that we share the view that we want to influence other countries to open up borders as soon as possible.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-249	Mr President, I would like to I have great respect for the Södertälje problem, but that is not what we are discussing here today. What we are discussing is a proposal from the government to authorise the government to take far-reaching decisions that primarily concern a whole region but which also generally in Sweden can cause major problems. It's not completely perfect," says Mats Pertoft, and it's probably one of today's major understatements. The criticism has been massive. I would like to know how the Green Party views the costs for the region and Sweden and the costs for transporters that it will mean meeting the requirements that may be imposed. I would also like to know how you view the practical problems that will result from a decision, and I would like to know whether the Green Party believes that we now have a serious danger. When does it occur here that the government should decide on these measures? Is the situation right now such that you need to have a total stop? And how do you see that the supervision of what will occur will work? When we met the police in the Committee on Justice, it was pointed out that it is a major responsibility that is placed on the carriers and that it can be difficult to handle. The necessity of sending out police to keep order was foreseen in addition to the general supervision of the police. How does the Green Party view these practical issues? And why have you not been able to look at the views we have had? Then, unfortunately, you have misunderstood this with the 30-day rule, Mats Pertoft. It is not the Riksdag that has to make decisions, in our opinion, but it is the government that, for the sake of quality, sometimes has to reconsider its decision to ensure that not only does this very intrusive activity go on unnecessarily. Otherwise, there's a risk of it, if this is going to last for six months.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-255	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the questions, Beatrice Ask! With regard to transporter liability and their costs, I have listened carefully and was also present at the hearing of the Transport Committee. I really took on board the serious problems described by the various actors. There is, of course, a lot of work to be done to find practical solutions and also to solve the costs and charges of different carriers. It is in the practical nature of this issue that solutions must be found. I want to give that authority to the government that they can find them and that it can be placed in the regulation. As far as the issue of when there is a serious danger is concerned, according to the information I have received from, for example, the Swedish Civil Protection Agency, today it is a critical situation. I do not want to say that it is chaos and Sweden is going down, as some seem to say, but we must act and ensure that we can guarantee the service and the level that we have set to secure this and give the municipalities and authorities the legal instruments and the opportunity to rectify it. I think I answered all the questions.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-259	Mr President, I would like to If I am to interpret this correctly, then if we have serious problems in some municipalities, which we do have, we can decide on ID checks in general with huge costs and major problems as a result. Would it not have been reasonable to have a reasoning and some kind of pre-work to describe the situation instead of immediately letting the government, and it could be another government as well, make decisions without having a framework for what it should actually look like? You're on the committee yourself, Mats Pertoft. We are forced to reserve our reservations in order to get a report back in Parliament on how things have gone and what the consequences of this legislation have been, which everyone criticises. Isn't that very serious considering that even you can't describe how and when to introduce this? It's been quick, and it was necessary, but it's been sloppy. Then it is normal, I think, to make temporary legislation which can then be improved and decided upon. Basically, I believe that depending on how the changes are made, it may be that we should have legislation that will apply over time. But it can also be a temporary law. We are in complete agreement, I dare say, within the alliance parties on what legislation should look like when it is of quality. We also agree on what a normal train order should be like when developing legislation that gives such powers to the government. Now you let Parliament stand by and just see how costs and problems are growing.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-263	Mr President, I would like to As I said before, I can readily admit that there have been shortcomings in the handling. I think that question is now reasonably answered. However, I still wonder how M, L and KD think about the continuation of legislation. I understand that you want the government to return to Parliament after six months. I don't understand what's going on after that time. Now Beatrice Ask says that one can imagine legislation that applies over time. We from the Green Party think it is important that this is a limited-term legislation that applies for three years and that after two years a review is carried out and that we look at how to proceed. We do not think we should have legislation that applies anymore.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-266	Mr President, I would like to It honors you that you admit that there are shortcomings in handling, Mats Pertoft. I think you put it like everything hasn't been perfect. I would also like to emphasise that. The question in the previous change of line was about what happens after the six months when we, the Christian Democrats, the Liberals and the Moderates, propose that the law should expire. We can't answer that today. We believe that the government should have an authorisation for six months, given the shortcomings in the preparation. Then you would have time to evaluate, see what the consequences are and clarify the ambiguities. However, the House has not asked for the government to come back. It will be up to the government to return to Parliament, if you see that the need exists, after six months and present a new proposal for legislation. On the issues of children, the penalties, where Mats Pertoft admits that there are ambiguities, I would like to show the reservation. I tore it out of the report and now show it to the Members of this House. The reservation is about children who come in the company of parents and is partly based on the motion submitted by the Christian Democrats. We stress that children without ID documents who come in company with parents who have ID documents should be exempted from ID checks. We believe and write in the reservation that the government should be responsible for issuing detailed rules on this. ..................................................... So we are not putting forward a sharp bill. It is in the regulations, the preparatory work and the regulation of the government's decision that we really need to emphasise this and resolve this uncertainty. Therefore, we urge the Riksdag to announce it to the Government. I wonder whether Mats Pertoft intends to vote for the Christian Democrats' reservation in paragraph 8, given what he has put forward earlier in this House.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-272	Mr President, I would like to I agree with the Christian Democrats that this should be done. That is why I have said several times – I am happy to repeat it – that I assume that the government takes that particular point into account in its regulations. We are therefore in agreement on this point. The Green Party supports the opposition and the report of the Committee on Justice as a whole and believes that we must leave it to the government to move forward with these detailed issues. I'd be happy to take on the task of working for the issue itself.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-274	Mr President, I would like to You can have great confidence in the government or not. But here the government is presenting a proposal to the Riksdag, which will be valid for three years. That's a long time. It is therefore important that uncertainties are clarified if the Riksdag is to give the Government those powers. That is why we have pointed out the ambiguities we see in the Government's proposal. We want answers to them, but we haven't got them. That is why we will abstain from paragraph 1 and follow up on our reservations. Mats Pertoft began his speech by saying that he has seen the reality, which I welcome. In so doing, he also acknowledged that there were shortcomings in the preparation. That is what the Moderates, Liberals and Christian Democrats are aiming for. The government should take into account the strong criticism that has emerged and should therefore have closer reconciliations and take new decisions on the ID controls every month. And the legislation should apply for a maximum of six months. There are several who have asked Mats Pertoft in the replicas why it is needed in this situation as long as three years. Why does the Green Party not take the Moderate, Liberal and Christian Democrats line on temporary legislation? Then one could take the criticism that has come seriously while at the same time there is the possibility of introducing ID controls to meet the reality that Mats Pertoft has also described.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-277	Mr President, I would like to I have answered that question a number of times now, Andreas Carlson. I also understand that it is rather uncertain how your parties intend to continue after the six months. There are quite big things that will be required for the system to work – investments and reconstructions. I think six months would be a short time to implement all those pieces. We heard from the Transport Committee about reconstructions on Kastrup, for example, and other things. So they're big pieces. Six months would be too short to achieve this if it is to be effective. I personally hope – as does the Green Party – that these laws do not have to be in force for too long. The situation has shown us that we need them. But we hope that this situation will improve as soon as possible.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-280	Mr President, I would like to We find ourselves in an unusual situation, you might say. It's a difficult situation. Of course, it is most difficult for those who are forced to flee from war spots, oppression and persecution. The best thing would be for people to escape at all, if the war in Syria were to end quickly, if governments that are today persecuting their citizens instead began to act in a different way. The next best thing would be for all countries that have the opportunity to take joint and several responsibility for the situation. And the third best option would be that we here in Sweden had inexhaustible resources to receive all those who flee. None of those options are in hand today. We are in a situation where Sweden has taken more responsibility for the refugee situation than any other Western country. In recent years, since the outbreak of the war in Syria, we have received about 100,000 people from Syria. If the rest of the EU had taken the same responsibility, about 5 million Syrians would have been protected in Europe. In the autumn we have had a situation where so many people have come to our country that we can no longer guarantee a reception that we can stand for. Anyone who opposes this proposal today should also reasonably be able to answer the following questions: for a long time, will a refugee who comes here have to wait for accommodation? How many will sleep in the open sky? How long should you reasonably wait for a health check, for a position in school or for a good man? These are the systems that are being challenged in Sweden today. It's not that we don't have room for more people in Sweden. It is definitely not that Sweden as a nation is threatened or that we need to stop people of different backgrounds, culture or other religion from coming here. But it is the case that the systems we have for reception and welfare in Sweden are so hard-pressed that we as the government see a need to immediately make quite far-reaching decisions. We know, of course, that the proposals we are making now will have consequences – for commuters in the Öresund region and for companies that will find it difficult to be sure that the employees will be on time. It will, of course, have consequences for people who, instead of seeking asylum in Sweden, are allowed to do so in Denmark. In this context, it may be worth pointing out that Sweden, even with the lower level of reception of refugees and asylum seekers that we have today – around 3 000 people per week – receives in two months as many as Denmark forecasts to receive for a full year. We are aware of the problems that will arise. The government's assessment is that the consequences of not acting forcefully now would be even worse. We are faced with a typical and clear conflict of interest. The government then chooses to act forcefully in order to ensure a good reception in the long term, a good start to the new life in Sweden and that our social systems continue to be able to function as we have the right to expect. Against this background, I think it is a declaration of strength that there is today in this House – although one cannot believe it when listening to the debate – broad support for the proposals that the government is now making. Various details have been discussed here, including the issue of child identification. There have been underhand contacts between the parties before the government presented its proposal. There has never been a time during which there has been any demand for a shorter legislative period. Nor have there been any demands for changes in, for example, child identification control. On the other hand, the government has stated in those talks that children will not be covered if they travel with a parent who can legitimise themselves. All parties in this House know that this has been expressed. It is important that we take responsibility for what we are responsible for in this situation. It is basically Swedish welfare and Swedish future, but we must also take responsibility for those in the country that we are committed to creating a good life for. This is not a fun decision to make, I think everyone is aware of that. But we and those who sit in the Swedish Parliament have not been given the responsibility to lead Sweden because it is fun, but because people expect us to make the necessary decisions for the good of Sweden. Although it now sounds like there is no broad consensus on these proposals, I hope that we can still go out and meet both carriers, commuters and others and say that, of course, we will not allow these measures to last longer than necessary. The fact that it is possible to decide six months at a time does not in any way mean that the government is obliged to keep the rules for six months, if the need no longer exists. Of course, the government will decide on the necessary regulations. The authorities involved will be able to take decisions on regulations. They will, of course, be repealed at the moment when it is judged that they are no longer necessary. These are far-reaching decisions that restrict people's ability to move across the border. Of course, the government has no ambition to make it more difficult than necessary. At this stage, however, it is only a game for the galleries to pretend that they do not support the proposal when there is a broad parliamentary consensus.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-296	Mr President, I would like to I'd like to ask the Minister for Infrastructure a few questions. To begin with, welfare in Sweden is very dependent on the intensive development of the Skåne region, among others. There, mobility and contacts across the border with Denmark are extremely important. There are many thousands of commuters every day that contribute to the growth and well-being of the entire region. That is why the bridge was once built. We realized that there was a great deal for our society to win. On the basis of the comments we have received from the transporters and concerning the infrastructure minister's area, I would like to ask: How does the government envisage that it should be done in practical terms when introducing ID checks on the trains between Sweden and Denmark? Travel time is 20 minutes, and then you cannot make checks on the trains, but it must be done in a different way. Then I wonder about the question: what does the government think is a reasonable delay for those commuters who are going to work or pick up kindergartens? According to the government, how long is the delay to be expected when this is introduced? I also wonder: How will the police in Skåne cope with supervision and the inconveniences and problems that can arise in queue formations and other matters in these contexts?
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-300	Mr President, I would like to The Öresund region is a very important region for Sweden and for Sweden's growth. The cross-border labour market is an extremely positive development that has contributed to well-being in both Sweden and Denmark and to broadening the labour market region. The government, of course, is very positive about this. The problem is that it is not in any other place where this amount of people go to Sweden, but it is precisely in this region that the problem arises. This means that this is where action should be taken. With regard to the concrete design of how these checks are to be carried out, carriers must be able to participate and design it properly. It is not the same to carry out ID checks on, for example, a ferry where you go on and show your ticket compared to commuter train traffic. How this is to be put into practice will be the responsibility of carriers. Then there will also be opportunities for both the police and the Swedish Transport Agency to issue regulations to specify more clearly what requirements are placed on the control of identity documents. I want to ask a question back to Beatrice Ask. I understand that the Moderates agree with the government that this legislation and these measures are necessary. In this discussion, it doesn't sound like that at all. What is the Moderate attitude?
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-305	Mr President, I would like to In the Riksdag, Members of Parliament ask questions to the Government. You have made a proposal. Our view is very clear, and I explained it very carefully before the Government had the opportunity to come to the House. So there's no problem with that. There are practical problems here. That is one of the reasons why I am very annoyed that Parliament has not been given access to the regulations that apparently there is at least a draft and which the carriers describe. Controls on trains will be very difficult to handle, for example on Kastrup and in some other places. There are a number of practical problems that I think the Minister for Infrastructure is responsible for ensuring that it works. According to the reports we receive from companies, one can expect up to an hour's delay for each trip. There are enormous costs involved in this. There is, of course, a responsibility here. Then I find it strange that the government is not even interested in approving the proposal to come back to Parliament to explain how the effects have been. In fact, it is the government that must take responsibility for that. The police have pointed out a number of problems with supervision. It is feared that bus drivers and others will have trouble checking the trains or buses. This imposes a further burden on the police to deal with the matter. That should be of reasonable concern to the government. There are reasons for asking these questions, but it is the government that wants this mandate and, according to press conferences, is prepared to take decisions more or less immediately. Then you must have thought about how this is to be done in practical terms. There are a lot of people out there who are very concerned and worried.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-312	Mr President, I would like to As I said in my speech, we are aware that this represents inconvenience. We are aware of the consequences for commuting times, and there may also be delays. This is not something we are doing because we believe it is positive for commuters and carriers. This is a mandate requested by the government in order to maintain security and order in Sweden. I understand that there is agreement on this from most parties in this House. With regard to practical implementation, it is of course extremely important for carriers to have a far-reaching influence on the way in which ID checks are to be carried out and the methods used. It is also important to develop practices in consultation with, for example, the Police Authority, which will of course also have a responsibility in this context. In police operations it is always difficult and challenging to allocate resources in the right way. But that is something that the Police Authority does every day and at some point to deal with the situations that arise and to ensure that the resources needed are in the right place. I have great confidence in the way the police deal with this situation as well. As far as carriers are concerned, we have seen in the contacts between the Ministry of Industry and the carriers that there is concern, but there is also a great deal of understanding that the government is choosing to move forward with this proposal. You can see what it actually looks like in this region. That doesn't mean you think it should be fun to do this. However, I see a great deal of responsibility from the transporters that we really appreciate at this point in time.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-317	Mr President, I would like to I have a few questions. The starting point is the massive criticism that has come about in terms of handling. We know that this flow of refugees has been going on, and it has been working in different ways on this for quite a long time. Like, uh... sorry. Yet the government comes with some sort of panic attack. I feel this is a panic attack. You haven't looked through it in any way. In principle, in a week's time, legislation is being pushed through that creates enormous problems. Transporter responsibility, including the sanctions that will be imposed in this legislation, will be a huge problem. The referrals I have spoken to say that it will never work. They're saying from the beginning, this isn't going to work. How are we supposed to have ID checks if we sometimes don't even have time to check the tickets? So you create a bigger problem than what you solve. My questions are about the basic attitude. Have we not looked at the solutions that exist? Today, there is quite broad support among the Swedish people to really solve the problem of refugees and not to shut them out. Many organisations and individuals work to do this in a good way. With the signals that come out of this legislation, it will be exactly the opposite. We are sending out signals that it is okay to promote xenophobia, racism and such things that pop up in this. We stop these refugees, who really need help. There was someone here who had a parable: If we have a semi-mature delivery and close the door for those who are going in, is that acceptable? It's not that. These people need help, and we can make sure they get it. You can fix a roof over your head. There are a number of solutions that are picked up here and that should be taken care of and realized by the government. Why not take the alternatives instead of pushing through this panic legislation?
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-324	Mr President, I would like to With regard to practical implementation, I would like to emphasise once again that, after the regulation has come into force, carriers will have far-reaching opportunities to design this as reasonably as possible. The same goes for sanctions, of course – they will be designed in a way that is not unreasonable. The Government's ambition is, of course, that the inconvenience caused by these decisions should be as small as possible. Nevertheless, I understand that there is an understanding among carriers of why the government is obliged to make these decisions and make these proposals. I also have great confidence that practical solutions will be found that work. Of course, we will also follow up on how the implementation of the legislation and regulations works in practice. It is easy to say that this gives rise to xenophobia and racism. But the question is how to solve not only this week's residents or good men for the unaccompanied children who already exist in the country, but also that the people who come next week and the week after and in January, February, March, April and May can be offered proper housing, health surveys, schooling, good men and a proper legal asylum examination. How is that to happen, according to the Left Party?
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-327	Mr President, I would like to I note that the Government avoids the burning question: the people who are excluded, what happens to them? That is where the problem lies. The transporters have what I have read had strong objections to this because they will see that there will be a pressure that they cannot handle. We will have a chaotic situation in which people are treated arbitrarily depending on how they have come to our borders, especially in the Sound. It is a shortcoming for the government that it has not been prepared to take other measures that could actually be much more effective. There are a lot of proposals from civil society on how we solve this so that people will at least get a roof over their heads and some place to be. We don't solve all the problems at once, but we have to work on the solutions so we don't shut people out. It's not like the person standing outside the delivery door can take care of himself. You have to get help in some way. With the domino effect we see here, these refugees will be met. They're not gonna get help anywhere. Then we have definitely failed to comply with the right of asylum. This creates problems in Sweden, not least for the Öresund region, which is much more expensive. It is a question of finding a core in which we are fellow human beings, of solidarity and of representing what we have said. In September, the Prime Minister stood and said: There are no borders. All of a sudden in a week, it's bang, boom, stop! It is extremely strange and extremely badly handled, as all the referral bodies have said. This is a panic attack. It is not appropriate for a Swedish government to act in panic. I think it would have been much more prepared to find alternative solutions and to create a broad parliamentary basis for this in Parliament.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-335	Mr President, I would like to When you listen to the debate, you can sometimes get the impression that we have not really followed the same reality. Last summer, there were those who felt that we received far too many. In fact, there were those who felt that we received far too many last year and the previous year and the previous year too. There are those who always think that Sweden receives far too many refugees, who fundamentally oppose multicultural society and who believe that immigration is fundamentally problematic and threatening. Government parties do not think so. They'll never think so and don't think so now. Not to say that there is an absolute limit to how many we should receive and establish it beforehand is an expression of our standing up for a humane and solidarity-based refugee policy. However, when our authorities and municipalities sound the alarm that they are no longer capable of receiving at the level that we should reasonably be able to offer, then the government must act. That's why we're sitting here: to rule the kingdom. Then it is still the case that Sweden has received many more than any other Western country, especially in relation to our population. I find it very difficult to understand why criticism is now directed at the Western government that has taken the greatest responsibility. What if, instead, we jointly addressed this criticism to all those EU countries that have not received refugees, who have not been in solidarity in this situation? Please help us in the government to press for the EU to take joint responsibility for the situation we have!
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-341	Mr President, I would like to The Government says that carriers should be involved in the design of sanctions. How will transporters be involved, and how will the government monitor the negative effects of this legislation and the introduction of ID controls? One of the ambiguities I highlighted in my speech is the imposition of sanctions. They can hit smaller carriers, for example, which we have a reservation about. I therefore welcome the fact that the Government of this House is saying that transporters will be involved. My question is: 'in what way, and in what way, will the effects be limited?
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-344	Mr President, I would like to Transporters will have a far-reaching influence on the practical implementation of the ID checks. That's what I said. However, it is not, of course, the case that carriers will be given the opportunity to have influence over the penalties themselves. There, it is the authorities and ultimately the government that make decisions through regulations on how and at what level fines are to be imposed. In this work, we will of course find a balance between, on the one hand, having compliance with the legislation we now have in place and with the government regulations in this area and, on the other hand, reasonableness. This must, of course, be proportionate to the requirements we impose on carriers and how severe the penalties should be. This work is under way in the Government Office, and the regulations will be ready shortly. But I think it is important to point out that it is precisely in the design of how the practical implementation is to be carried out that the carriers will be involved. We will of course follow it up through contacts with not least municipalities and regions in the Öresund region but also with transporters. We're in constant contact. It is also the case that the Finnish Transport Administration and the Swedish Transport Agency, the authorities responsible, are currently preparing for practical solutions that will make implementation as smooth as possible, with the condition that it needs to be implemented.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-349	Mr President, I would like to On the initiative of the Christian Democrats, among other things, we in the Committee on Justice have been visited by the police, who have explained the many ambiguities that exist in the enforcement of legislation. A concrete question that can be a consequence of the decision taken today to introduce ID checks could be that, to take an example, you stop a bus. The bus driver says they have established a list and checked all people's ID documents. Passengers leave the bus and the police check: What about the IDs? Then passengers may not have IDs when getting off the bus. The police raise the question: How to call the bus driver or the company to account? What opportunities are there to investigate if the ID documents are still on the bus, are in the pocket, are in the trash or are thrown through the window? These are problems that we have identified in the Committee on Justice. We also have a reservation on this from the Christian Democrats, the Moderates and the Liberals. This is something that, of course, lies on the government to point out in the regulations. Since it is a far-reaching decision to be taken here in the Riksdag today, it is very appropriate that the government responds to this and other questions that have been asked and that are made clear not to us in the first place, but to those who are supposed to ensure that the law is complied with. What is the message from the Government to the Police Authority to ensure compliance with the legislation?
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-354	Mr President, I would like to I imagine that the work as a policeman or, for that matter, a customs officer or a job in many other positions in our society in both the private and public sectors sometimes means making difficult decisions where it is not absolutely clear in advance what is right or wrong. I am absolutely convinced that the Swedish police have both the knowledge and the competence to handle this kind of difficult balance, just as they do in many other cases that they handle on a daily basis. I do not intend to prescribe exactly how the police should act in a particular situation. Different situations will arise, just as different situations arise in a variety of other parts of their professional practice where they are forced to make difficult decisions at the moment. I have great confidence in the competence of the Swedish police in this regard. It will also be possible to make regulations which impose certain requirements on carriers and specify the exact requirements to be met in order for them to be considered as having checked identity documents. It is the authorities who, in the next step, give this type of regulation. The government takes responsibility for the fact that we have a regulation in place that makes us give responsibility to the carriers. Then you need to get a precise design. It is not reasonable and appropriate that it should be the government that prescribes it in detail.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-358	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to thank the Committee on Justice for the swift and benevolent treatment of the proposal. We have now heard the discussion this morning. After all, it is gratifying to note that there is support for the measures that we now need to take in order to be able to cope with an emergency refugee situation. It is a strength for Parliament and a strength for Sweden that we can do so in such a difficult situation as we are in. I interpret the discussion that we have had this morning as a broad cross-block support for carrying out ID checks and for the government to be authorised. What we have talked about above all is how long the law will work and also different details. But I understand that there is support on the substance for us to get the authorisation. It is important that it exists and that we can get the authorisation. We're in a difficult position. During this year, more than 150 000 people have applied for asylum in Sweden. By the end of the year, we will have passed 160 000. It is not only the highest number of asylum seekers in modern times. It is twice as high as the last peak for a single year at 80 000. It was during this autumn that it escalated very strongly. In two months, more than 80 000 asylum seekers arrived in Sweden. Some weeks came about 10,000 a week. In addition, we have seen that a significant proportion of asylum seekers have been unaccompanied minors, to date more than 30 000 unaccompanied minors. When it came to the unaccompanied children, we had a period during the autumn when it came up to 100 school classes a week. Sweden as a country has made a heroic effort during this autumn. All the fantastic employees of the Finnish Immigration Service, the municipal staff, the police and tens of thousands of volunteers, all who have worked and worked day after day to help in the reception deserve our unreserved recognition for what they have done in the autumn. During this year, Sweden has taken greater responsibility than any other country in Europe. But not only that. During this year, we have taken more responsibility than our country has ever done in modern history. We have been able to provide protection and security for tens of thousands of men, women and children who have had to leave everything in their home country for an uncertain future in another country. That Sweden has done this we shall be extremely proud of. Everyone knows the background. We have a global refugee crisis. Over 60 million people in the world are on the run because of the hard of conflict and wars in, for example, Syria, Iraq, Afghanistan and Somalia or from the repression in Eritrea. The tragedy is that Europe as a continent would have been able to solve this task without any major problems if only the will had existed. If there had been a genuine interest in meeting this challenge as a Union and not as individual Member States, we would have been able to share responsibility in a spirit of solidarity. Europe could do it. But not if the whole responsibility falls on just one, two or three countries. Then it won't work. We have therefore made great efforts during the year to achieve joint responsibility in Europe and a more even distribution. Sweden is one of the countries that has pushed this hardest in the EU. I personally have put quite a lot of time and effort into this, after all, not without a certain success. For example, we managed to get a decision on the relocation of 160 000 refugees from Greece and Italy to the other Member States despite opposition from some quarters. It was, of course, a good European decision. But it did not solve the emergency situation for Sweden when we had the largest number of asylum seekers ever. There were over 10,000 a week, and up to 100 school classes a week. Sweden is and remains a fantastic country. We can take a big responsibility. But we can't do everything, and we can't do it alone. There is a limit for us too. During the autumn it became increasingly clear that our systems were being pushed to the breaking point. For a limited period, housing can be developed for thousands of people a week, but we cannot do so in the long run. For a limited period of time you can find placements and school places for thousands of unaccompanied children a week, but we cannot do so in the long run. We have gradually expanded our reception capacity during the autumn. We mobilized all our agencies and companies to find accommodation. We took stock of the municipal evacuation sites in order to be able to use them. We have had to put people in gymnasiums, in old offices, in old schools and now even in tents. The Finnish Immigration Service and the municipalities have provided an enormous logistical task during the autumn. We have expanded the capacity for our reception in a way that Sweden has never done before. The Finnish Immigration Service is now responsible for housing for 100,000 people. That's the highest number ever. But in the end we could see that even that would not be enough. Finally, we had to declare that we could no longer guarantee shelter for those who come here. At the same time, we received more and more reports on how the public sector was facing increasing difficulties in coping with the situation. It's not just about accommodation. It's about the state of social services. It's about the state of schools in many places. The Swedish Civil Contingencies Agency, MSB, has been reporting throughout the autumn about how much strain the situation is for many operations. On this basis, the government drew two conclusions: Firstly, we will be able to cope with the 160 000 people who will be coming this year. Secondly, we will not be able to do so if there are still so many asylum seekers, if the number remains at the level we have seen in the autumn. Those who have now arrived will be clear if we just go in with the right efforts. It is about making sure to build many more homes, to give municipalities the right tools but also more resources, to build more schools, to invest in education in Swedish from day one, to invest in rapid validation of education and grades, to create fast track into the labour market so that we can take advantage of all these people's skills and that all municipalities take responsibility, not only a few but all municipalities. All of that and much more are examples of action that we must make. It's a huge community-building effort. It is something that is really quite fun for a social democrat to get involved in, because that is what we are good at: building societies. If we do this, we can handle those who have come. We can do it, too, if the number that continues to arrive is at a reasonable level, but we cannot do it if it continues to be at a record level. Now we simply need to have a breathing room in the reception, so that we can concentrate on taking care of all these people who have come to Sweden and give them a good start in the new country. Therefore, the number coming to Sweden must be reduced. When a government is faced with such a situation, action must be taken. You can't run and hide. We must act even if it involves measures that we might have preferred to avoid. This is nothing that we do with any joy. But sometimes you have to do things you don't want to do, simply because you have to. We must now take control of the situation. What's the alternative? The coming spring must not look the same as the autumn that we have just gone through. Our asylum system cannot do that, and our welfare system cannot do it by the end of the day. It may not be primarily about money, even if we see how costs increase for both the state and the municipalities. From my point of view, it is perhaps even more about how to get trained social secretaries, teachers, health professionals and administrators at the Migration Agency. It is about having enough time to build schools, housing and infrastructure. That is what we will not be able to do if it continues to be at these levels. The identification checks that the Riksdag is about to decide on will mean that the number that comes to Sweden will decrease. On the contrary, many will be allowed to apply for asylum in another EU country. It is important to point out that the alternative for asylum seekers is not to return to war but to seek asylum in another EU country. This is a measure which will have an impact but which, at the same time, remains within the framework of EU law. We already have ID controls on the ferries between Germany and Sweden. Now we can also get it on our relations with Denmark. The Ministry of Industry worked this proposal out quickly, because the situation required it. And it's been referred to the law. I would like to make a brief comment on the Council's opinion, as it is used in the debate. The Council's objections relate in particular to the preparation of the matter. Then I would like to say that in certain situations it is necessary for a government to act quickly. There is a possibility of using short consultation periods, for example, in civil emergencies. This has been made clear by the Constitutional Committee, including in a report from 2010, when it looked at the management of the financial crisis by the then government. So that space is within the framework of our constitutions. I see that the Committee on Justice has come to the same conclusion. According to the committee's assessment, the government has adequately justified the urgency of current legislation – the situation that has arisen represents a civil crisis situation that needs to be addressed in some way so that the consequences in society do not become even more serious. Against this background, the preparation requirements of the government form may be deemed to be met. ..................................................... That's how the committee writes. I think it is a good thing to be clear on this issue. As regards the Council of Law Opinion, it has also been argued in the general debate that the Law Council would claim that this proposal would be contrary to the right of asylum. Actually, that's not true. The Law Council does not make such a claim. With regard to the right of asylum, as expressed in international law, it is important to be clear one thing: the right of asylum is a right to seek asylum in a safe country. However, it is not a right to choose which country to apply for asylum in. That is why we have the principle of the first country of asylum on which the Dublin Regulation is based. You do not have the right to move freely in the Schengen area as an asylum seeker, but you should, in principle, seek asylum in the first safe country to which you come. The fact that this does not work is due to the fact that Member States do not enforce the rules and carry out internal checks on aliens, as they are required to do. The Council of Law therefore does not state that this proposal is contrary to the right of asylum, but rather has two other objections in substance. One is that the Law Council is questioning whether the measure will have an effect. The second is that the Law Council is questioning whether it really is such a major crisis as the government claims. Both of these objections can be discussed, but they are not legal objections, but they are essentially about the assessment of the situation and of our welfare systems. I'm sure the ID controls will be effective. They had an effect on the ferries between Sweden and Germany. As regards the crisis situation, we as a government must lean on our expert authorities, such as the MSB and the Migration Agency, which have been very clear about the gravity of the situation. I see that the Committee on Justice shares that view. Finally, Mr President, I will say a few words about a few of the reservations and contacts with the opposition. We had many contacts with the Moderates, Christian Democrats and Liberals in the preparation of the bill and the legislative referral. We had two meetings. We had a number of telephone calls in the group that negotiated the migration agreement earlier this autumn. We got the go-ahead from all three of you, both before and after the Council's statement. Now at the end there has apparently been a discussion, among other things about how long the law will apply. It was not something that was expressed by your parties during the talks we had, which, incidentally, were conducted in a very constructive and good tone. We said then that we were going to suggest that the ID checks could be carried out at the longest during a period of six months. At the same time, the law would be temporary and only apply for three years. You had no objection to that at the time. You had plenty of time to anchor the proposal in your parties, and when it was done, you left the go-ahead. You left the go-ahead on Tuesday night, December 8th from your three parties. And on Wednesday morning, December 9, we decided on the bill. That is why I was surprised to hear at the end of last week that you had changed your mind. I see a reservation about, among other things, the validity of the law. And you intend to abstain from voting on paragraph 1. I think it is important that we can trust each other and that we can rely on the information given by different parties. That information should last longer than just a week. That's what I want to say in that part. The same applies to the question of accompanying children, which is raised in a reservation by the Liberals and Christian Democrats. That question was also raised in our discussions. I even think it was Andreas Carlson who asked the question. We said clearly on the part of the government: It goes without saying that children who come with their parents should not have to have ID documents. This is how it works today on the ferries between Sweden and Germany. You know very well about that, but you still write a reservation. You can't help but get the impression that you're playing the theater. I'm saying this because I don't think we should have to argue about things that we actually agree on. We've got enough trouble anyway. Let's try to solve them! Now lies before us a very big task to take care of all the people who have come to Sweden and to give them a good reception, so that they can quickly become part of our country and be involved in building up our common welfare. Let us now concentrate on it!
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-400	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for Migration for a good account of the challenges that exist in relation to both migration issues in general and the measures that have been taken. I also think it is a good thing to highlight the migration agreement that has been made, and I share the view that there was agreement on the direction. On the other hand, the versions vary as to what details were agreed. I would also like to say in person that it would probably have been an advantage if the Ministry of Justice had held the pen and produced the proposal that we now have at Parliament's table. Indeed, the Devil is in the details, and there is no doubt that there are shortcomings that could have been dealt with in a purely factual way much better. At least I would like to ask the Minister for Justice about some things that have come up in the debate. First of all, I share the view that there are situations in which legislation can be drawn up very quickly, but I would like to know whether the Minister for Justice considers that oral referrals are a reasonable preparation of serious legislation that will apply for several years. Secondly, I wonder why the Parliament has not been able to take note of the draft regulation which the Minister for Infrastructure is now saying is almost clear and which is really causing a lot of criticism to those concerned. Why have we not been able to take part in this in our documentation? Thirdly, I wonder why the government cannot discuss and has not had the will to discuss a shorter period of validity. In fact, we have had temporary legislation in the past to enable legislation to be improved in qualitative terms. That is what we are aiming for with our reservation.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-405	Mr President, I would like to Much of this we had been able to discuss when we met, which we did both before the Law Council referral and after the Law Council referral came. As I have said, you never raised this kind of objection, for example, when it comes to the validity of the law. You could have done it then. When you have to act quickly, as the government had to do here, you have to be able to rely on the news coming from the parties. On Tuesday evening, as I said, we received a go-ahead from Moderates, Liberals and Christian Democrats on this bill. We were available – both me and Ylva Johansson, who led those talks – to be able to answer such questions. Then we left the bill. What I'm saying is that you have to be able to trust a message from a party to last a little longer than a week. With regard to the question of how the preparation has been carried out, I know that this is a KU report. I think the KU should review the preparation and see if it was a satisfactory order. I see that, in its opinion, the Committee on Justice says that this has been dealt with satisfactorily in the light of the situation in which it was in, but I leave the question to the KU. It is important, I would say, that the government can act in various forms of crisis situations. We did, and we also tried to ensure that talks with the opposition were conducted in such a way that this would also be anchored in time. Why has the Riksdag not been given access to the regulation? The regulation that is now being worked on at the Ministry of Industry is not yet ready. I suppose that's an adequate answer to that question.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-410	Mr President, I would like to After all, former ministers claimed that it was almost finished, so it would have been possible to at least inform us of the main features of it without any problems. The versions of what was agreed and does not vary, but there are others who took part in the negotiations that could possibly come back to that. However, it is still the case that we examine the substance of the matter when the matter comes to the Committee on Justice and we saw shortcomings. In fact, we tried constructively to put forward views which are nevertheless essential for Parliament and the House to be able to make a qualitatively good decision. It doesn't change the fact that we're in the direction. I think it is perfectly reasonable for a government to be able to make decisions on this issue, but it is also really important that the legislation is clear, clear and reasonable in a way that I do not think is the case today. Another issue that emerged in a previous example that was discussed concerned the difficulties that come when checking the identity documents. The police have to supervise and deal with the whole thing. I wonder: will the government give the police additional powers to ensure compliance with decisions on identity checks?
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-414	Mr President, I would like to As far as practical implementation is concerned, we are, of course, constantly engaged in dialogue with the police to ensure that they are able to meet the commitments they have. Of course, we will have to do so when we decide on this. What I'm a little perplexed about is not only that the Moderates leave a message one week and another message the other week, but also the content of the criticism itself. This is temporary legislation, and now it is said that it only wants the law for six months. But exactly what in the law is what you want to change – in substance, Beatrice Ask? What's the matter you're against? I haven't actually seen anything like that. Then I can also say that I have heard the level of discussion here and that it almost sounds like you are against the proposal itself. You intend to abstain in the vote, as I understand. But if this proposal is so bad now, why do you not vote against it? Why don't you go on a rejection? I simply think that, if I am going to answer that question myself, you know that this must be done but that you may not really have the courage to stand up for it.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-417	Mr President, I would like to Let me remind you of the speech made by the Liberals. We pointed out the situation that Sweden is in and that we have advocated a model with elements of ID-control. However, we have put forward a motion – a motion – in the Committee on Justice, which the Social Democrats and the Green Party have completely rejected. I had a little bit of thought about the analysis linked to the period of validity, Mr President. The government may refer to all kinds of discussions, but I'm beginning to recognize the pattern. You're invited, you're given information, you're supposed to think, and then you walk away. Real negotiations in the true sense of the word, I would hardly say that this government has had. In fact, when you sit on the Committee on Justice, that is where the issue is decided and not anywhere else. Nevertheless, I hope the Minister will accept that. It was first in committee management that we had for the first time gathered everything together. It was the Transport Committee's information and the Justice Committee's information, and we had invited the police and the Swedish Civil Protection Agency on Friday before the adjustment. Nevertheless, I have to say that in its analysis, which is very much referred to by the government, MSB also believes that it is unfortunate that it can be interpreted as an exceptional state. When we receive this kind of presentation and speech, we must also be able to propose minor changes to this intervention proposal – for example, on the issue of a three-year period of validity. However, the Minister's party rejects this. Why?
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-421	Mr President, I would like to If we had joined in with the proposal that it would only apply for six months, which would mean that we would be allowed to return to Parliament every six months, we would also have pointed out what change we want to make – that is, what is not good about the law that applies – maybe we would have understood the argument. That is not the case, however. This is a mere law of authorisation, that is to say that it authorises the government to take the measures we write about in the bill – and not at the level of detail, because the details will then be regulated in the regulation. But you don't, Roger Haddad. Instead, I see this as a way of saying on your part that you have once left the go-ahead for this to be done, but then you cannot really stand for it all the way out. Yet you want to stand here and try to create the impression that you are really against. If you are opposed to the authorisation, you should have said that first of all when we were conducting the talks, and secondly, you may go on a rejection. However, I believe that it is the same as with the Moderates: you understand that this must be done, but you do not want to do it yourself because you do not have the courage to stand up for it. Is it that way, Roger Haddad?
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-424	Mr President, I would like to I represent the Liberals in the Committee on Justice and I have not been negotiating with the Minister. The first time we saw the proposal gathered, we had one day to wake up a so-called follow-up motion. In it we have put forward claims for a six-month law, review once a month and for the government to take decisions, not the authorities, further that the government should return with a better proposal taking into account the Law Council and other consultation bodies. We contacted colleagues in the government parties in the committee and said that we have these views and views and wondered if they would be prepared to talk with us. Then the answer was clear that they were not interested – lying proposals lie. Then it is our democratic duty to make a request as to how we would have liked to see the legislation. Since Morgan Johansson's comrades are calling for rejection, regardless of the discussion on families with children, we have put forward a request for clarification of the proposal. There too, Morgan Johansson's party is calling for rejection in the Committee on Justice. We have justified ourselves by saying that, in paragraph 1, we will abstain when the House eventually comes to a decision. I understand that the Minister would have liked us to buy the proposal straight off. But the proposal is radical, and the proposal resembles a state of emergency. Morgan Johansson cannot, as the government's representative, assume that we should buy everything straight off. That's not how it works.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-427	Mr President, I would like to But one must be able to assume that parties stand by their word and that things that they say do not only apply for a week. You said, of course, that the December agreement would last eight years. Now it didn't even last ten months. It's not a good pattern. Parties that give a message to the government that they are on a proposal must also be able to stand up for that message in the subsequent process. Unfortunately, this has not been the case. I don't want to bury myself in it anymore. I simply note that in the current issues, including identification checks on families with children, i.e. children arriving with their parents, you have received satisfactory answers during the discussions. Now Roger Haddad has not been in the talks, but we must, after all, assume that those who represent the parties in those talks bring further information. The government got the go-ahead from your three parties on Tuesday night. On Wednesday morning, we presented the bill. Of course, we would not have done that if we had known that there were objections on some points. Then we would have been able to continue the discussion in order to formulate the proposal in such a way that everyone felt that they could support it. But that was not the case. You left the go-ahead, and we presented the bill.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-432	Mr President, I would like to I said in my introductory statement that the Christian Democrats share the view that the government should be able to introduce identity checks in the event of serious danger to public order or internal security in the country. Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson reports on talks that I have also been involved in. What Morgan Johansson does not mention was that before the government invited to the talks, the Social Democrats and the Environmental Party had a press conference where measures were presented that were ready and negotiated, one has to adopt, internally in the government, and the government sought support for the proposals. In the talks that I have attended, there has been no question of negotiating an amendment to the proposals. Perhaps it has been a question of bringing in another proposal. We have put forward proposals in areas of asylum application in order to have a better asylum application process and a faster initial assessment. That I have asked a question about children is not at all surprising. I've done that in all kinds of meetings I've had with the government. The cohesion of children and families is a matter of concern to us Christian Democrats. What is a satisfactory response from the government to the Christian Democrats, I reserve the right to interpret for myself. You have received many questions in the media, here in Parliament and in other contexts to clarify the proposal even more. I am pleased that the government in this House is clearly telling us what should apply to children travelling with parents who have ID documents, that is, if the children are not included. I would have liked to have heard that clarity in previous media performances. We support the focus and the basic issue, but we also listen to the massive criticism.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-437	Mr President, I would like to However, you are not making any substantive proposals as to how you want to change the legislation. You want to talk about how long the law will last. I would have had more respect for the objection if at the same time you had joined your question about the validity of the law with some kind of su bstansikning about how the law would be changed. It is quite correct that Andreas Carlson and I have spent a lot of time during the autumn in negotiations on the migration settlement and now at the end of what we are talking about today. I explained that Andreas Carlson actually asked the question that is now up for debate, that is, how the situation should be dealt with where children arrive with their parents. Already today, this situation exists on the ferry between Trelleborg and Rostock, between Sweden and Germany, where it is estimated that one should not demand ID. It is, of course, unreasonable to do this now with the new relations. We answered that question quite clearly, and Andreas Carlson knows that. Yet he puts forward a reservation. Then he says that we should be clear in the media. It's enough that we're clear in the room when we talk to each other, right? If you have questions, you can always pick up the phone and ask them directly to us. We're in trouble. We are ruling in a Sweden that is in a difficult situation with a refugee crisis. Moreover, the parliamentary situation is such that we must actually conduct these talks and be able to act quickly. It is even more important, then, that the opposition should act in such a way that it can rely on given information. Now I'm not gonna make a big deal out of this. I note that there is support for the proposal itself, the authorisation, but we must have better communication in the future.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-443	Mr President, I would like to The Christian Democrats are a constructive party. We come up with amendments when we see that there are shortcomings. We take a position on proposals when we have had access to the whole, the bill, and when we have been able to take into account criticism from the Law Council and criticism from referral bodies. We are sensitive and we must take account of the effects of the proposal. That is why we think it is reasonable that when we have not seen the regulations, when we do not know how the government will draft the proposal, but when we give the government the mandate to introduce the far-reaching ID controls, we need to be careful in the details. In talks I had with a colleague of the Minister for Justice and Migration, another minister, it was said that the details of the proposal will be discussed and dealt with in the committee committee. It is also there that we Christian Democrats have had several views and have found ambiguities that we have highlighted. But then the door was closed. At the time, there was no possibility of discussing details that had a major impact in the proposal. The government first has a press conference and is seeking support. When the government then wants to discuss the content and ambiguities of sanctions, the definition of serious danger, how the police are to cope with compliance, to limit the negative effects, we want to have a discussion in the Committee on Justice in order to obtain a better basis in view of the speed with which the proposal has been drawn up. I'd welcome that.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-447	That is why we will abstain in the first paragraph, and we will pursue the proposals that we have put forward and voted on, that is, our policy.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-448	Mr President, I would like to At least we have dealt with the question of accompanying children. You have received a clear message, and we agree. As far as the rest of the process is concerned, it is quite right that we had a press conference in which we presented these measures, which we must be prepared to take. We wanted to explain to the Swedish people what situation we were in, but also how the government intended to deal with it. It's the first step. The second step is to go to the opposition and ask: is it possible to get a proposal like this through? What support is there? Do you have any objections to the proposal? That is why we immediately invited you to the group that had negotiated the migration settlement for new talks. We talked about this both before we left the Law Council referral and after the Law Council delivered its opinion. As I said, at the very end of the day we received the green light from your parties that you were behind this. We must be able to count on that, so to speak. The fact that we had a press conference before this to explain to the Swedish people what we were going to do can have no bearing on whether parties should be responsible for the information they have given. As I said, however, we do not need to do much of this now. Now we have a situation where this proposal will be able to go through. I am very keen that we continue to care for the migration settlement that we had last autumn and that we can continue to hold talks in the constructive and good tone that we had during that week as well.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-452	Mr President, I would like to As I mentioned in my speech, it was not so long ago that Löfven said that there was no ceiling for Sweden. It was last spring. Last autumn he stood on a manifestation and said that we should not build any walls in Sweden. Then reality came to grips with the Social Democrats, which is, of course, a positive thing. We are pleased with the proposal now made by the Government on identity checks and the previous decision on border controls. The problem, however, is that there are gaps in this proposal which we do not quite understand why it has not been closed. One of those gaps is that taxis are not covered by the ID checks. The bill states that the situation has not yet been clarified and that this traffic is therefore not covered. However, there is the same criticism of all the other points of the investigation, including in the case of trains and buses, as the proposal was so quickly made. Yet it is necessary. Taxi services and passenger car traffic need to be taken into account in the proposal. It is hard to imagine that those who come here from Africa or the Middle East and stand in Copenhagen would see it as a big and insurmountable obstacle to take a passenger car or taxi over to Sweden. It's the easy part of the trip. When the police visited the Committee on Justice last Friday, they raised precisely this problem and said that it is a gap that you do not have taxis. You can take big taxis, rent a car or ride with other passenger cars. This is a hatch that will be used if you don't plug it.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-457	Mr President, I would like to The simple answer is that such regulation would probably conflict with EU law. So that is a difficult way to go. There is no legal possibility of moving forward on that path, as far as we have analysed it so far. However, it may be that someone who comes by car is brought in by someone else in the car. If you know that it is a question of trafficking in human beings, the driver of the car may be charged with this. I have a few questions for the Swedish Democrats. You started by talking about the roof, Kent Ekeroth. Where, then, is the ceiling for the Swedish Democrats? Is it zero? That, in fact, is what is at issue in your policy. You do not want any immigrants to come to Sweden at all. Our attitude is that we should do as much as we can to help people in need, but there is also a limit to how much we can do. We have done more than any other EU country and more than we have ever done before. I'm very proud of that. Where's the roof for you, Kent Ekeroth? Is it really the case that the party that you represent, which is based on a racist idea, namely that in Sweden it should only live people that you regard as Swedes, do not want to receive any immigrants or refugees at all? Is it the policy of the Swedish Democrats?
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-461	Mr President, I would like to It is said that border control has been introduced at the Öresund Bridge, but the problem is that it itself is full of holes. It's empty sometimes. It's pretty easy to run over there. What you need is a combination of transporter responsibilities, ID checks and proper border control at the Öresund Bridge with strong staffing. As I was told, the Home Guard should be called in, the emergency services restored, and more staffing given to customs and police to control passenger and truck traffic. Otherwise, this legislation will be full of holes. It will certainly make a small difference, but the holes will still be there, and you have to do something about that. I was asked where the roof is for SD. We were very clear about that this autumn at a press conference. It's zero. We want zero asylum immigration to Sweden. This does not mean zero immigration, because the Swedish democrats are in favour of regulated labour immigration instead of the undemanded labour immigration we see today. We are also in favour of a regulated immigration system for quota refugees, the resettlement system. It is not zero immigration, but it is zero asylum immigration, especially in view of how it happens now. People come here, and once they're inside Sweden, they're screaming! Although they come from Denmark or Germany, which in itself are safe countries. We also write in the motion that we want to change the Aliens Act, so that an unfounded application will lead to direct rejection at the border. From this point of view, we want zero, but immigration in itself does not become zero with our policy. It will be slightly above zero, but significantly below the level of 1 000 – 2 000 people a week that is the goal of the government, according to what Morgan Johansson said on the radio the other day. This objective is remarkable. 2000 was the level we had for the 2014 elections, when Reinfeldt said that we can't do more and can't afford anything else. Having it as a goal is very remarkable.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-465	Mr President, I would like to I don't think it's at all as simple as Kent Ekeroth wants to suggest. Your basic view, Kent Ekeroth, is that in Sweden it will only live people that you regard as Swedish and have defined as Swedish. You don't want the rest. There has even been a discussion about what different identities you can have. That is your basic view. Kent Ekeroth is trying to get away by saying that some might get in. However, when we have a situation of 60 million people on the run, all countries must be prepared to take responsibility. Sweden should take a great responsibility. All other countries of the EU should also be prepared to take responsibility. The problem is that every time we talk to the Swedish Democrats about this in the European perspective, you are also opposed to other EU countries taking responsibility. You in the Swedish Democrats are therefore both opposed to Sweden taking responsibility for refugee immigration – Kent Ekeroth stands and nods – and against other countries in the EU receiving refugees. My question is: who will take responsibility for the refugee situation, for the 60 million men, women and children who flee from conflict and oppression? Who will do so, if not the EU, and if you are not even prepared to press for other countries to take this responsibility? The Swedish democrats have played a very ugly role during the autumn. At the time when we had the most difficult time getting asylum accommodation, many asylum homes were affected by fires that were suspected of being constructed. What did the Swedish Democrats do? Well, you posted addresses for asylum accommodations online. Why did you do it, Kent Ekeroth? ( ANDRE VICE TALMANN: That question may be considered rhetorical, since Kent Ekeroth has no more lines. )
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-470	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by agreeing with Beatrice Ask's corrected motion. I note that here we have been talking about the importance of order and order. It must also apply to the legislative process. When you listen to Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson, you might get the impression that the opposition would somehow be responsible for the situation we find ourselves in. But that's not the case. There is a reason why we are debating legislation on ID checks today. Since the ministers were not present at the time of much of the speeches, I would like to make it clear that the government has been considerably slow in taking in and understanding the consequences of the refugee crisis. More should have been done long before. For example, the Moderates have repeatedly called for the government to decide on border controls. Finally, the government took such a decision, namely on 12 November. We have seen a policy characterised by sharp and diametrically opposed positions. If you read articles in Dagens Nyheter and Svenska Dagbladet the other day you could get the impression that the Prime Minister believes that we no longer have a refugee crisis. This is in some contradiction with what is being said by the government today. It is very important to deal with the situation that we are experiencing here and now. It is therefore high time to take action. The introduction of ID controls is one such measure. This means that we share the Minister for Justice and Migration's description of the meaning of the right of asylum. The problem is that we have had a very short time to prepare the proposal. That preparation time has even been extremely short. This has been demonstrated by the fact that, in principle, some consultation bodies have been advised not to give written opinions, although they wished to do so. The preparation process continued in the Riksdag. We must, of course, relate to this. It is part of the reality that we must take in, even if it involves a temporary adaptation to the situation, as a representative of one of the government parties put it. We think that you should always be adapted to really. Morgan Johansson has now left the Chamber, otherwise he would have received the answers he called for. One of the answers is that we think it is important to do something here and now, but that does not mean that we should implement rules that, after the total processing process, are as soon as possible in the nature of cardboard. What is proposed in the bill on the period of reflection, where the government will consider a situation that has arisen for 14 days to arrive at if it still exists, has in practice been 14 times longer than the period of referral. There are issues that have not been dealt with, which is clear if you read what the Law Council has said. One such issue is the right of individuals to bring their civil rights under the ECHR and the form of government before the courts. It is not treated at all. Nor is the question of judicial review, how it relates to legislation, dealt with. When we asked about this in the course of the proceedings, about the European Convention and the law on judicial review, the answer was that it was not known. I can mention that during a previous government I was responsible in Parliament, in the Civil Committee, for a proposal on aviation law. The proposal originally came from the Ministry of Industry. It had to be revised for a year in the Ministry of Justice to keep it of sufficient quality. No, there is not a conflict of interest in this way that has been claimed by the government. It's made. It is perfectly possible to implement rules that are needed here and now, but also to correct the shortcomings that exist in the legislation. It is a balance of interests adapted to the situation. We can accept that we cannot answer all the questions here and now if we are prepared to correct the shortcomings we can see. The Council's assessment is that each individual carrier has the possibility to appeal against a decision on the basis of the ECHR and the form of government. You have to relate to that in some way, not just think it away. This is particularly true after we have understood that a proposal for a regulation has been submitted to certain consultation bodies but the Parliament has withheld the proposal. That is not acceptable. That's asking for carte blanche. Then they try to transfer responsibility to the opposition in different ways. It's the government that's been slow. It is the government that has not taken in reality. That's why we're in this situation. It is better to do something late than to do nothing at all. But it has to be done right, and if you don't have time to do the right thing from the start, you have to take your homework home and come back. There's nothing weird about it. The explanations that have been heard here today from representatives of both the Social Democrats and the Green Party about why they do not want to take in the fact that there are shortcomings are, in my opinion, very incomprehensible.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-485	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for approval of the Center Party's reservation 1. Zari and her family came to Sweden as refugees in 1986. They fled Iran where the regime had hunted, imprisoned and tortured Zaris's man to unrecognizable proportions. They got out of Iran via smugglers, without knowing where they were going or in which country they were going to end up. Zari was five months pregnant, and they had their four - year - old daughter. The smuggler stole their passports on the way. Today, Zari works as a teacher at a reception facility here in Sweden, and her two children work as doctors. Physio fled to Sweden from Turkey 34 years ago. She had no ID documents because she was wanted by the Turkish military junta, who had previously tortured her. That's why she couldn't ask for a passport. Today, she works as head of operations in a medium-sized municipality. Ryad fled Iraq after being imprisoned and tortured, first to Syria, then on to Sweden via Russia and by boat from Latvia. Now he's been here for over 20 years running his own business. He didn't have a passport with him when he arrived. Mehdis family fled Afghanistan to Iran when he was five years old. In Iran they lived poor, and the children never got any ID documents. Now Mehdi works at a preschool in Stockholm, and in his spare time he helps unaccompanied children. Hassan and his family fled Syria. The rest of the family had a passport, but for Hassan it was dangerous to apply for a passport because he would have been compulsorily recruited to the military. Today Hassan attends Swedish school, just like her siblings. Alireza from Afghanistan came to Sweden two years ago. He didn't have any IDs. Since then he has learned Swedish, started Ensamkommanets Förbund and is an active debater on refugee issues. Shivan is Kurdish from Syria and came without a passport to Sweden last autumn. For many Kurds it is extremely difficult to get passports in Syria. Now he has just been granted a residence permit and has been working for six months in a carpentry. Three brothers, 14, 9 and 4 years old, are Afghans, but all but the oldest brother were born in exile in Iran. Some years ago, the 14-year-old had to leave school and go to work, when the father was injured in the workplace and could not continue to work. This summer the family left for Europe. There was gunfire on the border between Iran and Turkey, and the parents told the children to run. The three brothers moved on on on their own and arrived in Sweden a few months ago. None of the three have IDs. A nine - year - old from Syria recently came to Sweden with his older brother. The parents are dead, but two older brothers are already here. The nine-year-old doesn't have an ID. Mohammed from Eritrea works with it. Abir from Iraq works as project manager. Anthony from Nigeria works at the car test. Sakina from Iraq works with marketing. Fatma, Bahat, Ismael, Ishmael, Najib, Miriam, Ahmed– I can go on forever. None of them had ID documents when they applied for asylum in Sweden, but they were allowed to stay. They were deemed to have protection reasons. The same people had been extremely hard hit by the id requirement we are now debating and which a majority in here, regardless of limitations and reservations, considers to be right and reasonable. Making it impossible to travel legally by train, bus or boat will mean that those who do not have valid ID documents are instead referred to dangerous and illegal roads. It will fatten criminal organisations and trade in false passports. This will lead to people hiding under trucks to cross the border from Denmark to Sweden, sit in deadly boats across the water from Germany to Sweden or cross the mountains from Norway to Sweden – if they make it so far, that is. What is happening now is rather that country after country signals that you want to keep people away and shut people out. If the other countries do as Denmark has announced they will do, where will the refugees go? It is the most vulnerable who will now lose their opportunity to seek protection. We are already seeing how the countries bordering Syria are making all kinds of excuses for not allowing people to cross the border. It closes people in a country that we here in Sweden consider to be a single large conflict zone. That's the reality. Being a realist is seeing this. This is what will be voted through today in this room. The same politicians who just a month ago complained that people died in the Mediterranean are now prepared to set up exactly the same deadly obstacles around Sweden. It's a shame! Anyone who pushes the yes button here today and lets this pass is an accessory to what is now happening.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-501	Mr President, I would like to Members! This debate is about people on the run. It is about those who are fleeing the bombings of civilian districts by the As Ad regime and those who are fleeing from IS terror in Syria. It is about those who cannot remain in Afghanistan of lawlessness and violence. It is about those who have been forced to leave Iraq, which is marked by car bombs and war. But this debate is also about our ability to see them. It is about our ability and our willingness to protect the people who need our protection. Nothing but this debate is about. When people flee, we too are tested. Today we can see that we did not pass the test. For many years, the European Union's policy was to keep them as far away as possible. That policy did not go well. As the number of refugees increased, increasingly desperate and literally began to move towards Europe, the European Union's policy fell apart as a house of cards. The external border is not controlled. The Dublin Regulation is not working. Directives are not being complied with. The Schengen Agreement is creaking. Agreements entered into on the redistribution of refugees are ignored. More than ever before, we would have needed joint responsibility, sharing and the right to asylum. The European Union collapsed when it had actually been needed. The EU was tested and failed the test. The joint responsibility, solidarity, was not there. Instead, some did a lot, and I am proud of my country. I am proud of what Sweden has done. I am proud of all the volunteers who make contact with the accommodation for unaccompanied minors and stand at the railway station. I'm proud of those who work overtime at the Migration Agency and are away from their families. I am proud of Sweden's police and social security secretary for what they have done this autumn. They have shown Sweden from the best side of our country – a well-organized country that tackles major challenges and can handle them without major challenges. It is a country where many people show empathy and concern. That is the Sweden that I want to see. It is the Sweden that the Left Party is a part of. But as much as we have seen the best in our country this autumn, we have also seen the worst – those who hate, those who despise, those who openly show their racism, those who slander and those who burn refugee camps. For me, it's a different country. It is not the Sweden that I want to live in. I know that the other Sweden is the real Sweden, the country that I am proud of. During this autumn, Sweden was a light in the dark for people on the run. Today, the lights go out. The government says: Now that we are no longer to receive, others are to do so. They don't even believe it themselves! The decisions are already taken. Norway has already introduced the rules. Denmark is ready to press the start button and close its limit. What other countries follow and when do we not know, but we can assume that this will happen. From being the light in the dark, we are now taking part in putting out the lights in Europe one by one. We are taking part in the race to the bottom, the same race that crumbles the right of asylum. Where are they going, the ones from Afghanistan, Iraq and Syria? Perhaps they end up in the comfortless camps in Turkey, where children are not allowed to go to school and parents are not allowed to work. Maybe they're stuck in the mud mill outside Macedonia in desperation. Perhaps they will be driven between the countries of Europe. One thing we can know is that when we close the borders and more people follow, some will take advantage of the situation. The human smugglers stand ready and skin people on their assets by endangering their lives. Many refugees will be in danger of life. It is a direct consequence of the decision that this Parliament is expected to take today, and every Member who pushes the yes button is co-responsible. You bourgeois pretend in this debate that you have a different and better proposal, but you know that you do not. You stand for exactly the same policy – a few months fewer, but the effect of closed borders via Denmark is the same. It's a pretty pitiful performance. I don't like what the government does. I will vote against it, and all the Left Party Members will vote against it. At least it's honest to say what you want and not pretend you had another proposal. Members! It is a human right to seek asylum. The purpose of the bill is that people should not be able to exercise that right, because they will be stopped before they reach the border. We all know that the goal, more or less pronounced, is for Denmark to close its border, so that we do not have to do the job ourselves. It is not a austerity; it is probably a cross-stop we are looking at, and we see how the Nordic passport union, which has worked so well, breaks up along the way. Who should do the work? It is train hosts, bus drivers and security officers who will become the new passport controllers for Sweden. They're not trained for it. They don't want to do it. Their trade unions object to their being entrusted with this task, but they know that their companies will receive enormous fines if they do not stop people from running. That's how the right to asylum is compromised. That is what we are voting on today. It obscures Europe. The asylum law, which has existed in the post-war period, is crumbling. The decision today is part of that development. But we in the Left Party refuse to contribute to that development. We will vote against it. Each Member votes ultimately according to his own conscience. Many will ask us, in upcoming election movements or perhaps at Christmas dinner with the grandchildren: How did you vote that time in parliament? I appeal to each and every one of you, vote for your conscience!
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-519	Mr President, I would like to Never before have so many people been on the run from war and persecution. It is a humanitarian crisis that affects first and foremost those who live under oppression, under threat and under persecution. The main responsibility for providing protection is that of the neighbouring countries. This is still the case, although by the end of the summer an increasing number of people have made their way to Europe. But most of them are still here. As always, most of them remain in their home country or in the nearest neighbouring country, and this will continue to be the case in the future. The fact that so many of those who have come to Europe have come to Sweden is a great strain for our social institutions. The Finnish Immigration Service is heavily burdened. Police resources have to a large extent been directed towards dealing with internal border control. The housing crisis that existed before has become worse. Medical care is strained as needs increase. And not least social services around the country are under enormous pressure. All the heroes of civil society organisations – who have helped day and night to ensure that the reception of asylum seekers works as well, as humane and as humane as possible – are struggling to carry on with that work. It is a very strained situation. This is a serious situation, and this situation requires action. But first of all, these are measures to strengthen the conditions for the social institutions, which – if nothing is done – will not be able to cope with the situation. We may need to amend legislation, regulations and government regulations to cope with the housing situation, to ensure the care of vulnerable children and to cope with schooling and a functioning labour market. But in those parts we see far from the urgency of the government that would be needed. We have full respect for the fact that, in an emergency, action may need to be taken more quickly than when the situation is normal. However, even in an emergency situation, there must be a minimum requirement for the preparation process. If the government thinks that it has complied with this proposal, it is appalling. On 22 October, the M igrationsverket presented its forecast that the number of asylum seekers this year could amount to 190 000 people. We heard earlier today in this House from Minister of Justice and Migration Morgan Johansson that he estimates that by the end of the year we will have received 160 000 asylum seekers. We therefore do not reach the upper limit of the forecast made by the Migration Board on 22 October. The situation described by the government as a serious threat to public order and internal security – which, according to the government's assessment, is the large number of asylum seekers – should have been clear to the government on 22 October. On 30 November, the government submitted a first draft of a secret referral and gave a few stakeholders less than two days to comment orally – on a bill that could have a major impact both on the right of asylum and on individuals and traders. This applies most immediately, of course, in the southern part of the country, but as several referrals point out, it can also have consequences for the whole country's food supply, for example. The short period of referral is remarkable. The form of government requires the preparation of government matters to obtain the necessary information and opinions from the relevant authorities and municipalities, as well as associations and individuals. For those authorities, municipalities, regions, associations and individuals who would like to comment, the way in which the government deals with the matter – which they themselves describe as not having had a customary written consultation procedure – has made it impossible for individuals and associations that were not selected by the government to submit their views. The government produced a work material, a draft legislative referral. It is a work material which is not yet a public document and which neither we in Parliament nor anyone else has the right to access. That is what the government sent out, on which the consultation bodies would have views. Even the fact that there was a referral procedure, even if it was not customary, was not public. There was no outline of this on the government's website. There was no press release and no public statements. How, then, are the constitutional requirements to be met? One of the bodies that, according to their own statements, wanted to contribute to the preparation was the Red Cross. It was only when the Council of Law referral became public that they could take note of the details of the proposal. They write in their letter to the Government: ..................................................... There are therefore stakeholders who have asked for their views but through the government's procedure have been kept away from that possibility. Is this compatible with the Swedish Constitution? The government had not appointed a consultation body that has its main focus on the right to asylum and human rights in general. What would Save the Children have said if they had been given the opportunity? What would Amnesty have said if they had been given the opportunity? When you then read the proposal from the government, you can see that the same wording remains as in the description of the referrals in the legislative referral. The government writes: Sweden's bus companies reject the proposals for special identity checks on buses. The other respondents have different views. ..................................................... The other speakers have spoken orally. To hear what they have said, you have to ask the government to get the documents. I did. I spent the night between Sunday and Monday, at. 00.59. It took the government two full working days and one working day until the clock. 15.07 before I received an answer to the question and was able to take note of the documents on which the government's bill was based. When you read, you see that the Trade Association Train Operators, who had also made comments, writes that they believe that the proposal in its current form cannot be the basis for the issue of a regulation and that they believe that the government should withdraw the proposal. The government has described it as follows: But it is a clear rejection of the government's proposal, and the government has darkened in its proposal. When the Government states that some further comments have been made, it writes that, among other things, the Red Cross and SJ have submitted comments. But nowhere in the product can you read about their views. This is normally something you should have the opportunity to take part in a legislative matter. It is not clear that the Red Cross clearly rejects, with reference to the right of asylum, among other things. Nor does it emerge that SJ also strongly disagrees. Mr President, I would like to It is very regrettable that the Government is proceeding in such a way that we are not in a position to take a proper position on the Government's proposals on a sound basis and on a sound basis. The fact that the Christian Democrats realise that we are in a tight position means that we have made proposals in this House in particular on how to deal with the situation, not least in the field of social services. I hope that the government is prepared to take action and listen to our views in those parts. We have accepted that the government may need – temporarily, during a period when a bill is being prepared properly – a certain possibility is given, if one considers that the serious situation arises. However, it is not clear today whether this situation is already taking place. Otherwise, I refer to my party colleague, Andreas Carlson, who has presented our proposals.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-538	Mr President, I would like to The warning signals around the country are becoming increasingly clear that Sweden is not able to handle the very large number of refugees that have arrived in Sweden for a short time. More and more municipalities report that they are not able to meet their commitments, the Migration Agency is on their knees, health care has to delay investigations and operations in some places, there is a shortage of school places around the country, the number of sick social security officers in social services is increasing and the lack of housing means that temporary tent camps have to be opened up or planned to be opened up in different parts of the country. The list can be made long. The Swedish Civil Protection and Preparedness Agency, MSB, confirms this picture and concerns in its reports on the national situation. The Finnish Immigration Service states that people do not have time to identify and register when they arrive in Sweden. Mr Säpo warns that an uncontrolled influx of refugees risks making it impossible to detect possible terrorists in the large flow. After the attack in Paris, it was discovered that two terrorists had just come into the flow of other refugees. We must regain this control in Sweden in order to avoid a systemic collapse for our welfare. For this reason, we in the Moderates support the introduction of ID controls, but with the objections and reservations about duration, feedback and more that my colleague Beatrice Ask has previously mentioned. However, the introduction will have major consequences mainly for traffic across Öresund to and from Sweden. This should be taken very seriously. I live at the Strait and have previously worked at the Customs Department as a customs inspector. That's why I know a little bit about the flow across the strait. About 15 000 people commute daily between Sweden and Denmark. A lot of my friends do. It may be that they work in a fact store, an insurance company or a pharmaceutical company such as Novo Nordisk. For us in Skåne it is no more strange to go to Copenhagen than it is for a Stockholmer to get to Nacka or Solna, for example. Major efforts have been made over the years in the Öresund region to achieve an integrated labour market and an integrated region. It is important that this fine work is not destroyed. For this reason, in their accompanying motion for a resolution on the report, the Moderates have expressly called on the Government to take the necessary measures to limit the negative effects that the introduction inevitably has on passengers and carriers. I assume that this will also be taken into account to a large extent by the government when it makes provision for the introduction of ID checks. Mr President, I would like to Transporter responsibility obviously places great demands on transporters, but the police authority will also be subjected to great trials when they are to check compliance with the regulations that the government can be adopted. The report states that the government does not believe that this will lead to significant increases in costs for the police. I would be very surprised if police costs for this did not increase significantly. Here the government must be prepared to give the police the conditions they need to carry out their important mission. When the police visited the Committee on Justice a week ago, the representatives were also very clear about this. Police resources now go to a large extent to try to control the flows of refugees across Öresund. Unless the necessary funds are given to the authority, the police will not be able to carry out their regular police work around the country, especially in southern Sweden. Once again, I assume that the government will closely monitor developments regarding the police and provide the resources that may be needed. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I must mention, to say the least, the mediocre approach to this bill. I fully understand the need for urgency on this issue. But it does not give the government a free pass to present a poorly prepared proposal like this – a hafsverk. I can say that, as I am in fact in favour of the introduction of ID controls. There has been a lack of proper impact assessments, and the time for the consultation bodies to actually immerse themselves in the proposal and give wise answers has been far too short. The criticisms of the Law Council have, rightly, been very extensive. I think it is good that the government is acting and taking action in response to the refugee crisis that is putting great strain on our society. At the same time, however, we must have some kind of quality requirements for the legislative proposals that the government is putting forward. Mr President, I would like to I am in favour of reservation 5, to which my colleague, Beatrice Ask, has previously applied for approval.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-553	Mr President, Members of Parliament, you listen and you read this about one or several decades when today's challenges are history, as they always are! During the centre party's important debate on the programme of ideas, I was informed that a small country such as Sweden in the European Union cannot unilaterally lay down much more generous rules of migration or asylum than other EU countries, at least not in a world of deep divides, some billion people starving and some 60 million people fleeing. We agreed in the Center Party on a good programme of ideas with good visions and taking into account reality. Since then, I have now and then highlighted the view that Sweden needs to adapt its asylum rules in the direction of the European Union. Unfortunately, this simple statement has often been met with agitated feelings, and I have been criticised for fishing in cloudy waters and even for expressing myself xenophobic or racist. Nothing could be more wrong, and I am, of course, deeply offended by this. These groundless accusations against me are, in substance, incomprehensible, but are explained by the corridor of opinion maintained by politicians and the media in the Swedish public debate, in the best of intentions. It does not exist or has not existed, they sometimes claim. That is wrong, and we all know that we have tried to broaden it. If Sweden had listened to us who cautiously pointed out that Sweden should adapt its asylum rules in the EU direction, the number of asylum seekers to the EU who chose to go to Sweden might not have been as large as it has been. But it's history today. Now reality forces the same politicians and parties and the same leader writers with high and proud tailings to propose and defend measures that strike blindly and that were previously completely unthinkable and then described with the epithet that I do not want to mention here. Now the sacred principles that have always been highlighted in the past are being forgotten, and now the drastic measures are being defended as necessary in a new reality. Yes, but the debate on principles that took place in the past actually includes the same principles then as now, and the overall reality has unfortunately not changed. Here we are today. We see panic attacks forced by reality. The paralysis of recent years has also highlighted the Swedish Democrats as one of Sweden's three largest parties, not by their own strength, I would say, but helped by those parties who wanted more than is possible in the long run. The government has suddenly turned the course 180 degrees and is now proposing radical measures to prevent many of those who want to seek asylum in any EU country from being able to do so in our country. Today, we are dealing with a bill, which hastily hastened, with poorly prepared and very far-reaching proposals. Mr President, I would like to The Center Party has been working forward and for a long time has been proposing rows of constructive proposals for better integration, more effective reception of refugees and more at work through lower thresholds, better regulation and simpler jobs. It is very regrettable that, so far, strong political forces have been able to prevent these necessary efforts from being carried out. I hope that the reality will soon enable the proposals of the Center Party to be implemented in broad political agreement. I would even say that something else would be very surprising. The reality is a heavy force, and it speaks for the proposals of the Center Party and against the quadratic 1970s fundamentalism of the Social Democrats and the LO, which slows down much of what needs to be done, to the detriment of more jobs, not least for many with an overseas background. On the other hand, the Center Party and the Left Party are opposed to further measures being taken to slow down the very large influx of asylum seekers and others into the EU, which have largely chosen to go to Sweden. For my part, I believe that action is necessary, but that the government's proposal has major shortcomings. That is why, Mr President, I shall abstain in today's vote.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-564	Mr President, I would like to Last summer tens of thousands of Swedes gathered in large manifestations to welcome refugees to Sweden and protest against the EU's refugee policy. It was the image of a lifeless child on a beach that became the trigger. Not only because we recognized ourselves and our children when we saw the soft arms that should build sand castles or the small shoes with feet that should jump and run, but also because refugeehood is part of us and of Sweden's history. For any of us, refugeehood is part of the great-grandmother's journey here with the white buses. For someone else, it is Dad's escape from the Bosnia of genocide or his own escape in his mother's arms from Chile or Iran. It is part of the history of loved ones, friends, workmates and classmates. In his speech at the manifestation in Stockholm, Prime Minister Löfven said that we should never build walls to separate people from people. He said that his Europe receives people fleeing war, that his Europe does not build walls. These are words that are mandatory at a time when the world is experiencing the worst refugee disaster since the Second World War. Today, Stefan Löfven and the government are betraying that promise. The asylum court was created when Europe was in ruins after World War II and millions were on the run. Again millions had lost their lives in destruction and war. Then we promised each other that we would never again deny a man in flight protection. It is not a promise you can make subject to, because in the shadow of annihilation and world war the world realized that it had a share in the blame. That it had turned its back on the Jews, among other things, as they sought refuge from the Nazis'destruction. Now that we see Europe becoming ever more united and putting the responsibility for people on the run away, it sounds like an echo of the Evian Conference in 1938, when country after country declared that they were unfortunately unable to accept persecuted Jews. They couldn't afford it. They didn't have room. This would create concern and increase the contradictions in society. It would create a Jewish problem in the host country. This is a historic shame we did not think would happen again. But now that the world is facing a new challenge, the words of the Evian Conference echo in the back of the head. Country after country now says again that they can't afford it. They don't have room. The reception of refugees creates concerns and contradictions in society. This creates refugee problems in the host country. But human rights and the right to asylum are not created for days of peace and quiet. They exist for situations such as this, where many people are forced to flee and are vulnerable because of war, persecution and terror. The right of asylum exists because we know that it is far too easy to turn the persecuted and exposed back, especially when it is challenging or strained. The asylum course is not something you can turn off or let go of. Now that we see that the EU is completely failing to agree on the necessary steps that would give people on the run the opportunity for protection, it is not a reason for Sweden to do the same. Yet this is exactly what the government is asking us to do today. If we are prepared to restrict the right to asylum now, in a situation where Sweden, although taking a great responsibility, is actually richer than ever – what other rights are next? We hear the government put asylum seekers against sick leave and those with functional variations who need assistance. It scares me. How can we feel secure in a society if we know that our rights are only respected as long as it is simple, as long as it does not interfere with job tax deductions and interest subsidies to the richest, as long as no expenditure ceiling needs to be lifted to create room for more people? We have heard the government use words such as a system collapse and talk about a serious danger to public order or internal security. I look around in a Sweden where middle- and upper-class households are currently doing even more Christmas shopping this year. I look around in a Sweden where growth is increasing. I hear the government expressing concern about the goal of life and health in the reception in Sweden. I think of a Syria in ruins, where the thin bombs fall and Daish rapes and terrorizes.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-578	I am thinking of a Turkey that is now being paid by the EU to act as a camp guard and to intern and deport people on the run back to Syria and Iraq.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-579	I am thinking of Maria, eight years old, whom I met at Lesbos in October. She had just crossed the deadly sea with wings as the only safety. She was wet and cold. I am thinking of the more than 3,000 people who have not made that journey without drowning. I am thinking of the hike that Maria and her mother had ahead of them in order to get to Grandpa in Sweden, across the fields in Serbia, through tear gas and fences in Hungary.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-580	I wonder if the government really understands what they are asking us today: that a strained situation in some municipalities and new challenges in terms of building housing, creating school places, social protection for unaccompanied minors and a society that holds more is reason enough to break our promises and turn people on the run. Can you deny people without proper IDs just that right? In that case, perhaps it is time for the Social Democracy to take down the first wave of solidarity and justice. No, the collapse of the system is nothing more than an ideological and moral collapse. It is people on the run who pay the highest price. But in the end, it is all of us who bear the historical consequences when economic policy is not used as a tool for social expansion and a small, fascist opinion has to weigh more heavily than the many, many around the country who are working every day to welcome people to a life of security in our community. Each of us today has a decision to make, and I hope that we take it with our hearts and do not let panic and scare propaganda control.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-584	Mr President, I would like to Two speakers from the Christian Democrats have already been in the debate, but as a spokesperson for migration policy, I would also like to touch on today's subject briefly from a migration policy perspective. Let me begin by saying that at a time when very many people are fleeing war, oppression and persecution and others, for perfectly understandable reasons, are withdrawing from poverty and misery should be very happy and proud that Sweden has taken a very large responsibility, greater than any other country. We should really also be proud of the wave of humanity that swept over Sweden during the autumn. Yet, Mr President, we are forced to note that we are facing challenges today that we are not yet able to fully assess the consequences of. The Christian Democrats' starting point is that Sweden has a great moral responsibility to help people in need. We also want to safeguard transparency and freedom of movement within the EU. At the same time, it is a fact that the common principles of regulated migration within the EU have in principle been removed from the system. Many of the conditions on which the Swedish asylum reception system is based do not apply today. At the same time, the situation in the municipalities is very strained. There is an acute shortage of accommodation places, and several authorities are alerting about an unsustainable work situation. One consequence of this is, unfortunately, that we now need to reduce the pressure on Sweden and the Swedish asylum reception system by getting fewer asylum seekers to come here to Sweden and more to go to other EU countries. Mr President, I would like to Last December, we Christian Democrats proposed a number of constructive proposals aimed at reducing the costs of Swedish reception of refugees. Today, as you know, the situation is quite different from what it was at the time. It goes without saying that further measures therefore need to be taken. On the Christian Democrats' side, we therefore welcome the fact that, after much waiting to be said, the government too has now begun to act. And we share the focus on the concrete proposals that have been put forward in the last turn. This also applies to the proposal we are discussing today on the possibility for the government to introduce identity checks. However, as Andreas Carlson and Emma Henriksson have said earlier in the debate, the government proposal is very hasty. It has met with severe criticism, not least from the Law Council. We believe that this should have implications for the drafting of the law. On the Christian Democrats' side, therefore, we have tried to record several constructive proposals in committee management that do not delay the ID checks but would mean that more reconciliation points and better guarantee legal certainty. It has not least been about limiting the validity of the law to six months, not because we say that there will be no need for an opportunity to use the ID-control instrument even in six months' time, but because it allows the government to come back with new, better prepared legislation this spring. Unfortunately, we have not heard from the government either this or the other proposals that we set out in our motions and reservations. I would therefore like to conclude, Mr President, by emphasising that, across the board, there has been a very unfortunate delay on the part of the government in the autumn which, I believe, has diluted both the public concern and the feeling that many people bear that politics is not capable of action at a time of initiative and determination. I hope, Mr President, that we will see a change on this plane in the future.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-594	Mr President, I would like to The question of identity checks in the case of transport by bus, train or passenger ship has been prepared by the Committee on Legal Affairs, but since this issue has a major impact on our transport system, the Committee on Transport and Tourism has also given its opinion on this matter. As Vice-Chairman of the Transport Committee, I can say that there is much in the government's preparation that is doubtful and that the government cannot answer what the impact is on traffic, not least in the Öresund region, or how controls are to be carried out in practice. What the government is asking the Riksdag is a very large and broad authorisation, in practice a kind of free card to draw up the rules on these ID controls, and that is worrying, Mr President. We will closely monitor how the government designs the regulations to ensure that the negative effects on traffic and people's work commuting are limited. I would like to start by pointing out that we should be proud that Sweden is a country that has taken and takes a very big responsibility in a troubled time. But I would also like to point out that the large number of people who have come to Sweden pose major challenges for our authorities, for civil society and for the economy. As my moderate colleagues pointed out earlier in this House, we believe that even more far-reaching measures are needed. However, in the absence of such proposals from the government, we support the possibility for the government to decide on regulations on ID checks. Mr President, I would like to As many have been involved, there has been time to act for quite some time, and the government has been slow to deal with the emerging refugee situation. It is clear that this legislative proposal has been drawn up in haste, and it has not given the stakeholders who would have had an opportunity to improve the proposal a chance to express their views and to carry out impact assessments. Oral referrals over the phone are not, in fact, serious. And it is remarkable that we have such a poor basis for decision-making on legislation that has a major impact on carriers, on passengers and on the supply of goods in our country. Both the Moderates and the Alliance gathered in the Transport Committee have strongly criticised the government's preparation, not least when it comes to how the controls are to be carried out in practice and the effects it has on our transport. Let me mention a few points. Inevitably, the proposal will have a major impact on transport operators and travellers in the Öresund region. Therefore, the government has an extremely large responsibility in the future to resolve a number of practical issues and to take the necessary measures to limit the negative effects. The Transport Committee has met quite a few actors in the transport sector, and they are very worried. Train operators flag up increased fares and delays and point to the fact that train hosts simply lack the skills, time and training to carry out the ID checks. The Swedish bus companies and Skånetrafiken have also pointed out that the proposal may lead to delays and possibly cancellations. The industry as a whole is concerned about unanswered questions from the government about how the controls are to be carried out, where they are to be done and who is to implement them. Mr President, I would like to I note that the practical implementation is not defined by the government. I would like to stress that in the further process it is important that train and bus operators, who in this case need to assume a kind of authority responsibility, be supported in this work. The government must ensure that those who are to carry out the checks receive clear instructions as to what the mission includes and what requirements and obligations apply. They must also be supported by the relevant authorities in carrying out their duties. Another issue is infrastructure. Where are these checks to be carried out if they cannot be carried out on board our trains? It must be ensured that there is an appropriate infrastructure on the Danish side. Then you have to talk to Denmark, which does not seem to be something that the government has devoted itself to to a great extent. I assume that, in close consultation with the industry and the Danish side, we will ensure that there is infrastructure so that these controls can be carried out. The penalty fee is not specified in more detail. However, in its opinion, the Committee on Transport and Tourism says that it must be a proportionate penalty to give carriers a reasonable opportunity to adapt their activities in accordance with the new rules. We are also concerned that carriers are flagging that traffic across the Öresund Bridge may, in the worst case, be completely withdrawn. This would have negative socio-economic consequences for the entire Skåne region and ultimately for Sweden. The Transport Committee and the Alliance therefore stress that it is important that the government conducts a continuous dialogue with the carriers in order to avoid this happening. Mr President, I would like to I would like to emphasise that we support the proposal on ID checks, but that we assume that the government, when using this far-reaching power, will carefully examine issues of proportionality, practical application, costs and impact. It is important for the government to take the necessary measures to limit the negative effects that will arise for travellers and carriers. In view of the specific nature of the proposal and the lack of preparation, it is also remarkable that the government has not wanted to respond to the constructive proposals made by my party colleagues and alliance colleagues in the Committee on Justice to limit the validity of the law and that the government should return to Parliament with a follow-up and accounting. These seem to be quite reasonable demands. Mr President, I would like to The issue of refugees will continue to need to be addressed with more and more strong measures. I assume that the government will do its homework on future proposals and ensure proper preparation and give the relevant authorities and companies a serious opportunity to respond to referrals and impact assessments. Important and urgent issues also deserve and require proper management. Mr President, I would like to The Moderates abstain from paragraph 1, and I agree with previous requests from my fellow party member Beatrice Ask.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-610	Mr President, I would like to Wise governments and their infrastructure ministers are building bridges and roads to make it easier for people and goods to travel and meet in an increasingly open society. This is what creates growth and prosperity and gives us the resources to make decisions in the Swedish Parliament. In a short time, however, the Government of Löfven – Romson has had time to present, take back and again present legislative proposals that bring us to the state of affairs between countries that existed shortly after World War II. SJ and other public transport operators transporting people and goods across land borders and in particular between Sweden and Denmark have reacted to their drivers and hosts starting to act in the position of police officers with official tasks in order to assess the validity of identity documents. Some of them are considering stopping their cross-border traffic. Mr President, I would like to Wise governments make it easier for people and goods to travel and meet in an open society. It gives us resources for our prosperity. Wise governments exercise leadership in peoples and countries difficult situations. You don't turn panic into politics. The Öresund Bridge is an important economic zone in Europe and very important for our country's economy. The poor handling of the bill we are about to decide on in the Riksdag and its very serious consequences for southern Sweden in particular are well illustrated in a debate speech today in the South Swedish Business Federation. Mr President, I would like to The Center Party will vote against the proposal to introduce ID requirements at the Swedish border. We think that the preparation is substandard. That is why we are reacting with a rejection proposal. Measures must be put forward in a well-thought-out way. They must continue to protect people's right to seek protection and not cause greater problems than they are expected to solve. In this case, the government has done exactly the opposite and is making desperate proposals without any impact assessment or time for reflection. Panic became politics. Mr President, I would like to We have three reasons for our refusal. The first is the right of asylum. The second is the economy and entrepreneurship. The third is the extremely inadequate democratic process in dealing with this dossier. Panic became politics. This proposal represents steps in the wrong direction both in substance and in process. Therefore, the Center Party will vote against the government proposal. Anyone in this House who defends asylum law, enterprise, continued prosperity, the economy and stable frameworks for the democratic system should do the same. Mr President, I would like to I agree with Johan Hedin's motion for the approval of reservation 1 and therefore the rejection of the bill.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-620	Mr President, I would like to Morgan Johansson conveniently asked some insinuant questions when I didn't have any lines left. Then he chose to leave the Chamber. He'll get his answers anyway. He insinuated that the asylum fires are the fault of the Swedish Democrats because some local associations have published lists of where to look up these accommodations. The only people I know have been convicted of these asylum fires are asylum seekers themselves. It is known that one third of the fires have been caused by those who live there, because they started from within. The police visited the Justice Committee and said that there are no other patterns in the asylum fires except that it is sometimes the asylum seekers themselves who start them. Beyond that, of course, they commit crimes, and that is violence. The police spend a lot of resources on these asylum seekers, who thank Sweden by burning down the accommodation we provide them. Some local Swedish-democratic associations have published lists publicly so that citizens have a chance to react to the madness of looking up asylum homes everywhere. Swedish newspapers also publish lists of addresses on new asylum homes, but when we do, it is a problem. We publish these lists so that the municipality after municipality tries to hide that asylum accommodations will be opened up. You try to hide it from the residents to be able to pick on them as much as possible. It is our duty to inform our citizens of their democratic right to appeal against the asylum seekers who are popping up at their houses, at their children's recreation centres or wherever it may be. I am not surprised that the Social Democrats do not want citizens to know what immigration is doing to Sweden, because they have been part of those who have been trying to silence mass immigration policy for decades.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-628	Mr President, I would like to The reality that the Swedish Democrats have long warned about has now revealed itself as a shock to our naive government. There are those who say that the Swedish Democrats have always been against migration and that there is therefore a difference between the newly awakened ambition of other parties to reduce asylum pressure and the policy of the Swedish Democrats. And yes, it is. The migratory pressure of the entire 21st century to Sweden, which has been intense compared to other EU countries, has been a prerequisite for such a large proportion of immigrants to Europe in recent years having chosen to go to Sweden. So yes, there is a difference, and that is that the policy of the Swedish Democrats had meant long-term responsibility for Swedish welfare while you have deliberately led Sweden to the situation we are now in. There is a difference between the Swedish Democrats and the rest of you that I will be very clear about in my conversations with the voters. Because it is not the case, Mr President, that all migrants and asylum seekers declare Sweden by chance as their final destination, but it is of course a matter of red-green and bourgeois governments having intensively marketed generous conditions for permanent residence permits and for Swedish welfare. You can't blame yourself. This migration chaos is the result of the generous promises made by naive governments to the people of the outside world. The Left Party writes in its party motion that the proposal on identity checks risks negative consequences, including for the right of asylum and for entrepreneurs. When society's most vulnerable groups, children, sick people and those in need of public services in elderly care and health care, risk not receiving the care they need, the Left Party stands on the side of business and business and says that people who currently find themselves in safe, democratic countries have the right to challenge Sweden's ability to provide our elderly and sick with the care they need. On the contrary, I believe that we have the right to protect our country's ability to provide vulnerable groups in society with the help and support they need. And think, Mr President, that this ambition coincides with the fact that our country also has an increased capacity to help considerably more people in the world through effective aid. It can be argued that the report is not properly prepared and that there are no proper impact assessments. However, compared to how Swedish migration policy has been thought through with impact assessments, the government's report appears to be a shining masterpiece. There may be justified criticism in this context. However, once the government starts to take responsibility for the migration chaos that they and previous governments have contributed to, criticism of the urgency of implementing the report is based on populism. Thus, placard-friendly words such as solidarity and the right to asylum seek to prevent the government from being able to take measures to protect our society from a total collapse in society. I do not think it is particularly problematic to identify the real populism in this House, and it, Mr President, comes today mainly from the Left Party and the Center Party. Although we believe that the measures taken by the government are small steps in the right direction, we have, not uncommonly, more far-reaching proposals. These are proposals that provide a greater guarantee of the main objective, namely to reduce the pressure on asylum and migration against Sweden. And, Mr President, I can say with confidence that our policy in no way provokes a guilty conscience over a lack of solidarity with the world's vulnerable. On the contrary, our policy leads to refugee aid where the need for protection does not need to escape from a tent camp, across the Mediterranean, throughout Europe, into another tent camp. Having said that, I would like to conclude by agreeing with Kent Ekeroth's motion.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-642	Mr President, I would like to This proposal has come at the heart of the ongoing debate on asylum and migration policy, and it also uses migration issues in the argumentation. At the same time, the bill is comprehensive and gives the government general authority. The discussion ends up at several levels at the same time. Apples are mixed with pears, and the arguments are often not about the same things. The first question is whether it is reasonable, in principle, for the government to have such a power in certain emergency situations. It is a completely different matter from the second question, which is whether such a competence should be defended by migration policy arguments. The third question is whether the current migration situation is such that identity checks should be introduced. The proposal mixes the arguments around all these three issues. My own starting point is that we can discuss and justify, on principle, that the government in specified crisis situations can have specific powers, such as making decisions on identity checks. I can therefore see that it is possible to argue in favour of this kind of legislation. On the other hand, I strongly disagree with the use of migration policy arguments for the proposal. I do not share the premises on which the proposal is based or the reasons for introducing ID checks. There is no clear definition of what is meant by serious danger. This makes it a rubber clause, up to each government to interpret. Here too, it is the premise that is the problem. There is not a single word on the impact of ID checks on children's ability to seek asylum and children's ability to reunite with their parents. Neglecting the perspective of children's rights in a legislative case with far-reaching implications for children's access to asylum is unacceptable. It is not just the government's proposal that has shortcomings. The report's proposal is divided into a number of elements on which we vote in turn. Given my principled starting point, the voting order is not the best. That is why I am making this explanation of vote. I deeply dislike the government's bill and the way it has been developed. The current proposal has significant shortcomings which I cannot accept, but at the same time I think it is a wrong signal to vote in favour of a clean rejection. As I am not in a position to submit a request for refusal with my own justification, I will therefore abstain in part 1. It also applies to the rubber clause on danger situations. I believe that the proposals put forward in reservations 3 and 7 are the best attempts to regulate this. I would like to return to the shortcomings from the perspective of children's rights. As the bill is designed, it means that the parliament gives the government a mandate to introduce requirements for ID checks, but it is the government that formulates the regulations on how the ID checks should be carried out. My own view is that neither does reservation 9 go far enough. ID checks should contain special exceptions for all children, whether they travel with their parents or go to Sweden on their own. However, in the vote on reservation 9, the choice between saying yes or refusing to call on the government to include special provisions on children in the regulations stands. To abstain in this vote could be seen as lacking my opinion on the matter. On the contrary, this is an issue which, to me, is of the greatest importance. In the choice between two bad options, I will support the least bad. I will therefore support the reservation in section 7. We know that at the beginning of next year more difficult issues will be decided in the area of asylum policy in this House. I will never let go of the child's perspective. Keeping families together and protecting the youngest and most vulnerable must never give up. I would have preferred to have seen a refusal, but on other premises and, secondly, the changes that I have mentioned here. Against this background, I shall be voting as I have stated here.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-656	Mr President, I would like to I have been listening to the debate here for a number of hours. This morning the tears rose in my eyes when I heard the cynical, racist and hateful attitude of the Swedish Democrats – here in full form through Kent Ekeroth, who presented purely fascist things in his first speech. Then he had the nerve to stand here and say that they presented the addresses of the planned refugee camps for the sake of democracy. Let me say: There are probably very few people who believe in that entrance. The purpose was well stated. What happened, it happened: the refugee camps burned, and they burn every day. Getting people to do such acts is something that should not happen in our country. I regret it with great sadness in my heart. The Swedish Democrats have systematically worked to ensure that people cannot come here and that this country cannot plan for refugee reception. Then Adam Marttinen stood here and claimed that it is for the sake of the elderly and children, while the Swedish Democrats have granted tax reductions of 103 billion in the form of job tax deductions. They make savings of 90 billion on municipalities. They also reject the additional 10 billion to the municipalities decided in this House last week. If anyone denies children or the elderly the care, care and education they need, then it is the Swedish Democrats. Finally, I would just like to say that I have many friends who have fled war and oppression. I have met many people who have done the same. They have been tortured. That is what the debate is about today. What kind of society do we want? How do we view each other as human beings? The debate is about the right – the fundamental democratic right – to be able to apply for asylum. I'm sure we all know people who have been forced to flee. More or less, they are our friends, but we feel they had the right to have their case tried. Now we will prevent other people who have not yet arrived from doing so. I'm very sorry about that. I think that the debate today has been too dehumanised. It has been about technicalities, whether there are problems for transport or whatever it may be. But it's people it's about. Unfortunately, I think this is going to be a shame day for Sweden. The light we've been in the dark is going out now. But I would also like to say that there are many of us who stand up for Sweden to allow the right to seek asylum and for us to see each other as the people and fellow human beings we are. There are many of us who are prepared to continue working for it and to be there for all those who have been forced to come here because they could no longer live their lives in the countries where they wanted to be.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-665	Mr President, I would like to When you burst into arguments you come with a lot of fun epithet that you constantly try to impose on me or my party. Today we were talking about fascist statements. It has to go to some kind of Arnstad definition to get it together. A first question for you, Ulla Andersson, is: Which fascists do you speak about? Is it about the fact that we want immigration that does not allow 500 000 per year? Is it about the fact that we want border controls, which is the duty and duty of each country to have? Is it that we want a proper staffing and that we want to help the transporters manage the ID control? What in this is fascist? I don't think Ulla Andersson has any idea. Then the common thing is that there is a fire in asylum camps. I also said that in my speech. Ulla Andersson was here, and she listened to it. And yet she pretends she didn't hear. According to the police, one third of asylum fires started from within. The other two thirds, we don't know anything about yet. The only people I know have been convicted of the asylum fires are the asylum seekers themselves. But you can of course try to stand here and lie until everyone else believes in it. There is such a tactic, and the Left Party is good at it. As far as tax cuts are concerned, we have done many for a simple reason: it is good for the country, it is good for the economy and it is good for individuals, who have more to move around with. On the other hand, we are against mass immigration because it is bad. This is a priority that we are good at doing but on which the Left Party is bad. So we are removing what is bad and bringing in what is good, and the Left Party is doing the opposite. Ulla Andersson, like all the other mass immigrants, talks about the fact that there are a lot of refugees who come here. No one is fleeing Denmark today. I'm sorry, but it's not that. Today, no one is fleeing Germany. It may have been 50 - 60 years ago, but today it is not. There's no one running from Denmark. You travel from Denmark. There is a huge difference, which the Left Party must begin to understand.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-671	Mr President, I would like to I think we all agree that Kent Ekeroth is not funny. The fact that Kent Ekeroth has a racist and hateful attitude towards fellow humans is something I think many can agree with. People are fleeing war and repression in Syria, Libya, Pakistan, Afghanistan, Iraq and Somalia. What you and your party stand for is to deny them the right – a right that we have signed after World War II – to seek asylum. In your post earlier this morning you said: Not a single person should be allowed in. We're going to launch drones. We'll have gauges in the trucks to measure the carbon dioxide content so that there won't be a human being on the truck. For what if a poor refugee child had been able to sneak into the truck and cross the border against Kent Ekeroth's will! What a terrible time that would have been. You said we should have scanners. We would deploy all the resources we can ever have to guard our borders against the great threat: refugee children and people fleeing war and oppression. Kent Ekeroth! Your party is building a society as fragile as a house built of straw. It is tax cuts, privatisations and huge savings in welfare while protecting venture capitalists and others who are greedy. I think it says most of it. If your party had ruled this country, we wouldn't be able to accept a single human being as fragile as that.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-676	Mr President, I would like to I have to ask the question again: is it really running from Denmark? If you have made your way from Africa or the Middle East throughout Europe, through Austria, through Germany and through Denmark – are you running? What are you running from in Denmark? Is that the puddle sausage? What is it that is so terrible in Denmark that you have to escape from there? There's no reason. According to the right of asylum, you do not have the right to choose the country of asylum. We do not break any rules by sending people back to safe countries, and Denmark is one of them regardless of what Ulla Andersson and others imagine themselves. Ulla Andersson must learn to listen. What did I say in my speeches and my lines? I said two things. Firstly, we want transparency within the passport union in the Nordic countries, including our neighbour Denmark. However, the policy of the Left Party and the other parties in this Parliament for so many years has meant that we now have border controls against Denmark, Norway and large parts of Europe. It is your derailed policy that has led to this situation. It would not have been necessary if we had done what the Swedish Democrats wanted from the outset. Secondly, Ulla Andersson, like many others, the Social Democrats and the Moderates, a line where it seems to be a problem that we control our borders for human trafficking. They don't like controlling vehicles. They don't like controlling human trafficking. How does that make sense? Do you think we should discard that legislation? In order to be able to use human trafficking legislation, we must first and foremost detect those who smuggle. Here is the Left Party and thinks in some way that you should put your head in the sand and that everything will then be fine. If we don't know that people are being smuggled in, they can be smuggled in, it seems. Well, then just go for it. Is it the Left Party's position that Swedish rules and laws should not be enforced and followed? If so, how has the Left Party intended it to happen when it actively does not want us to detect crime? Can you answer that question?
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-682	Mr President, I would like to As far as the Left Party is concerned, it is important to comply with international conventions and the right to seek asylum. I understand that Kent Ekeroth does not think that this is important, but it is quite fundamental in a democratic society where human rights and freedoms should prevail. I don't know if Kent Ekeroth has heard of something called families, but that's many times why people want to come to Sweden and don't want to stay in Denmark. Having one's children, one's wife, one's husband, and one's loved ones with one another is vital in life for all of us. We are human beings, and we have the same need. In order to establish yourself in a new country when you have experienced terrible things, it is absolutely crucial that you can know that your family is safe in the same place. Kent Ekeroth! Your party is a party that, apart from the fact that you want to cut in aid, also wants to cut in welfare. As Sweden grows, we could decide to expand our welfare with one more floor. That's the normal thing to do when your family gets bigger. You build another room in the house or you move to a larger apartment if you have the financial ability. Sweden has the economic capacity, but not Sweden's democrats' Sweden, because there you prefer to just lower taxes and cut in welfare. That's what you do. But you can decide to invest and give people opportunities to establish themselves and get a place to live, education and work. There we put forward concrete proposals, because we think it is essential and important to give people hope and faith in the future in the dark. It is possible if the political will exists. I know it's missing from Kent Ekeroth, but it's with a lot of others.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-687	Ladies and gentlemen! A year ago we were just as now gathered for Christmas. Many of you were then quite new as Members. Now the debates show that the longer the year goes, the warmer your clothes have become. In order for you all Members to be better able to carry out tasks and bring forward the views of your parties, I and the Vice-Presidents are constantly working to give more life to the debates and more focus on your work in Parliament. After the New Year, we will try new forms of Question Time. We are doing this in order to put Members' opportunities to ask questions more at the centre and to give more Members the chance to ask questions. Some examples of the new order are that the questions should be asked from the interpellation bench. That means we'll make a little queue at Question Time. The period of oral Question Time may also be extended if necessary. There will be four participating ministers at each Question Time. The Prime Minister's Question Time is extended to one hour, so that the time for the exchange of views between the Prime Minister and the opposition party leader can be extended. You have, of course, noted changes that we have already made. In the past, it could be several months from the time a topical debate was requested until it actually took place. At that time, there was a great risk that the current debate was no longer so topical when you stood in the Chamber and debated in current debates two months later. It's not like that anymore. I would like to thank the government and the ministers for coming here on short notice and having the current debates during the year. Another example is the voting procedure. Since we removed the part with rising, the votes go faster. I've been looking into how much faster. A common year is the time for votes about 11 hours. Thanks to the removal of the raising procedure, the voting has taken nine and a half hours during this year. We have thus saved an hour and a half just by removing a completely unnecessary moment at the votes.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-692	When you've been in Parliament for a long time, it's nice that things like risings are removed that you've been wondering about for 20 years. Instead, we can spend that time on political debate. The recent debates on areas of expenditure have taken place with the right of free reply. It has brought much more tension to the debate. Sometimes they may have taken a little too long, but it has at least become more tense in the debate. The most important thing is that you should speak in a good way here in Parliament. I would also like to draw attention to something that we do outside the Parliament building itself. Some of you have attended the first presidential dinners that I have moved into the country. It is important that the Swedish Parliament is visible throughout Sweden and not only in Stockholm. The former annual autumn dinner of the President in the House of R Iksdag is therefore transformed into visits to your constituencies around our country. The aim is to highlight the regions' different future issues in cooperation with the county governor. I, or one of the Vice-Presidents, carry out the visit, of course, together with you Members from the constituency. Ladies and gentlemen! We still have some debates to look forward to in this House before Christmas. However, I would like to take this opportunity right now to extend warm thanks to all of you for your good work in the past autumn. I would also like to thank the Vice-Presidents. I would like to thank the group leaders and members of the parliamentary board for their very good cooperation. I would like to thank the Director of Parliament and the Riksdag Administration for a job well done. I wish you all a Merry Christmas and Happy New Year!
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-699	Mr President, I would like to I would like to wish Mr President and his family a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year from all of us.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-701	Mr President, I would like to Christian Holm Barenfeld has asked me what I and the government have done, what I and the government are doing and what I and the government intend to do in the future to ensure that Sweden can continue to operate for the whole country so important airport operations locally and regionally, and whether I and the government believe that such important regional airports should continue to exist in the future. First of all, let me emphasise once again my view that regional airports play an important role in both business and private transport opportunities. This is particularly true in those parts of the country that are sparsely populated, have long transport distances and where alternative transport opportunities are limited. I think I have answered the question which Christian Barenfeld put last in his interpellation.
i-2n9v5dChKhcKFMdNcR3Uu5	As of 1 February 2015, State compensation under these two Regulations can only be granted and paid to non-State airports where a service of general economic interest is carried out in accordance with EU rules on aid in the form of compensation for services of general economic interest. It is the Finnish Transport Agency that has the task of managing the payments of state compensations to non-governmental airports according to the regulations I mentioned earlier. The task is also to verify that State aid to non-State airports is paid in accordance with EU State aid rules in the form of compensation for services of general economic interest. As regards Christian Barenfeld's questions about what the government and I have done and are doing for regional airports, I would like to mention that work is under way within the Government Office to review whether further changes are needed in the regulations I mentioned earlier, i.e. the regulation on operating grants to non-governmental airports and the regulation on regional transport infrastructure planning. It is my ambition that we have a regulatory framework that is stable and sustainable in the long term and that allows the state to continue to contribute to the financing of regional non-governmental airports if necessary.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-706	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Infrastructure, for the answer to my interpellation! It touches on an important issue of a fundamental part of our infrastructure, namely aviation and regional airports. That we have a good infrastructure is a necessity for jobs to grow, for companies to be able to start and continue to be established and for people to live, live and develop throughout Sweden. Sweden is a large country with long distances and relatively small population, which makes us dependent on all modes of transport. We need a good road network, because in many cases we depend on cars, buses and lorries to transport both ourselves and goods. Rail and working rail services are also important, and we need developed shipping, but of course also aviation. When distances are long, the latter mode of transport is particularly important. We have 34 regional airports in Sweden, two of which are profitable. The others are in need of support. In order to obtain this support under existing EU legislation, airports must invoke so-called SGEI criteria – services of general and economic interest, i.e. services of general and economic interest – in order not to have to apply EU guidelines that make public aid impossible. This is where the problem arises. There seems to be a poor understanding within the EU of both Sweden's and aviation's conditions. After all, we have a need to maintain air connections on which it is not always possible to make a profit. There are differences in conditions in different countries. Sweden certainly has many similarities with other countries, whether they are small countries such as Luxembourg, the Netherlands and Austria or larger countries such as Germany. But the differences are also great. The Netherlands has twice as many inhabitants but is only a fraction as large as Sweden. Germany is large and has almost ten times as many inhabitants as Sweden. The EU's regulatory framework is – and should be so – at the core of ensuring that we do not have unhealthy competition, in this case between airports that are very close to each other and have the same catchment area. But these are challenges that Sweden does not face at all. The State-owned airports, owned by Swedavia, make a profit. They make a profit of around 1.2 billion a year, while regional airports leave a deficit of 800 million. This means an operating net of SEK 400 million. In addition, all this has not been included in the calculations for the rest of the country. Of our ten state-owned airports, Arlanda and Landvetter – especially Arlanda – are basically the ones that generate profits. However, regional airports also play a role in profit because they feed traffic to these airports – both transfer traffic and traffic to their respective locations. There are many demands that impose costs on our airports. The Finnish Transport Agency has its own rules, the Swedish Transport Agency has its own rules and the EU has its own rules. Today, however, it is mainly the SGEI criteria we are discussing, that is, the EU acquis and the possibilities of receiving the necessary support to continue to operate. I am therefore somewhat concerned by the Government's response, partly to the interpellation and partly to a question I asked at a Question Time a couple of weeks ago. I would like to clarify my questions to the Minister for Infrastructure. What have Anna Johansson and the government done to ensure that Sweden can continue to operate the airport business that is so important for the whole country locally and regionally? And what is being done more concretely – more than the ongoing work in the Government Office – to demonstrate to the EU our specific conditions and the reasonableness that we have specific reasons?
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-718	Mr President, I would like to I would like to reiterate that the government fully agrees with Christian Barenfeld that regional airport activities are important. It is important for you to be able to live and work throughout the country. Therefore, the State also allocates State aid resources to those airports that are not commercially viable but are essential to the functioning of society. For the next financial year, the government will set aside the same amount as we set aside for the current year. Therefore, there is no question as to whether the State should continue to provide this aid to airports. What has been a problem in 2015 is that, in April of this year, new regulations were introduced in the European Union that we must, of course, relate to. In the gap between the old and the new regulations, questions have arisen as to how airports and their owners and the Finnish Transport Agency will act in order for the aid to be paid. Now I have been informed that all the airports concerned will have received or will be informed today that the aid for 2015 will be paid before the end of the year. The Finnish Transport Agency estimates that next year the problems that have existed in 2015 will be resolved. It has adapted to the new regulatory framework in 2015 and will therefore not have the same problem of ensuring that the airports concerned are eligible. It is also the case that if the Finnish Transport Administration were to pay out money to airports which subsequently prove not to meet the SGEI criteria, it is not the State that is affected by it, but it is the individual airport that will then be liable for repayment. How to act on the actual payment and how to assess whether an airport meets the criteria is not handled in the government, but it is the Finnish Transport Administration that has the authority for this. I have received with great pleasure the information that the Swedish Transport Administration has now straightened out the remaining question marks and that all airports will thus have their compensation paid before the end of the year. I hope that the honourable Member will also be pleased.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-726	Mr President, I would like to I am, of course, delighted if this is paid out. I think it is important – and I hope that the government also thinks so – that we have a government that is active at EU level to promote Sweden's meaning and endeavour to gain support for our opinion. We simply need to make Europe realise that aviation is a service of general economic interest here in Sweden with our regional airports. We have had the situation that the Finnish Transport Agency has also investigated these criteria on behalf of the Government, which has resulted in charges at different airports. This, too, further increases and complicates processes. As I understand it, it is not in line with the EU's mission, but is something that the European Commission itself should do. Swedish courts and authorities do not really have the legal right to do this. Another issue that is reasonable to address in terms of this support is that it is reasonable if one is measured by the same yardstick, although we may have different conditions. Of course, we know what costs we have for operating airport operations. There is a great deal of difference between Sweden and other countries. With us, virtually everything that has to do with airports and air traffic is landing at the airport companies in particular. In addition to the usual staff with uniforms that we think of, this can range from emergency services with fire trucks via air traffic control services and flight towers to guarding. These are costs that are not always borne by airports in other countries. We have snow clearance and deportation, which you may not have much of in Greece, Italy and Spain. Yet it is the total cost that counts. If a country can refrain from rescue services in this respect while in Sweden it is burdening the airport, it will be comparatively very difficult for a Swedish airport to make these profits. It is therefore important that we say to the European Union that this is our cost and that this is how we count. What else is the alternative? This is not something that concerns Swedavia and the state airports. There are of course many ways to get around this, but it is good if we can conduct a serious airport business without having to work with creative accounting or merge airlines with other companies to avoid losses. What is the government's active work at this stage to make Europe understand our situation? Örnsköldsvik Airport does not compete with Karlstad Airport or Malmö Airport, and they do not have the same catchment area. This is an important part of our infrastructure. It is very important that we demonstrate it.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-732	Mr President, I would like to The legislation we have in Sweden on this, the regulations that I mentioned in my reply, are exactly in accordance with the EU acquis. This means that there is really no reason to change the regulatory framework or to push the issue towards the EU. We have the possibility, in accordance with existing EU legislation, to provide State aid to regional airports as long as they can demonstrate that they belong to the circle of services of general economic interest, i.e. meet the SGEI criteria. The problem in 2015 has been and still is that it has moved from one regulatory framework to another. Then there are other issues that can be discussed regarding the costs that should be charged to the individual airport and which costs should be recorded elsewhere. This is partly another discussion. The problem in 2015 has been that the Finnish Transport Administration, which is the authority responsible for assessing whether an airport is eligible, has found it difficult to find the right place in terms of whether airports provide the required information and whether the owners take the necessary measures. As I said during the day, I have been informed that all airports will receive or have already been informed by the Finnish Transport Administration that they will have this money paid out. I therefore find it a little difficult to see that the problem would remain. Then, as I said, there are other issues to be discussed. This is now being done within the framework of the Government's work on the aviation strategy, which will also highlight the conditions for regional and local airports. However, the urgent question is about the possibility of paying out State aid, and there is no longer any risk that this could not happen, as I understand it.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-736	Mr President, I would like to Basically, I believe and hope that we do not want very different things. I hope that the Social Democrats, as well as the Moderates and the Alliance, think it important that we have these airports. One thing is state aid. I guess it's two airports that run privately. Others are run in other ways through regions, municipalities and so on and receive cost recovery from there as well. We had a seminar here in the Riksdag last week with Swedish Regional Airports and others, and there they discussed this. Now, too, SKL has become involved in the matter, as this is crucial for too many airports. Hopefully this is going well, but at this point it is important to get the EU to see that we meet these criteria, and it has turned out that this is not always easy. There, both the industry and others can be involved and work, but in the case of the European Commission and other institutions, the government has a special position with an extra good, large and important opportunity to influence. I hope that we will soon be able to get a clear message from the European Union that it is not a problem to operate our airports in their current form and also be able to provide support. It is possibly unreasonable to believe that airports could generate direct economic benefits, although it would of course be very desirable. If we are to be realistic, it is likely so. If we can reduce deficits, that's a very good start.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-740	Mr President, I would like to I must say that I do not quite understand the discussion. There is no question from the European Commission about the system and model that we have chosen for state aid – or public aid, perhaps one should say. The EU makes no distinction between state aid and municipal or regional aid. What we have done is that we have adjusted our legislation so that, from 2015, we will provide state aid to airports based on the SGEI criteria and in no other way. The Finnish Transport Administration's announcement that the aid will be paid to all the airports concerned before the end of the year is a clear statement that it makes the assessment that this is in accordance with EU State aid rules. I find it difficult to understand what would still be a problem in this regard. Could it be necessary for us to make further changes to regulations in order for this to work satisfactorily in the future? As I said, there is a preparatory work going on in the Government Office where you look over if there is a need for that kind of change. The future of regional airports is generally part of the government's aviation strategy. That question will be highlighted there. However, according to the information I have received, the urgent threat to the financial position of airports for the current year must be averted. I hope that message has now reached the honourable Member as well.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-743	Mr President, I would like to Anette Åkesson has asked the Minister for Enterprise and Innovation what measures he intends to take to mitigate the negative effects on jobs and regional growth that the government announced proposals to close the Öresund Bridge will have. The work within the government is so divided that it is I who should answer these questions. The Government has submitted to the Riksdag on 9 December 2015 a proposal for a law that mandates the Government to provide regulations on identity checks for transport by bus, train or passenger ship to Sweden from another state. The legislative proposal to mandate the Government to provide for the closure of roads or other stages is not included in the legislative proposal.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-745	Mr President, I would like to At first I would like to thank the Minister for Infrastructure for the answer, but I think she has made it a little easy. It was with dismay that one heard of the government's proposal the other week to be able to close the Öresund Bridge. I know that the proposal has been put on ice for the time being. However, the damage has already been done to some extent and, moreover, since it remains a latent threat, I still think that this debate is urgent. I want to give you some facts about Skåne. Skåne has just under 1.3 million inhabitants and a strong population development compared to Sweden as a whole. Barely 40 per cent of Sweden's import value and about 28 per cent of the export value passes through the southern Swedish border crossings. In 2013, 30 million tonnes of goods were transported via Scanian ports, and another 10 million tonnes of goods were transported via the Öresund Bridge. An analysis by Ramböll for Region Skåne shows a clear redistribution between 2003 and 2013 from railway ferries to the Öresund Bridge. If ferry services should eventually stop, we are completely dependent on the Öresund bridge for international transport by rail. In the report produced by the OECD on Region Skåne's mission, it becomes clear that there are many things that are going well in Skåne. For example, Skåne is one of Europe's most innovative regions with a well-educated population and classified as a knowledge and technology hub. But there are real challenges to be addressed. For example, the growth rate is lower than in the Stockholm region, and the employment rate is the lowest among Sweden's counties. Therefore, Skåne is under-performing in terms of economic performance per capita, and therefore the integrated labour market in Öresund is important. It represents a significant increase in the number of jobs for Skåne's workforce. The Öresund Bridge is a prerequisite for this integration. Skåne and Sweden managed to capture the joint European neutron research facility ESS to Lund. What arguments did Sweden use to get some sixty partners from around the world to invest SEK 13 billion in something that will mean a lot for future workplaces? It was fierce competition, and Lund was only one of many candidates in most countries. But it was considered to be Lund's strategic location in the Öresund region with a good transport and logistics network that decided. But ESS has a Swedish-Danish hostship. An important part of ESS's business, Data Management Center, is located in Copenhagen, i.e. daily communication between Lund and Copenhagen is crucial for the business. Companies have increasingly started to invest in Skåne. In 2014, Skåne succeeded better than Stockholm in the national compilation of investments and export transactions throughout the country. It is important for jobs and development in Skåne, but also for Sweden. Skåne has started to be seen as a rice star from business perspectives, among other things. However, companies' calculations count on access to the entire Öresund region as labour market and commercial area, Copenhagen as the nearest capital city and Kastrup as their international airport. With the uncertainty posed by a threat of possible closure of the Öresund Bridge, the threat itself may affect future investments. One should not underestimate the signals the outside world perceives when Swedish and Danish governments are building walls and threatening over and above one, than the other. I and many others are curious about what the government's analyses have shown. I therefore ask the Minister for Infrastructure: what are the consequences of a possible closed Öresundsbro? What does it mean for future investments and jobs in Skåne and thereby Sweden?
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-754	Mr President, I would like to We fully agree on the importance of a strong Öresund region and Skåne's importance for Sweden's growth and development. However, the interpellation debate is not about Skåne's significance but about the possible consequences of closing the Öresund bridge. There is no proposal from the Government to the Riksdag to obtain such authorisation. That is why this is purely speculative. I refer to the fact that there is no such proposal.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-755	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that the Minister for Infrastructure is positive about Skåne. But the fact is that the threat is pronounced, and so there is. Moreover, the reasoning is not quite connected. The fact that the number of asylum seekers is now a major challenge in Swedish municipalities, most of us agree, as well as that the influx of the large number that comes in a very short time therefore needs to decrease. However, the measures taken must be reasonable and proportionate to the problem they are going to solve. The introduction of temporary border controls and identity checks is unfortunately a necessary evil for a period of time. Hopefully it is possible to solve the problem as smoothly as possible and only becomes temporary so that travellers and commuters are not affected. When it comes to being able to stop vehicle traffic on the Öresund Bridge – which was proposed, but which has not been proposed to Parliament – I find it difficult to see how it would have the consequence that you are looking for. It's not in the car the asylum seekers come mostly. It is the accumulated number of asylum seekers, while we find it difficult to deal with the problem, not the influx of a single day. It's like shooting mosquitoes with cannons. Since it seems that Stockholmers and Gothenburgers find it difficult to understand the importance of the bridge, I have thought about what you can compare the bridge with. Maybe it's limping a little. But for a Stockholmer it would be like closing the E4 north of Märsta and thereby cutting the connection to Arlanda and the work commuting opportunities between Stockholm and Uppsala. From the Gothenburg perspective, which may be more relevant to the Minister for Infrastructure, it corresponds to shutting down road 40 before Landvetter. Yeah, it's totally ridiculous, isn't it? Now it may be easier to understand why we are upset. The Öresund Bridge is not to be seen as a bridge but as the usual way to work and to the flight. Some irony lies in the fact that, at the same time as the Hallandsås tunnel is finally being inaugurated, and its importance not least for the labour market is being praised, the development of another major infrastructure project is under threat. On the Öresund Bridge we have control of the flow via cameras, as opposed to if it should start smuggling people in boats along the Swedish coasts. In addition, there is an agreement between Denmark and Sweden on police cooperation on the bridge that is striving to combat illegal immigration and cross-border crime, to safeguard public order and security, and to maintain effective law enforcement. Why does the government consider it a proportionate measure to be able to close the Öresund Bridge to vehicle traffic only with reference to increased migratory flows when the problem actually concerns long-term large migratory flows? Why do the governments of Denmark and Sweden not cooperate together to find a solution that does not affect the borders between our Nordic countries?
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-762	Mr President, I would like to There is no proposal to close the Öresund bridge from the government. Therefore, the questions are irrelevant. There is no such proposal at Parliament's table and no request from the government to obtain this authorisation. That is my answer to this question.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-763	Mr President, I would like to I am well aware that there is no proposal. But there was a council referral, and that's bad enough. It would still be interesting to know how the government assesses the consequences of a closure and only the threat of closing the Öresund Bridge for future investments in Skåne. The Chamber of Commerce and Industry of South Sweden has estimated that closing the Öresund Bridge would cost about 1 billion a day. That sum can of course be discussed, but from the government we have not received any evidence that shows otherwise. For 1 billion a day, many asylum seekers can be dealt with. Looking at the long-term effects of increased uncertainty in terms of reduced investments, fewer jobs and thus lower growth for Sweden, we realise that the threat of closing the Öresund Bridge already has harmful economic consequences. One editorial called the threat of being able to close the Öresund Bridge this week a negotiation argument in relation to Denmark. I really hope that's not how the government thinks. The Öresund Bridge contributes to more jobs, more trade, and it is a prerequisite for many investments and thus further growth. The bridge is the usual way to work for many people, and how to easily get to a shopping round or pleasant evening in Copenhagen or Malmö. It corresponds to a combination of the E4 to Uppsala with the train to Arlanda for a Stockholmer and road 40 to Landvetter, Borås and Stockholm for a Gothenburger. No, don't even threaten to close the Öresund Bridge. We need an open Skåne, and there are several other possible measures for the concrete problems that need to be addressed without harming Skåne and Sweden in the long term. I would like to thank the Minister for Infrastructure for this debate.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-768	Mr President, I would like to There is no government proposal. There's no government bill. There is no request from the Government for an authorisation from the Riksdag to close the Öresund Bridge in emergency situations. There is no such proposal. The answer to the question is that it is not a threat. There are no such proposals.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-769	Mr President, I would like to Anette Åkesson has asked me why I and the government are launching a new action programme instead of building on what is already successfully under way in the form of the Welfare Academy. As I have pointed out before, one of the government's top priorities is to break the trend of rising sick leave and to stabilise it. Action is needed on a broad front and by different actors. The Government's action programme therefore includes measures for the Social Insurance Agency as well as employers and health care. The government has identified seven areas that need to be developed and where action needs to be taken. The talks that the government is conducting with the social partners are important here, for example. Försäkringskassan has a central and extremely important role in reducing sick leave. The urgent work initiated by the Agency to reduce the number of sick leave is continuing. Försäkringskassan has now made the assessment that this work can be done more effectively in other ways than through the Swedish National Welfare Academy and has on its own initiative chosen to phase out the academy and target all its resources to the core business. There are shortcomings in Försäkringskassan's investigation and assessment work in the health insurance management. The Government has today, in line with the Government's action programme, decided to instruct Försäkringskassan to strengthen its management in order to achieve a well-functioning sick leave process. This requires that the Authority now takes a strong stance and removes identified shortcomings. The correct application of the rules and good interaction with stakeholders are essential for the proper functioning of health insurance.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-774	Mr President, I would like to At first, I would like to thank the Government for its answer. Breaking the trend with the rising sickness absence is of course important. It would have been a priority regardless of which government had ruled Sweden. The Alliance government acted strongly and successfully with several measures. The increased absenteeism is worrying, both for the individual and for society. Although absenteeism is increasing from historically low figures in 2010, the trend is very worrying. The problem, of course, becomes even more acute for an S-MP government which abolishes the longer time limit in health insurance and thus opens up for further cost increases. This will mean that money may be taken from other sources. Exactly where they are to be taken has not yet been revealed. There are certainly points that are relevant in the action programme, such as analyses of sick leave practices and the economic drivers. It is positive that S and MP also realise that economic demands and incentives have an effect on sickness absence. But these are measures that, at best, will have a long-term effect. Otherwise, I see that it is mostly about further measures in the so-called drain pipes. Each of the different actors shall work for itself. Of course it can produce results, but not as good as if this is done through collaboration. At the same time, both the answer given to me and the action programme raise several new questions. The Social Insurance Agency is said to be one of the most important actors and is given more resources in the budget. But almost directly in connection with the allocation of additional funds, Försäkringskassan interrupts the development project in which, in collaboration with several major actors among several issues, it worked on exactly what the government wants to overcome in its action programme. It is interrupted by the need to prioritise its resources, and it is interrupted abruptly and unilaterally in a way that does not directly inspire confidence in the partners it has had. It is obvious that collaboration with different parties is important and that the Social Insurance Agency plays a central role. But what does the Minister of Social Security mean about the Social Insurance Agency being able to work more efficiently than through the National Welfare Academy? It changes its own resources by including partners in the financing process. How, concretely, would that happen? And the obvious question is asked: Does the Government know the Academy of Welfare at all?
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-779	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Anette Åkesson, for the post! I can assure Anette Åkesson that I know the Academy of Welfare well. It is a limited financial effort of about 6 million that was made by Försäkringskassan. What the government now adds to Försäkringskassan is 250 million more annually to strengthen the treatment at the early deadlines in the rehabilitation chain. It is of course the case that the Swedish Social Insurance Agency, as an independent authority, is responsible for its own organisation and the decisions that result from it. Försäkringskassan has made the decision, which is that you now need to use time, energy and resources to strengthen your core business. That is, of course, very urgent. I took over as Minister of Social Security in the autumn of 2014. Since 2010, sickness rates had increased by nearly 50 per cent. At the same time, at the same time, the trials at the early deadlines in the rehabilitation chain, i.e. the time limits for de facto testing the individual's work capacity and assessing which efforts need to be made of a rehabilitation nature, had fallen. It had fallen radically during the last term of the bourgeois government. This is very serious, because it means that many people have fallen through the rehabilitation chain and landed in one of your 100 000 insurance policies, which you managed to achieve in parallel with not being able to maintain the early deadlines in health insurance. Yes, the effort that the government is now making to strengthen these elements is definitely needed. The package of measures now presented by the government is much more comprehensive than the National Academy of Welfare, as Anette Åkesson well knows. These are 25 different measures in seven different areas, several of which are located at Försäkringskassan. It is about Försäkringskassan to develop support for employers. It is about the Social Insurance Agency to develop the workplace-related support that the bourgeois government introduced and which has not worked very well. This involves, among other things, developing procedures for identifying employers who in one way or another fail in their rehabilitation work. The Social Insurance Agency has now to do. It is a question of trying to counter the situation which has arisen during the last term of office of the bourgeois government. Anette Åkesson! Försäkringskassan's decision on the Swedish National Welfare Academy is a decision that the authority itself has at its disposal. But it is now important for Försäkringskassan to focus on strengthening the core business and legal certainty in the assessments that the agency has to make.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-787	Mr President, I would like to The Alliance managed very well to bring down the sickness figures. I do not have any diagrams with me, but I know that colleagues of mine have shown in the past that they fell significantly during the first term of office. It fell from historically high figures in 2006 to 2010. Then, unfortunately, it went back up again. I'm glad the Minister for Social Security knows about the Academy of Welfare, but then this gets even weirder. Any listeners certainly do not know it. That's why I thought I'd briefly tell you what the Academy of Welfare is. It is thus a project that was started by the Director General of Försäkringskassan in summer 2014. The need for the academy was assessed on the basis that current and future welfare challenges, in view of population development and immigration, will require innovation and collaboration over the drain pipes. The Welfare Academy brings together researchers and practitioners, labour market actors and various authorities with a focus on innovation, creativity and applicability of new knowledge and technology. The work in subject-focused networks was intended to create meeting places that stimulate innovation and knowledge transfer. The focus areas chosen to improve and speed up the processes were prevention of sick leave from working life and establishment in the labour market for newly arrived and disabled people. In addition to Försäkringskassan, Skandia, Svensk Försäkring, Migrationsverket, Arbetsförmedlingen, Arbetsmiljöverket, Forte, Sveriges Kommuner och Landsting, LO, Saco, researchers from the universities of Linköping, Uppsala, Umeå, Gothenburg and Lund, Luleå University of Technology, Karolinska Institutet and Linnaeus University, The Swedish Agency for Youth and Civil Society, Alpha CE and SAS. The work was intended to run from 2016 to 2018 with the aim of lifting all the stones that can increase the innovation power in the welfare system both in breadth and depth. The fact that research and practice work closely together means that knowledge and experience are used in an optimal way. You take advantage of and implement successful methods and ways of working. It is important to develop the welfare system from a holistic perspective in order to achieve both the best effect for individuals and society as well as long-term sustainability. In addition, the various partners also contributed resources, which means that the relatively limited money spent by the Swedish Social Insurance Agency was exchanged several times. They also participated in an international network of similar projects in Norway, Finland, Canada and Australia, where most of them have been engaged in this work for a few years. Sweden thus had a unique opportunity to gain access to experience and knowledge gained elsewhere in the world. It is incredible to me that this cooperation should be interrupted. It is also interrupted in a way that allows most of the partners you have had to consider both once and twice if they want to cooperate with Försäkringskassan again. Now it is the case that the work has been partly taken over by other actors, so a certain Swedish connection to Sweden will exist. But the – also by the government – designated central actor Försäkringskassan will not be involved. This means that you stay out of the urgent work that is going on, even internationally, and work in your own drainpipe. I find this deeply regrettable. Since this project, with a focus on finding cross-functional solutions and overcoming the obstacles that exist in the form of pit sprays, provided an effective way to overcome tangible challenges such as sickness absence, newly arrived and disabled people and provided an opportunity to find and use new ways of working in an area that really needs it, it is not least from a taxpayer's perspective urgent to find out how, more specifically, the government intends to act.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-795	Mr President, I would like to I must again be very clear to Anette Åkesson that the Swedish Social Insurance Agency, as an independent authority, owns its own organisation. So it is not the case that the government goes in and directs the Social Insurance Agency in detail, but we give it a mandate. If the Authority makes the assessment that the resources it has now need to be better used to deal with the situation that has partly arisen during the period of the bourgeois government, and therefore closes a development project such as the Academy of Welfare, it is of course the Authority's own decision to do so. The government is of no other opinion than that authorities should prioritise and use their resources in the way they themselves assess is as effective as possible. This is one such decision Försäkringskassan has taken in this situation. However, it is not the case that a limited investment in a development project is the only cooperation the Swedish Social Insurance Agency has with different actors, whether it be employers, trade unions or for that matter various different companies, healthcare and other authorities. Rather, it is very much something that has been discussed in connection with the action programme that the government has now presented and which, as Anette Åkesson also hears, is very extensive. It is a question of cooperation with other authorities as well as other actors being crucial to curbing the flow of health insurance and to be able to continue working effectively. I think it is very important that when you listen to Anette Åkesson it is clear that it is really resources of different parity that we stand and discuss. We are talking about a limited development project that I, as Minister of Social Security, naturally have full respect for Anette Åkesson's appeal, but it is definitely not the same as the fact that the Social Insurance Agency does not cooperate with different actors. As recently as today, the government launched a reformed agreement with the Swedish Municipalities and County Council on the order of 1.5 billion, which is about, among other things, increased coordination between healthcare, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency and employers. So I think we need to be quite clear about the scale of these things, as well as the challenge we are actually facing right now. I would also like to respond to something Anette Åkesson said at the beginning of her speech. She referred to the efforts of the bourgeois government to reduce sick leave during the last parliamentary term. Yes, I agree that when the bourgeois government took over in 2006, the decline in sickness rates that had already taken place since 2003 continued during the first term of the bourgeois government. It was partly because it worked effectively on the early deadlines of health insurance, thus making a correct assessment of people's work capacity and the efforts needed to come back. What then happened during the second term of office was that it relied on a more distant deadline that did not work. 100 000 people were insured while sickness rates rose by 50 per cent. I just want us to be very clear when we talk about the development of sick leave.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-802	Mr President, I would like to I would like to come back to this with the National Academy of Welfare, because it was just about the magnitude. The positive thing about the Swedish Academy of Welfare was that it was so low costs and so good effect. Welfare faces major challenges, both in the short and long term. Many dream of finding new, innovative ways to work in collaboration between public Sweden, research and industry to find effective solutions for these challenges. Collaboration is the key word, but then how do you proceed? The former Director General of Försäkringskassan and some of the employees succeeded in this in the project Vällskapsakademien. Research shows that precisely this approach, that is to say that people are met by coordinated and cross-functional solutions, is crucial to the legitimacy of welfare systems. The Academy of Welfare managed to engage, and all participants were ready to drive from the turn of the year because they believed in the concept. Everyone was prepared to invest in a way that had benefited Swedish workers, newly arrived and disabled – and thus society at large. Instead, the project is abandoned abruptly. That it is closed by Försäkringskassan, I confess. The Swedish Academy of Welfare could also be a role model and knowledge base for similar necessary work with innovation and implementation in other areas of welfare. I would like to thank the Government for the debate, but I believe that many questions remain. It is simply impossible to understand why the Academy of Welfare is being shut down or what the government is thinking. Furthermore, I believe that it is the Minister for Social Security who bears overall responsibility for the fact that the Social Insurance Agency is not working further in the way that would have produced the best results on the basis of the resources allocated.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-807	Mr President, I would like to I thank Anette Åkesson for this. Now I think you should be very careful that the National Academy of Welfare was in a start-up phase. This means that any effects on any of the issues Anette Åkesson listed in her speech have not been measured at all. On the other hand, there has been a well-established discussion about whether this or a further development of the Welfare Academy is something that is part of Försäkringskassan's core mission as an authority to operate. I have nothing whatsoever against the intentions of the National Academy of Welfare; on the contrary, I should say that I think it is both good and exciting – and also fortunate – that parts of that work are now being taken forward by other actors. But I also have a great deal of respect for the Social Insurance Fund's position at this point. Perhaps you should see that the Social Insurance Agency is not the actor who should host this kind of work. I think you have to understand that. Then I am particularly taken, I have to say, when Anette Åkesson asks me whether it is the case that I have some kind of responsibility to find other measures that can now work in the direction that the Welfare Academy had as its purpose. We are still talking about a limited development project at Försäkringskassan. We are talking about about 6 million and a few employees who were involved in this. The government has presented a broad programme of measures to address several of the issues that the Emin had to deal with. It concerns seven different areas and 25 different measures, which will involve all 13 000 employees at Försäkringskassan – and others.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-810	Mr President, I would like to Anette Åkesson has asked the Minister for Finance if she thinks it is reasonable that a working life pays so badly after you retire. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. Just as Anette Åkesson says, the benefits of an entire working life measured in retirement are not always so great. It is important to point out that for the vast majority of people more work provides more pension. Pensioners for whom more work does not always have a significant impact on pensions are those who have both income and guarantee pensions. However, although the benefits in retirement are not necessarily high, the benefits of working over the whole of your life are considerably greater. There is a big difference between having one's own income during life before retirement and not having it. However, as the issue relates to pensions, I would also like to discuss the inherent contradiction with having good basic protection, while, of course, it should pay to work even in terms of pensions. In Sweden, we have long been committed to ensuring that even the weaker groups in society can have a reasonable income. For pensions, this means that basic protection needs to be at a reasonable level that can also be lived on, as it is today. As a result, a fairly high level of earnings-based pension must be earned before the total pension after tax is particularly higher than the basic level of protection. Inevitably, there is a built-in conflict between the objective of making work pay and the objective of good basic protection. What, then, is the solution to this problem? The alternatives we face are either to lower the basic level of protection or to increase the pension contribution. We already have a discussion today about the fact that there are many older people, mainly women, who have a low pension. These are groups that have a large part of the guarantee pension and often also the housing supplement. Lowering basic protection would mean that these people, who already have relatively low incomes, would receive even lower pensions. I don't see that as a solution. An increase in pension contributions, on the other hand, would result in work paying more in terms of pensions. As we all know, the Moderates have been part of the pension agreement since the 1990s, and both the amount of the pension contribution and the structure and level of the guarantee pension are part of this agreement. For some years now, we have been looking at the functioning of the pension system within the framework of the mandate of the Pension Group to care for the pension system. The pension system needs to be continuously monitored to ensure that it works in a changing society and that it is well rigged even in its details, including the level of contributions.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-816	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for Social Security for his reply. That was an interesting argument about the conflict. But my idea with the interpellation was rather to go into how to increase the cake so that all groups win, not that you divide the same amount where one loses and one wins. Since 1999, we have the current public pension system. The goal was that it would be financially stable and fair in the long term over the generations. The basic idea has been to pay no more than you get into the system, and many countries envy us that we have managed to reform the pension system so that it can cope with demographic change. Let us just hope that the adjustments that have taken place and will take place do not change the basic idea too much. It is easier to think short-sightedly and listen to current pensioners than to think long-term and to think about those who are young today and who may not always pay attention to the consequences of these changes for them at some point in the future. Both current and future pensioners benefit from more hours of work. Most people are aware of that. Therefore, what was called the Alliance's work line should not be very controversial. The focus should be on good education, on young and newcomers getting into work faster, on older people staying longer in the labour market and on the fact that there are carrots to work rather than not to work. However, the S-MP is pursuing a policy of pretending that it is not knowing that it was precisely reforms that, in particular, the job tax deductions, the RUT deductions, the lower employers' contributions for young and older people, and the social security reform that contributed significantly to the increase in the number of jobs and hours worked. From the S-MP government, rhetorical efforts are being made to ensure that the Alliance, perhaps mainly the Moderates, destroys for the sick and pensioners when the alliance policy, as experts call successful, actually intends to manage the long-term financing of precisely the social protection on which many weak people in society depend. The S-MP takes the lighter and more short-term position as they expect that those affected in the future do not understand the link between the political decisions taken now, this term of office in the years 2014 to 2018, and the problems that will be worse from the mid-2020s than they would have needed to be. We would have had enough of the challenges in terms of population development with increased life expectancy. The S-MP budget will take effect from the end of the year. It is a budget that already says in itself that it reduces the number of jobs if it is implemented. So the S-MP cannot pretend that they are not aware of it. Ninety per cent of tax increases of approximately SEK 40 billion hit jobs and growth. Eight out of ten Swedish households are getting worse with S-MP's policy in the short term.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-821	Mr President, I would like to We note that the bourgeois government left behind an unemployment rate of around 8 per cent, a youth unemployment rate of around 25 per cent and a deficit of about 75 billion which the current government has had to deal with in the last year and a half. We can also note that the situation as it is right now in Sweden is that the development is positive and goes like the train – perhaps not the train but more like a well charged Tesla, to quote the Minister of Finance. Sweden is doing well. Employment is increasing. Youth unemployment and unemployment are falling significantly. Growth looks good. The forecasts for the future also look good. The pessimism that Anette Åkesson paints in the speaker's chair about the company's willingness to invest and the other images are not correct. But I am not standing here as Minister of Finance, but I am standing here as Minister of Social Security today. Anette Åkesson has asked questions about the pension system. I was a little surprised by the wording of the interpellation, but I understand now that Anette Åkesson was actually looking for a different debate from that on the pension system. As I said in my interpellation response, the Moderates were involved in designing the pension system that exists today and that we have agreed on for a long time. We have agreed on the importance of having a pension system that stimulates work, which is also the objective of this government – as Anette Åkesson well knows. It is about more hours worked in the Swedish economy. We will work on reducing unemployment. This is how we build Sweden strong. If there are pensions we are going to discuss, I would like to address the joint work that is now going on in the Pensions Group. The Moderates participate well. It is about looking back in the pension system and now 15 years later stating whether it has turned out as we intended. What do we see? One of the things we can see is what Anette Åkesson talks about, namely the difference between basic protection and the fact that what you get after an entire working life is not enough. Above all, this issue is about women. Women dominate in the group we are talking about here and are those who are most affected, that is, those who have a combination of guarantee pension and income pension. Almost half of the women who retire today have such a situation. What contributes most to this is the fact that women participate in the labour force considerably less than men do, women work much more part-time and women continue to have a significantly lower wage development. With bearing on the debate that Anette Åkesson and I had earlier, we have the fact that women's health is worse than men's. This means that they are more away from the labour market. We have jointly taken on this in the Pensions Group. We have very ambitious work in seven areas at present. We look at how we can improve the situation in the short term, especially for women. We are looking at the pension system to see what we can do here and now, but also what we need to do in the long term, not least when it comes to gender equality in the labour market and increasing the conditions for women's participation in the labour market.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-829	Mr President, I would like to The economy is going well. This is largely due to the Alliance's budget, as the Minister for Social Security is aware. In view of what the Minister for Social Security said at the outset, I would like to say that, as usual, the Social Democrats are trying to ignore the fact that during the last parliamentary term we had a financial crisis that affected the number of jobs and so on. Nevertheless, the Alliance managed to create 350 000 new jobs, and the employment rate was the highest in the EU at the 2014 elections. That the difference in pension between a person who has worked his whole life in the public sector and a person who has not worked at all and receives guarantee pension and housing supplement is only SEK 400 per month is provocative. Although the vast majority have occupational pensions, the coverage rate is the lowest among those who might have needed the most, low-income earners. The lack of gender equality in pension provision is also provocative. This applies to both general and occupational pensions, but I am not going to go into that now. That discussion is worth a debate of its own, and I know that the Pensions Group is also working on that issue. The Alliance reduced the tax for pensioners on five occasions, although not as much as the tax was reduced for those who work, but there were still five tax cuts. The reason the job tax deductions focused on those who work was that a clear carrot was needed for more people to work and for those who already work to work more hours. It has, according to external experts, been successful and has had the very effect that was intended, which is particularly beneficial for pensioners because pensions follow the general trend in income. The Alliance estimated that the tax on pensioners would be reduced even further in the future. The S-MP is now implementing a tax reduction for pensioners, but it is financed by pensioners working. Although it is widely known that it is beneficial both for the individual and for society if more people work longer as they get older, the S-MP removes the carrot for employers and thus reduces the conditions for that particular thing. The labour force participation rate of older people has increased significantly in recent years, to around 15 per cent of those over 65. The growth was particularly strong after 2007 when the employers' contribution for 65-plusers was reduced while they received an increased job tax deduction. So the carrots have worked, and it is sad that the S-MP chooses to ignore it and smash the system. The fact that those born in 1938 received 61 per cent of the final salary in general retirement after retiring at 65 years of age while those born in 1987 received 43 per cent at 65 years of age is a challenge. This is why occupational pensions are important, as well as ensuring that the conditions for working until 69 years are in place, both in an occupational health and safety perspective and in the form of economic carrots. For a person born in 1987, this means that at the age of 69 you receive 67 per cent of the final salary of a general pension. Today's pensioners have worked hard and deserve their pensions. The problem is how we solve the challenge for those who are now young. They also work hard and deserve to feel secure about retirement. From the mid-2020s, the challenges of demographic change will become increasingly clear. Then the big hill 60-talists begin to retire while the famous 40-talist generation then begins to become so-called older, i.e. comes up at an age when you increasingly need help from society. The burden of supply is great for young people, and if we do not manage to integrate newly arrived refugees into the labour market, it will be even more dramatic.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-840	Mr President, I would like to It was a thorough statement of what the bourgeois government is perceived to have done during its time in power. I note that Anette Åkesson refers to the reduction being financed by pensioners. Anette Åkesson knows very well that despite the adjustment we are now making of the employer's contribution for those who are older, you still have a pretty nice discount on the employer's contribution to hire older people. On the other hand, it has felt extremely important for the government to improve the situation of the most deprived pensioners, who are very vulnerable. That is why, among other things, we are beginning to reduce the so-called pensioner's tax imposed by the bourgeois government, which fairly unjustly taxed pensioners more than other workers on the labour market. Let us not stay there, but let us talk about the issues that came up at the end of the speech. What are we doing for young people entering the labour market today? I would like to refer once again to the work that is going on in the Pensions Group. It is extremely urgent. We are proud of the pension reform that we managed to implement in Sweden, and we are also proud that it has broad parliamentary support, that it is financially stable and that it is a system that actually pays out no more than it can bear. We are also proud that it is a system that stimulates work, that it pays to work and that every crown worked counts. There are several different parts that are worth protecting in the work that is going on in the Pensions Group. That is why I, at least as chairman of the Pensions Group, am of the opinion that changes in the pension system should not be made lightly, but we should be aware of exactly what we are doing, because we will have to live with the consequences for a long time. When we look at young people and at those women who can see that they may not end up receiving as high a pension as they would have expected, linked to having actually spent an entire working life in the labour market, it is important for the future credibility of our pension system to find wise and smart solutions. I would like to return to the issue of equal opportunities in the labour market. Although Anette Åkesson says that this is a completely different debate, it is nevertheless very important. It is about women's participation in Sweden and how we can, through various measures, strengthen women's possible participation in the labour force and reduce the number of women working part-time. For example, one third of well-educated women in civil servants go down in working hours, start working part-time, after they have formed a family. Therefore, the government is making a number of efforts to achieve better equality in family life when children enter the family. Today's young people will need to be much more active in terms of their pensions and hopefully have both better knowledge and greater commitment to these issues. The design of occupational pensions is also extremely important. In the way that some of them are designed, by their construction, they contribute to the situation we see with regard to women and women's pensions.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-849	Mr President, I would like to I have to comment on the cost of the S-MP tax reduction. The tax cut for pensioners is around 2 billion. This is the same amount as the increase in employers' contributions for pensioners, although there is still a small discount. It is a heavy responsibility that rests on the S-MP government for the deterioration that will hit the weak in society in the future. Instead of being grateful to the Alliance for pushing through the reforms, for example in the area of social security, which, no matter what government had been in power in 2006-2010, would have had to implement, that is also a social democratic one, when the sickness figures ran out and the world's healthiest people were at the same time the most sickly, they are now being torn up. Of course, it was an election promise, but it is regrettable that the government chooses to keep that particular electoral promise. No one will thank the Social Democrats when pensioners and sick people are affected in the future. Personally, I think it is the worst of all the many bad decisions we have seen so far from the weak S-MP government. It is only to regret the short-termness of S and MP. Unfortunately, we have not received any information on other ways that the S-MP wants to use to increase the driving forces for work or other alternative future funding opportunities for welfare and pensions. Instead, the conditions for older people to work longer are deteriorating, and the number of jobs is decreasing. All in all, it will not promote the economic situation, which will hit current pensioners and even more on future generations of pensioners. It is about reforms for the long-term financing of welfare and how the system becomes fairer over the generations. I would like to thank the Minister for Social Security for the debate and wish you a Merry Christmas.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-855	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Anette Åkesson, for this debate! We can probably see that we have a different view on these tax issues, and I am not going to go into them again. However, it may be reassuring for Anette Åkesson to bear in mind that the question of how we achieve a longer and more sustainable working life is also top priority in the group that works to care for our pension system. We have a good timetable for this and will soon also enter into talks with the social partners. Extending working life for more is no small matter. Today we have a two-way working life. Many people in Sweden are healthy and could work longer. Life expectancy has increased by 20 years over the last 100 years. There we are of exactly the same opinion. In fact, we also have large groups in the labour market, including LO's groups, who are currently retiring considerably earlier than 65. We also know that the most common reason for exit from the labour market is ill-health. On the one hand, we need to extend working life, but we also need to enable more people to take on the challenge of working longer through a sj yst work environment and good conditions. Thank you for the debate, Anette Åkesson, and Merry Christmas!
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-859	Mr President, I would like to Lotta Finstorp has asked me what efforts I think should be made to make the workplace-related support efforts work better. Lotta Finstorp has also asked if I believe that the Social Insurance Agency should make some changes to the regulations surrounding the workplace support. Last time, Lotta Finstorp has asked what other measures I intend to take to improve the ability and willingness of companies to prevent and shorten sick leave. Since 2010, we have seen a steady increase in sick leave, which has particularly affected women. There is no single or simple explanation for the increase. But we know that conditions in the workplace often play a role. Weaknesses in the work environment at a workplace can cause or worsen ill health. On the other hand, a workplace where the employer assumes full responsibility for work environment, adaptation and rehabilitation can prevent sick leave and facilitate return to work. The government takes the rising sickness absence very seriously and acts forcefully. Last autumn we launched a comprehensive action programme with a wide range of measures to reverse developments. One of the measures is to ensure that employers assume their rehabilitation responsibilities. As part of this, a few weeks ago the Government has commissioned the Swedish Social Insurance Agency to evaluate and develop support for employers. The assignment to Försäkringskassan is comprehensive. Some are about workplace support, which is an important support for employers in their rehabilitation work. This support is particularly important for smaller employers who may lack the knowledge and resources needed to provide their employees with the right support. Försäkringskassan will evaluate how the workplace support works and also make suggestions on how it can be developed. This is to further prevent sick leave and make it easier for workers to get back to work. Lotta Finstorp points out that it is unfortunate that only more than half of this year's allocated funds for workplace support have been used so far. I agree that it is important that the money is spent so that workers get the efforts they need. In this context, it should be said that the work-related support was introduced in 2014 by the former government. It is also important to mention that the problem of the aid not being used to the desired extent has existed ever since the aid was introduced. Therefore, the Government has now decided to give Försäkringskassan SEK 2 million to use for information efforts to make the support better known. At the moment, information efforts are taking place in various media channels. Another part of the assignment to Försäkringskassan is about developing the forms of support that the authority can provide to employers. The procedures for identifying employers who may need support from the Social Insurance Agency will be developed. The government is also doing more to make it easier for employers to assume their rehabilitation responsibilities. In the Government's forthcoming agreement with SKL on measures for an effective sick leave process, incentives are reserved for county councils to develop so-called rehabilitation coordinators in healthcare. Rehab coordinators must ensure that care and employer meet early when an employee becomes ill. Through the contact, the employer early gets an idea of what efforts may be needed at the workplace. Since last spring, the government also talks with the social partners about creating better conditions for support and rehabilitation. The Government intends to take initiatives to develop support for people in need of conversion. Sick leave has risen since 2010, when the former government was in power. This government is now acting forcefully and on a broad front to reverse developments.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-868	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. Since this is a new aid introduced as late as 2014, it is perhaps too early to say that it should be evaluated, but it is worrying that the funds have not been spent. It can be assumed that this has to do with the fact that it is unknown to companies. I have read about the support on Försäkringskassan's website. It is quite complicated for the smaller employer to know what applies and when to use it. It's quite complicated Swedish, and you can't really understand when to do what. At the same time, it is, as the Minister says, the smaller companies that lack competence, the HR department and so on. The focus on smaller companies is quite correct, while we see that sick leave in the public sector is increasing among women and in cases of mental illness. It would be unfortunate now to remove the support. You have to hold on longer. I think it was the umbrella organisation of occupational health care that thought that it should be increased, perhaps duplicated, in order to give greater stimulus. It would be great if the Minister could take this with him. The Confederation of Swedish Enterprise has produced a good report on sick leave and so on. That is precisely where this workplace support is addressed. The Confederation of Swedish Enterprise believes that the problems are due to the restriction – you get 7 000 SEK today, and it would be wise to increase it. Support can only be obtained for investigative activities, and it is limited to a circle of suppliers who are eligible for compensation. Like today's release of the CBT and making it more individual-oriented, I think that it should also be opened up for companies to place their own orders from those they want. It should also be developed to cover different treatments. If you develop it so that it covers different treatments, it must also, a little per automatic, become several suppliers. The Confederation of Swedish Enterprise thinks this is a good measure but that you need to screw it a little. There are a number of suggestions for what can be done further. It should also include preventive and rehabilitative treatment. I think so, too. The investigation is part of it, but there is also a need for incentives for prevention. When you feel that your back hurts, you need to be able to get help. I think that would have a very good effect. Then I am concerned that public employers, who have HR departments with high skills in every municipality, are not more involved in these issues. It has to be done if we are to reduce sickness rates or at least stop them, because it is precisely in the public sector that we see this problem. The Confederation of Swedish Enterprise also writes in its report that the employer should continue to decide which rehabilitation actor to turn to. Then you're into this with rehabilitation. I maintain that I believe that we would see effects if we widened this and made it easier for employers to go to actors other than those who are now involved in business support. I will stay here for so long and would like to hear some comments about the Swedish Enterprise's report.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-877	Mr President, I would like to Thanks for the very current interpellation, Lotta Finstorp! It is quite correct that the biggest problem we have right now is the public employers and the professions working in the public sector. That's where we see the biggest problem. We need to do a lot there. We are making an effort today, with the adjustment in the so-called former rehabilitation guarantee, and we will see what effects it will have. When it comes to the issue of workplace support and its evaluation and development, I can face Lotta Finstorp in what she says. The evaluation is very much not about decommissioning, but precisely about the development of workplace support. It is a question of evaluating why it has been used to such a low extent so far. Where are the stoppers in the system? It is also about the development of the workplace-related support that the Social Insurance Agency is now tasked with looking at. They shall make proposals on how to develop workplace-related support to further prevent illness and promote return to work. Among other things, it is formulated in the mission. We will also double the support from 50 to 100 million SEK per year from 2016. So there will be a change here in parallel with this. I have also taken note of the report by the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and the views they have. Among other things, they are in favour of the development of workplace support, but believe that it also needs to include rehabilitation measures. It is also something that we have given to Försäkringskassan to look at, what it could look like and how it could be done. We have an ongoing dialogue from the Government with the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise and other important actors within the framework of the party discussions that we have about this. I am not of the opinion that we are best served by now phasing out something that has been introduced quite recently and yet clearly points in the direction that we want. Then you will see what the evaluation from Försäkringskassan will show. Perhaps it should be a broader palette and perhaps also proper efforts.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-883	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for having had an evolving debate so far! I have a question about when the evaluation will be completed, when the Social Insurance Agency will deliver. It would be interesting to know. I had a conversation with Sweden's occupational health services and got good views that I think is important to include in such an evaluation. Among other things, it was important to ensure that individuals receive the right support and skills at the right time. Among other things, it is about the public sector, where we see these large volumes, because the contact professions are there. Then the middle managers can't have 70 employees, because then you can't see when this is starting to come. It is extremely important to be able to secure the right for the individual in time, when things are starting to go bad. The legislation on occupational health and safety at work is still very much based on legislation and work environment management dealing with heavy industry. It's a pretty old-fashioned thought. It's about heavy lifting. There is very little about mental illness. When I have interpellation debates with the Minister for Health and we talk about mental illness, we are happy to end up with psychosis and manic depression, heavy psychiatric diagnoses. But that's not where we see the big increases. We also need to think about mental illness based on work environment and stress-related mental illness. It is something quite different that requires other treatments and other resources. Then it is interesting to think right from school age: School health care needs to be good at catching up with such work environment issues in the students but also syo. It may seem far-fetched to stand in this Chamber talking about health care or sick leave. But it's about getting the right syo help when you're in primary school and upper secondary school, so that you don't choose from the routine because others in your community choose a particular profession, and that then makes you uncomfortable at work, which leads to stress-related mental illness in the working life. It's all connected. I would like to pay tribute to the Minister for rescrewing so that it is not just the CBT that applies. Otherwise, it's kind of like we here in chambers would decide which operat ion method one should have for gallstones. It must be fully individualised, and resources must be given to continue on this course. Now that we are talking about companies: I have been reading in the media over the last few days that the Minister is talking about the Holland model, which we looked at in the Social Insurance Survey. My question is this: does the Minister not see any risk of imposing additional burdens on employers? I see a risk that it becomes more difficult, that you do not want to start a business, but also that you will be extremely careful about who you hire – that is the great danger. I would like the Minister to develop this preference for the Holland model a little.
i-RE5xAUcrDKbupcVp1TUeuc	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Lotta Finstorp, for this! I'm going to start a little bit with the last, to clarify the preference for the Holland model. My preference for it is mainly that they have reduced both sickness and early retirement in a very good way. There are also parts of that system that trade unions, employers and individuals have said they are very pleased with. However, in the interviews that I had, I tried to make it clear that I am definitely not happy in that model straight off and the very long periods that are put in charge of employers for sick leave. That is absolutely not what I see in front of me – I want to be clear about that. But in Holland there has been a very successful workplace close work. For example, they work with a very simplified process between employees and employers early in illness cases in something called a protocol. We know that with large action plans and other things that are to be established early in a case of illness, you get a risk when you are going to involve a lot of actors, which studies have shown can lead to you getting extended cases instead. In Holland they do not work in this way, but work with simple protocols between employers and employees and in this way they can also start an activity and dialogue between employees and employers early in a process. This has proved to be a very successful path in Sweden too, where we see that there is this dialogue between employers and employees. Then I would like to add to the specific questions I received from Lotta Finstorp. The Social Insurance Agency, when carrying out this evaluation and review and the possible development proposals for workplace support, has the task of consulting employers' representatives so that hopefully no important perspectives are missed. Above all, it is a question of creating a model in which we solve the problem that we now have with the funds not being used properly. Then, in dialogue with employers, we must find a way forward that makes it simple and smart and that it really happens. The assignment will be sub-reported on August 15, 2016 and the final report will be submitted on January 30, 2017 to the Government Office. Regarding the input that Lotta Finstorp made from Sweden's Occupational Health Service, I think a key issue is that in those places where there is an active occupational health care, as it does in most municipalities, get to a more preventive work that allows one in time to get track of any illness that is about to occur. Then it is extremely important that we are a number that are clear when we talk about the increase in sickness rates. Just as Lotta Finstorp says here, it is not about psychosis and manic depression, it is about mild to moderate mental disorders that have a completely different treatment catalogue. This is very important for us to land right.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-897	Mr President, I would like to It is also a question of finding healthy health rates and healthy workplaces and good examples. Research has shown that these are often workplaces where the manager, the supervisor, has relatively few employees to be responsible for or have dialogue with and where the employees feel that they are involved in the workplace, are heard and can present their proposals and so on. I think that highlighting such good examples would be good for, for example, a municipality that has worked very actively with its healthy speech, so to speak, and which can be an example for many other municipalities. There is a fire in the knots, and we really must try to stop this. It is the responsibility of the Minister who is responsible for it. If the health insurance system fails, an entire country's economy can roll over. This is why it is really about the whole of Sweden's economy. I know that the Minister has presented a package of measures with a variety of proposals that will be launched. It is ambitious, and it will be very interesting to follow. With regard to the economic impact, I wonder whether it has been calculated how much it will be able to give if these measures have an impact. It would be very interesting to know how much the State's costs can be estimated to be reduced if these measures are fully effective. The Minister said in the media the other day that they would give the county councils more money so that they would have better contact with the companies. Does the county councils say that it is because of what they do not have contact outside? Is it really for what they need money? I would like to advocate that a return to work be made clearer in the Health Act.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-902	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Lotta Finstorp. Good examples are very important. I also believe that some of these key factors – that there are fewer employees per manager, that you can create greater participation, as Lotta Finstorp says, and that you are heard – is why we in smaller companies, in smaller employers or even in welfare businesses that choose to organise themselves differently, see significantly fewer sick leave. There you don't experience yourself as part of a huge machine where you don't have influence or power over your day-to-day work. I think there is something in this that we really need to think further about in terms of the way in which we organise public activities. With regard to the action programme that the government is now gradually launching, where we are also constantly giving different assignments, the ultimate goal is that by 2020 we will land on a disease rate that is significantly lower than what we have today. There will soon be an interpellation debate on it. That may sound silly, but we are talking about this compared to what is now forecast. If we do not manage to stop the influx and reverse the trend, it is still 80 000 fewer sick people in 2019 that we are talking about, if we are now going to specifically talk about what it is actually about. Of course, the costs involved are also considerably lower in economic terms. But this will require hard work. I also believe that it will take more time before we see these effects. But we are convinced that if we get these different parts in place and continue to be ambitious and dare to remedy this. It's just as important to all of us.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-905	Mr President, I would like to Johan Fors's ell has asked me whether I still believe that the proposed target of nine days' absence from work is achievable. The short answer to the question in the interpellation is yes. Of course, the objective is a challenge, but I am convinced that the broad action programme that the government has decided on will have an impact. The Government's action programme for increased health and reduced sick leave contains measures in seven areas. I would like to mention some of these measures. The Swedish Social Insurance Agency has been given increased resources to strengthen assessments in individual cases. The aim is to make better use of people's work capacity. Women are far more likely to be on sick leave than men. There is much evidence that this can be explained to some extent by gender inequality. It is also likely that women have more psychologically stressful jobs. Efforts are therefore being made to improve gender equality and the psychosocial working environment. In order to improve the conditions for health care to be able to meet mental health problems, initiatives are being made in primary care. Employers have a central role in preventing sick leave and helping sick workers back to work. Therefore, the Swedish Social Insurance Agency has been tasked with developing cooperation with employers. Sick leave has increased by about 70 per cent since 2010. Breaking this trend and stabilising absenteeism is one of the government's top priorities. The task is not easy, but I am convinced that we can do it. However, this requires a common pool of forces.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-913	Mr President, I would like to I would, of course, like to begin by thanking the Government for its response to the interpellation. It is Christmas time, and we have now had three semesters out of eight during the term of office. One could say that it is almost half time for the government. We heard that the Government in its history description talked about the period from 2010 onwards. I really think it is more intellectually honest to assess everything that a government has done and thus start from 2006 and then evaluate by 2014. If you select some shorter periods of time, it is clear that you can get different answers. But it is more honest to look at what has happened and what has not happened since a government comes into government and until it resigns. Then we know what happened during the reign of the Alliance. There was a very sharp reduction in sick leave, which has been very positive for Sweden. Now the whole period has not passed, but only three semesters for the current government. But it is clear that there is not much light on this point. It looks rather dark. If we look at what has happened with the sickness benefit rate from September 2014, we can see that it was 11.8 days and in October 2015 has risen significantly to 13.5 days. Now the government is setting a goal. We have nothing against having goals, but if goals are to become effective, the government must also have the right policy forward. It is, of course, positive that the government is still saying that this objective is achievable. But what is more relevant is whether the government and Annika Strandhäll believe that the goal will be reached. Is it the government's assessment that the objective it has set will be achieved? I would be grateful if I could have an answer to that question. Mr President, I would like to I think it'll be difficult. We have had regular debates for a year and a half. Unfortunately, I think the government has missed many opportunities that have existed. Many things have taken a very long time. Just such a simple thing as appointing a new head of the Social Insurance Agency should not have to take nearly nine months, if I remember correctly. The government is now, at a late stage, carrying out a great deal of work. Some of them are good. But I think they are coming very late into the term of office. Then there is the question of the longer time limit in health insurance, where experts, authorities and researchers quite unisoned – with some exceptions – said that your proposal will have the effect of increasing and not reducing absenteeism. For me, it is very strange that the government is making such a proposal when sick leave is already rising today. I have also noted that the government has today presented what is called one of the most important initiatives the government is making during this term of office. That's interesting. What I couldn't figure out in this matter is what the funding for this is supposed to look like. There is now talk of 1.5 billion. What I can understand is this, first of all, the billions of people who have been on sick leave for years, so there is nothing new about it. It's existing money. The second is the rehabilitation guarantee, where it has already become known that the government has chosen to reduce it from 750 million, if I remember correctly, to 500 million. We Moderates have instead proposed an increase to 900 million. 1 billion plus 500 million is in itself 1 1⁄2 billion, but as far as I can tell, there is no new money. I would therefore be grateful if the Government could sort this out. What's new?
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-924	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for this, Johan Forssell! I would also like to say that it is just as Johan Forssell says: If you set a goal or make efforts, you may need to ensure that it is the right policy you put forward. You can see and turn it around and turn it around as much as you want, but Johan Forssell does not escape the fact that during the last term of the bourgeois government, that is, the same period of time as the later deadline seemed – your sub-fund, which is what you are now hanging on to as a solution to the increasing sick leave– you managed at some point to secure 100 000 individuals who have since very much been spinning around in health insurance not only one, not two, but quite many even three times. To call this game of numbers and statistics where you make long cases of illness new short cases of illness for a successful policy, at least I do not think that is something to be proud of. Then it is far more honest to say: Yes, we realize that long cases of illness are long cases of illness. It may even be that they will have some effect on sick leave in the future. But then it is more honest to deal with that situation than to trixing with numbers and securing people who are sick. I do not think that is the right policy. In fact, sick leave increased by 50% during your last term of office. Johan Forssell usually talks about losing control. I would like to say that it is losing control. Moreover, not only were people assured, but the trials at the early deadlines of the rehabilitation chain that you are so proud of declined radically during these four years, that is, people did not have their work capacity tested. There was no evaluation of the possible measures needed to return to the labour market. Instead, you relied on the distant time limit and the numbering. It's the wrong policy. That's not how we're gonna keep going. However, I obviously believe that this goal will be achieved, Johan Forssell. We launched the target a little over two months ago. Johan Forssell knows that. If we had seen the effects of that, I would have been a wizard, but I'm not. It will take time to turn this ship around, as the Swedish Social Insurance Agency says. It is now beginning to implement the Government's action plan to reverse developments. This is done with, among other things, reinforced government funds. Johan Forssell is right that the 250 million we contribute to actually tighten this up also comes from a reduction in the rehabilitation guarantee. The rehabilitation guarantee – which you want to strengthen, referring to the wrong policy – is a measure that the National Audit Office, the Institute of Economic Affairs and the Inspection of Social Security have strongly criticised. That is why we are now making major changes to support people in the right way, with the right policies.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-933	Mr President, I would like to I find it fascinating that Annika Strandhäll continues to make summaries of someone else's politics a little as she herself wants. She chooses her own dates and what suits her best. Actually, I think it's gonna be a little silly. This government will be judged by what you do from the beginning to the end. I can promise Annika Strandhäll that I will never evaluate what she has done after a few months or in different parts. I will be more honest than that, and I actually think it would be good for this government to repay this. Annika Strandhäll also knows that the total absenteeism decreased radically during the year of the Alliance at Ma kten. The government itself has pointed it out several times. To now make a different history is therefore strange. The increase in the second term took place despite the longer deadline and not because of it. Now the Minister continues stubbornly to argue that it has been a failure, but with all due respect: I do not think it is any longer so interesting to take this view because so many referral bodies, the government's own authorities, researchers and experts are speaking against the government and the Minister for Social Security on this point. I have read the referral, and I have also said that I am not sure whether the government has even taken part in this. However, we know today that the deadline is needed, and we know that a policy of abolishing it will lead to an increase in absenteeism. It will also cost money, up to SEK 1 billion. You have also endorsed this in your budget proposal. Mr President, I would like to I want to return to the goal that the government has set itself. Don't get me wrong: I think it's positive that you have a goal. But you also need to have the right policies to get there. A description from Försäkringskassan the other day, which was quite dramatic reading from an authority, did not appear at all on the government's picture. It warns in another alarm report, after only two months, that sick leave will not decrease, will not remain, but will, on the contrary, increase. I fear that this target for sick leave will be just as ineffective as the government has set itself for unemployment by 2020. There is no one today, as I can see, who believes in it except perhaps the government itself. Mr President, I would like to If we return to the money, the Government will confirm that there is no new money. It is, in fact, a reduction. What the government has described as one of the most important initiatives now being made is the sick leave billion that has been in existence for several years, and so is the rehabilitation guarantee that the government wants to reduce – from 750 million to 500 million SEK. That's how you put it together, and then you change the name of it. It's a change of name. I find it very difficult to see where the bet is. Where's the new money? I'd be grateful if the government could sort it out. I must also ask: is it reasonable that a saving of 250 million should be described as an effort? I believe that the Swedish people will see through it, but more seriously, I do not believe that it will have the effect that the government is hoping for. On the contrary, I believe that sick leave with current policies will continue to rise, as the Social Insurance Agency has pointed out, and I am very concerned about such a development. Not primarily because it is bad for the government but because it is bad for Sweden, for all people who go to work and for the people who are at home. That is not the policy we need more of.
i-Gkk9XoiVwazURTYv5G4dXu	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Johan Forssell, for that input! I think from time to time you should be a little careful about how to express yourself. I note that Johan Forssell began his last speech by saying that he would never evaluate my efforts after a number of months. But I think that's exactly what Johan Forssell did both in his first and in his second post, which is a bit astounding. Above all, it is both exciting and a little regrettable that he stands at all and discusses whether the target of nine days of sick leave by 2020 is achievable only two months after it has been launched. When it comes to the whole question of the longer deadline, Johan Forssell, we will probably have to sort some things out. First of all, we have never denied that there will be a slightly increased cost. But it is a question of stopping the insurance of sick people for whom the costs then end up in other accounts, the early retirement account and the allowance account, or, quite frankly, people falling between the seats. What we do is we take responsibility for reality rather than trixing with numbers. People who are ill should be in health insurance and not in support. When we talk about the right policy and about the investment that the government has today gone out and launched, it is so, Johan Forssell, that 1.5 billion is 1.5 billion. The bourgeois government, on the other hand, spent these funds on measures which the very bodies that Johan Forssell likes to lean on – the National Audit Office, the Inspection of Social Security and the KI – in their evaluations have been talking about for a long time are wrong initiatives. This is what the government has been working on for the past year. We have taken on board the criticisms from the evaluations and are now redesigning the whole package in the form of an improved sick leave process and rehabilitation. We take a holistic approach and increase the availability and number of treatment methods, as your predecessor here in the speaker's chair, Lotta Finstorp, thought was very good just now – she also represents the Moderates, as far as I know. In addition, we are strengthening the elements relating to return to work and health care's opportunities for contacts with employers – things that we know have not worked but that we are now correcting. Hopefully, this is the right policy. It will also be evaluated, and perhaps we will have to adjust it accordingly. But one cannot sit and watch year after year, as you did during your last term of office, while something is not working. This was introduced in 2008.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-948	Mr President, I would like to It is obvious that reality is the biggest enemy of this government. No matter how much Annika Strandhäll wishes or wants, it is difficult to explain away. The government's own authorities go out and warn the government against abolishing the longer deadline. Yet the Minister for Social Security does. The goal that the government has set today in two months' time, says Försäkringskassan, will be very difficult to achieve, so you make a different forecast. I'm not saying it's impossible to reach. But it doesn't look very positive, the Minister for Social Security, and your own authority has signed off if you listen to it, which I hope you do. We are now seeing after three semesters out of eight – it is not the full term of office so we will continue to follow this – that the sickness benefit rate is increasing. It's been done week after week, month after month. And maybe I would have liked a little more humility from the Government, that she could see and bring this in, not just knock away all the criticism. When Annika Strandhäll took office, she often talked about cooperation and finding broad solutions. Unfortunately, I can see that it seems to have been blown away. Let us also return to the efforts that the government has made. So it's a change of name of money. With this policy, many efforts can be made. There are certainly many programs and funding entries that can be renamed. But, Mr President, it is not an initiative. Don't say that! Finally, I would like to thank you for the interpellation debate. I would like to wish Mr President and the officials here a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year. I would like to wish the same to the Government. But I must also say that I hope that next year will be more successful when it comes to reversing sick leave than 2015 has been.
i-826cABTTSrbsrpGHuhmM8s	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Johan Forssell! Johan Forssell knows that the finger of warning raised by some authorities when it came to the longer deadline was whether the government would not take any measures to compensate for the fact that we are removing the longer deadline. The government does. As I said, we launched a broad action programme two months ago, so referring to something that is not correct today will be very strange. The fact that the Social Insurance Agency makes a different forecast is not consistent with the truth. You can read that in the debate article that you constantly refer to. What Försäkringskassan says is: This will be difficult. We will not be able to do it on our own, but many will have to work together – healthcare, employers, other authorities and many actors – to solve this equation. And that is nothing but what the government has been saying all along. The forecast of 13, as the Social Insurance Agency points out, is the forecast that the government has had, which is well known to the government and which, of course, we did not think would change two months after we had presented our package of measures. It will certainly take more time before we see any effects. We're rolling out these missions right now, so we'll have to be a little patient. That is what the reality is, even if we sometimes want something else in the country of politics. But we are going to reverse the trend, and we are going to do it slowly but surely to have a low and stable sick absence by 2020. Then it becomes a little difficult for me when you, Johan Forssell, are so strongly critical of government policy when you propose a clear goal in your motions on these issues. You want to invest more money in a rehabilitation guarantee that is doomed and which we are now changing. I think it would have been the wrong policy. You want to keep the time limit that has not worked. So we have different points of view here. I thank you, Johan Forssell, for a as usual creative and good debate, wish you Merry Christmas and Happy New Year and look forward to meeting after the turn of the year.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-960	Mr President, I would like to Anette Åkesson has asked the Minister for Finance if she is aware that of the 12 billion that the S-MP government allocates to municipalities for 2016, 11 billion are targeted state grants, not general grants. The question has also been asked whether the Minister of Finance takes into account the different challenges that municipalities face, depending on, for example, the size of the municipalities, or whether the government will continue to increase the proportion of targeted state subsidies, which smaller municipalities find difficult to absorb. Furthermore, Anette Åkesson has asked why the Minister of Finance does not trust that the municipalities themselves know best how to use the money and whether she plans to reduce the bureaucracy in the distribution of targeted state grants. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. Initially, I would like to say that I largely agree with Anette Åkesson's view on targeted state subsidies. In this context, I would like to point out the position taken in the supplementary proposal of 1992, which proposed a new system of state subsidies for municipalities, whereby a large part of the targeted state grants were phased out and replaced by a general grant. As a result of the reform, municipalities were given increased responsibility for their activities. Even in the 2004 budget bill, the government expressed its views on the targeted state grants and argued that although special-dispensed state grants may be justified in some cases, the basic principle is that state grants should be provided in the form of general grants. This principle is something I support. Targeted state grants can be used to supplement the general grant in certain cases, for example in the case of temporary incentives or in the case of shortcomings in a municipal activity. The trend towards more and more and more detailed targeted state subsidies is something that the previous alliance government has also contributed to. For the government, it is important to reduce the total number of steering signals that municipalities and county councils encounter. The Government is therefore working for a more strategic use of the targeted state grants, where greater consideration is given to the aggregate amount of government's steering signals as well as to the different conditions of municipalities and county councils. In this work, it is particularly important to reduce the administrative burden on municipalities and county councils.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-965	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for his reply. Yes, I know that this is an issue that does not differ between parties. But it is the same with us all wanting to increase the number of hours worked, but that requires making such proposals politically and not the opposite. Swedish municipalities look very different and have different conditions to complete their assignments. The 290 municipalities have everything from Stockholm's 920 000 inhabitants to Bjurholm's about 2,500 inhabitants. The Median municipality has about 15 500 inhabitants and is therefore what is usually referred to as a rather small municipality. Generally speaking, the financing of municipal activities is 85% with tax revenue and 15% with government subsidies, both general and targeted. General government grants have dominated since the 1993 state grant reform when the earmarked state grants were included in the general state grant to the municipalities combined with an equalisation system. This means that municipalities receive money that they then choose how to use it. We have far-reaching municipal autonomy in Sweden. It is the municipalities that have knowledge of what it looks like in their own municipality, and the local politicians can best prioritise where resources do the most benefit locally. It is also the local politicians who bear responsibility and every four years are held accountable for how the municipality has been managed. Municipal activities such as school, care for the elderly and childcare need long-term, stable conditions. Unfortunately, the general state contribution has increasingly begun to be replaced by targeted state subsidies. Targeted state grants shall be used for a specific purpose determined nationally, often limited in time. Often municipalities need to apply for this money, which is resource-intensive. When a government goes out and promises more targeted state grants for a particular purpose within, for example, school or elderly care, it raises expectations of residents but also stress and frustration in the municipalities. Smaller municipalities in particular may find it difficult, as has been confirmed in the Swedish National Audit Office's review of special-destined state grants within the school that show a systematic under-utilisation of smaller municipalities in sparsely populated areas. Moreover, if state grants require co-financing, this makes it even more difficult. The conclusion is that it is not very effective and does not guarantee greater equivalence of activities. We will see if the Swedish National Audit Office comes to the same conclusion in its upcoming review of the governance of health care through targeted state grants. Targeted state grants are a way of running municipal and county policy from a national level. Somehow it is in the system to want to influence nationally, so we will hardly get away from it completely. However, when we are aware of the drawbacks, not least democratic, it is all the more important to highlight developments as they are heading in the wrong direction. The S-MP government holds the new record of 11 billion of the 12 billion allocated to the 2016 budget. What is the work for a more strategic use of targeted state grants? How does the government intend to deal with the challenge in the future, which is that on the one hand we have far-reaching autonomy in Swedish municipalities, and on the other hand expect more equal activities in the municipalities despite the different conditions?
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-977	Mr President, I would like to I thank Anette Åkesson for the interpellation and speech. This is an extremely important issue if we are to work to improve the quality of public activities and provide the best possible conditions for the local government sector to adapt to the needs of the regions and localities. The Government has a responsibility to work with the development of governance of the public sector. We started work right after the change of power and arranged nine seminars at the country's universities and colleges. We invited representatives of the local government sector, of state employers, of trade unions and professional organisations and of research. We asked how we can work to develop governance in the public sector so that employees have the right room for manoeuvre to make professional assessments based on their knowledge and experience. This work also included the perspective of central government's governance of municipalities. If pros are to be allowed to be pros, we must also allow pros in the municipal sector to be pros. This calls for the development of state governance in the local government sector. The state sends many different control signals to the municipalities. We have the legislation, regulations and targeted state subsidies. There are also more methods used in the governance of the municipal sector. In 2015, we have thus gathered knowledge with the help of the research and representatives of the stakeholders. Then it is important that we start a work where we start to develop governance in concrete terms. This work will begin after the end of the year and will consist of several different projects dealing with the development of governance in the public sector. Here, we will also include work on monitoring the impact of targeted state subsidies. Targeted state grants are justified in some cases. There may be reasons to use that model. However, as the interpellier was concerned, there are also some risks associated with targeted state subsidies. It is not just a matter of municipal self-government. It is also about increasing productivity in the public sector and in the municipal sector, and then there must be room for manoeuvre for those who carry out the activities. It is also about the administrative burden that is sometimes associated with certain forms of targeted state subsidies. We intend to start a work at the Ministry of Finance where we are studying the effects of the targeted state grants and also looking at how we can work to reduce the risks associated with targeted state grants. It is an important part of the development of governance, and we have a constructive dialogue with the Swedish Municipalities and County Council on this issue. I am pleased that Sweden's Municipalities and County Councils are now studying these issues and not least the effects of the government and government's steering signals to the local government sector. This type of discussion can lead to the creation of a governance model that provides better efficiency improvements in the municipal sector, and it will benefit our country and our citizens.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-986	Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that there is a lot of work going on. Let us hope that the budget submitted for 2016 was a small accident at work and that the government, with the help of these projects, seminars and discussions, will come up with other ways of sending the signals that the state still has to send in many cases. Targeted state grants may aim to improve the quality of operations. However, if the municipalities most in need of improved quality do not apply for these funds, they will not have the required effect. The majority of municipalities finance their activities with their own income. Municipal income tax is the largest income item in the public sector and included just over SEK 500 billion in 2013. However, both local government revenue and their expenditure side are cyclically dependent – the revenue side by reducing tax revenues in times of recession when jobs are affected and the expenditure side by increasing expenditure on supply support at the same time. Discussions have been held on whether the state should go in more clearly and strengthen the local government sector in the event of a recession. It can be an advantage because the activities carried out are long-term and would benefit from a more stable framework. I am aware that this does not really fit in with the question, but it would be interesting to know whether it is something that the government is considering. Part of the budgetary policy framework that regulates, among other things, the general government surplus targets and central government expenditure ceilings is the requirement for the local government sector to have a balanced budget. But now that the government is signaling that it is considering abolishing the expenditure ceiling and that it no longer considers it important that reforms should be financed krona-by-krona, how does the government expect the local government sector to meet its financial requirements? It is worrying in itself that the state does not have a government that is financially responsible, but the consequences are even more serious if the municipalities go in the same track as the S-MP government. You open Pandora's box, and it's hard to see the consequences, not least in the longer term. Or how do you interpret the government's latest play? To return to the question of state subsidies. The targeted state grants do not necessarily produce the effects they are supposed to have and are where they need to be applied for bureaucratic management. In addition, municipal accountability is made more difficult. I therefore wonder whether in future the government intends to break the trend and instead reduce the proportion of targeted state subsidies to municipalities in favour of general state subsidies. One issue connected with state subsidies is the content of the public commitment. Is the government discussing the development of the long-term public commitment? In view of future challenges and demographic developments, this should be a subject of debate which is strongly influenced by state subsidies. Should the municipal commitment be changed?
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-995	Mr President, I would like to We have initiated a very constructive dialogue with Sweden's municipalities, county councils and regions. I go country and country around and meet representatives of all municipalities and county councils and discuss municipal structural issues. The aim is to collect comments for an investigation that we intend to set up in 2016 and which will deal with just municipal structural issues. We have a lot of challenges in the public sector, not least in municipal operations. We have the effects of urbanization. It is usually said that Sweden has an urbanisation rate that is among the highest in Europe. We have an ageing population – fewer and fewer people are going to support more and more people. We have increased expectations of the citizens. There we see changes in behaviour regarding the consumption of public services. Municipal structural issues have not been fully investigated in very many years. There is reason for the government to start such work in close dialogue with the local government sector and political parties. When the municipal dialogues are completed, we therefore intend to set up an investigation that will be tasked with looking at the issues related to the conditions for municipal operations and the municipal sector. This may not only be the focus on division issues, but may also include questions about the division of tasks or the distribution of public commitment between different levels. These are issues that need to be carefully investigated, and we need to launch a debate in the country on this. Of course, we will closely monitor the effects of the economic steering signals sent by the government to the local government sector. As I said, it will be of great importance for the government to monitor the use of targeted state subsidies. There are really two parts to this issue. The first is the distribution between general and targeted state grants. Here, as I said, my starting point and the government's starting point is that general state contributions are the main rule, and we have no change of approach there. The second is the actual design of the targeted state subsidies and the bureaucratic and administrative requirements associated with them. Here we definitely need to analyse the impact of the current models and work to design targeted state subsidies in such a way that the local government sector has as little administrative burden as possible. It is a question of protecting the equivalence of public activities. If there are too many differences between the municipalities, equivalence is threatened, and this will affect the cohesion of our country in the long term. This equivalence is affected by the possibility of participating in state resources for municipal activities. I broadly share the concerns expressed by the interpeller regarding targeted state subsidies. I will be working on this issue in the coming year with the rest of the government.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-1004	Mr President, I would like to Yes, the question is that of municipal self-government and equivalence, which are, of course, somewhat opposed to each other. It will be very exciting to follow the investigation, and I look forward to these important issues. It will also be exciting to follow the actual evolution of the distribution of state grants and see whether it continues to be a high proportion of targeted state grants or whether it maintains the principle that it should be predominantly general state grants. This concerns concrete conditions for Swedish municipalities, but also the activities that affect many residents on a daily basis. These are complex issues that should be discussed more favourably. Generally speaking, I think that we need to think more about the conditions of municipalities and county councils and the conditions they have to cope with their important activities, not least in view of the challenges we face with population development. Since policy is to prioritise, not just raise taxes when it gets tough, an important issue is also what the public commitment should be like in the future. As far as state subsidies are concerned, I hope that the government will consider both once and twice in the next budgetary process in the future and would rather put any initiatives as general rather than as targeted state subsidies. It promotes democracy, increases the efficiency of the use of tax funds and reduces the frustration of citizens and municipalities. I would like to thank the Minister for Civil Affairs for the debate.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-1009	Mr President, I would like to Once again, I would like to thank Anette Åkesson for the interpellation and for this debate. I look forward to continued dialogue on these issues. It has been a very constructive dialogue with the municipal representatives within the framework of the municipal dialogue, and I look forward to discussing these issues with the Swedish parliament. Finally, I would like to point out that the SEK 9.8 billion contributed to the municipal sector for 2015 and 2016 due to the refugee situation is general. The general rule is good to take as a starting point. Thank you for the discussion.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-1013	Mr President, I would like to Anette Åkesson has asked me how the conditions for coping with future welfare challenges can be improved through collaboration with companies and whether I believe that profits in companies in the welfare sector should be assessed in a different way than profits in the construction industry. I believe that innovation and development should permeate all public activities, whether the performer is private or public. Collaboration with companies is an important part of this. The Government has therefore set up an Innovation Council to serve as a forum for ongoing exchanges between the government, industry, the scientific community and the social partners. The Council shall, inter alia, identify strategic areas of cooperation. The Government has also set up a study on the innovation and entrepreneurial environment that will review key framework conditions for entrepreneurship, innovation and adaptability. The procurement authority works with the Early Dialogue programme. The programme reinforces efforts to promote innovation and new solutions through public procurement. The Government also intends to present a national strategy for public procurement. The key perspectives of the strategy are the development of public activities, ecological and social considerations and innovations. Two hearings have been held with participants from companies and industry organisations as well as public authorities in order to capture as many perspectives as possible in the work on the strategy. A variety of actors can contribute to the testing and dissemination of new ideas. Therefore, in order to fulfil the welfare mission in the future, we also need to harness the strength and potential of, among other things, the idea-based sector. The idea-driven actors today say that they find it difficult to stand up in procurements. In order to achieve a real diversity with different types of performers that can promote knowledge development in the welfare sector, the Government sees a need for non-profit actors to be able to develop and have a more prominent role as performers in welfare. A starting point for the government's work is to ensure that tax funds are used for what they are intended for. It is, among other things, against this background that the Government has set up the Welfare Investigation. Anette Åkesson has also asked me if profits in companies in the welfare sector should be assessed differently from profits in the construction industry. The welfare inquiry is tasked with investigating how public funding of private welfare services should be regulated. I don't want to go ahead with the investigation. However, there are significant differences between welfare services and the construction industry, whether the funding is private or public. The welfare sector has a strong public interest in terms of the importance of services for citizens. One aspect is also how difficult it is to determine the conditions and quality of service in advance and to be able to follow up the results afterwards. The area of welfare is characterised by difficulties in defining quality compared with, for example, building construction. Profits in welfare companies can be generated by reducing the actual value of the service, for example through reduced staffing or lower employment conditions. The combination of profit interest and difficulties in defining and monitoring quality means that in the worst case scenario there may be incentives to cut down on quality in order to achieve profit. When we look at other countries, it is clear that the vast majority of comparable countries have systems that, for example, regulate in different ways the possibilities of transferring money from school activities, while the corresponding ones are less common in the construction sector.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-1026	Mr President, I would like to I would like to start by thanking the Minister for his reply. There were a lot of things that I look forward to following the development of. On the other hand, I believe that although there are obvious challenges in specifying and monitoring quality, this should not in itself mean not working on the problems. The fact that we need companies in the welfare sector is a statement that I believe the Minister for Civil Affairs agrees with. There are many prejudices about companies that carry out tax-funded welfare services, but there is also a lot of ignorance. It can be about the conditions for the companies but also the municipalities and county councils that deliver these services but also about what profit is and what profit is used for. The fact that there has then been a left-wing political agenda that deliberately disseminates incorrect information will certainly contribute as well. I wonder if not many confuse the word profit with dividends. For profit is simply the result at the end of the year when revenues are higher than costs. If a company is to exist in the long term, it must make a profit. Some of the profits can be used for dividends to the owners, but it is also the profits that are used to invest and invest in the operations. A company only makes money if people buy its services, and therefore the focus is on improving them. What many people do not think about is that municipalities and county councils should also make a profit. It is usually called a surplus or a budget. There are even legal requirements for municipalities to make a profit, i.e. to have good financial management in the long term. The policy should strike a balance between funding a good business today and ensuring that there are good conditions for the future. Profits are therefore needed in municipalities to ensure different requirements and take into account risks that are not always known in the budget work, but also to be able to make investments in the municipality. Otherwise, future generations will be burdened. One might ask why it has become so controversial that companies make profits, or rather: It seems only to apply to companies in what is called welfare, i.e. school, health care and care. It happens to be companies in industries where many women work and therefore is expertise. It is really sad that women's entrepreneurship is thus being discredited. The focus must be more on good quality delivered. A lot is happening in this area. The municipalities of Sweden and Landsting and the municipalities themselves work with it. What, then, are the profits in the welfare companies? They are nowhere near being as tall as people generally believe. If you look at the operating margin, i.e. the sum that indicates how much of the company's income remains to pay interest and tax and profits, it is in companies of the welfare sector with mainly tax-funded customers according to SCB on average 4.6 per cent. By comparison, general enterprises in the service sector have 5.4 per cent. However, when people were asked to estimate the operating margin, the average was 26 percent, i.e. significantly higher. Half believed that the operating margin was even higher than 20 per cent, and one in four believed it was over 40 per cent. I have read the numbers in Entrepreneurship Forum's anthology Profits, welfare and entrepreneurship. The companies in the welfare sector are therefore completely mistaken. They do not make big profits, and the profits made are often invested in the operations, not in dividends to the owners. I therefore wonder how the Minister of Civil Affairs views the concept of profit in the light of the directives for the Welfare Investigation, which states, among other things, that the existence of profit interests affects the structure of incentives in the activity, which goes beyond quality, equivalence, accessibility and working conditions.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-1035	Mr President, I would like to Once again, I would like to thank Anette Åkesson for an interesting interpellation. This is also an incredibly important issue concerning the organisation of the public sector. We have had major reforms over the last two decades, where we have allowed commercial actors into public welfare activities. Sweden has gone further than most other countries in the Western world when it comes to letting commercial operators in, among other things, the education sector. It has some advantages. We have increased the diversity of stakeholders, and we have strengthened the freedom of choice for users. But it also involves a lot of risks and negative consequences that need to be dealt with legally, not least. When it comes to the financing of public welfare services, we are based on a number of principles. An important principle should be that public funds should be used for what they are intended for. Among other things, we have in the Local Government Act localization principles, which affect the use of public resources in municipal operations. It can be said that the current regulatory framework for private operators in public welfare services does not meet these objectives, because we do not have legal instruments to influence the use of resources in public welfare services operated by private operators but, of course, financed by our tax resources. Therefore, the Government has set up a number of different investigations, including the Welfare Investigation, which has the great task of developing such a regulatory framework. This is about minimising the risk of improper use of resources. Resources for school activities should, of course, be used for school activities. Of course, winning is a relevant issue. When the purpose of the business is to distribute profits to the owners, some potential risks arise in activities that need to be dealt with legally. There is a potential risk of reducing quality and, among other things, staffing to increase profits. The potential conflict is evident in this type of activity. Legislation does not answer this question. It does in other countries. In other countries, it has been decided to completely prohibit, for example, profit-making activities in educational activities that are publicly funded. This is the order that applies in, for example, Norway, Denmark and most other Western European countries. We haven't wanted to go that far. If you study the mission in the Welfare Investigation, we will talk more about how to deal with the potential conflict for operational purposes and how to deal legally with the use of resources, i.e. the management of any surplus in publicly funded welfare services. There is certainly reason to criticise us for not going so far, but I think it is well-balanced to simply focus on the use of resources and then also admit that we have a lot to gain from having different kinds of performers in public welfare activities. There is no will on the part of the government to reduce diversity. Nor is there any will on the part of the government to impair the freedom of choice of users. However, there is a strong will on the part of the government to adjust the regulatory framework so that we get better control of the use of resources. It is an extremely relevant and necessary reform. We cannot start from what it is like in general and how the responsible companies are doing, but we must have a system that is sustainable. We also see that in some sectors we have serious acute problems right now. I am thinking of the reception of refugees and, for example, the reports we are now receiving on asylum homes and HVB homes. There are profit margins that are not at 5%, but far above this. There we see inefficient use of resources, and it is Swedish taxpayers who finance things that are not part of the public commitment. Here we need a changed regulatory framework. We will work on this, and we hope that ideological duplicators will not put an end to this work.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-1046	Mr President, I would like to Of course, I fully agree with the Government that we should minimise the risk of inefficient use of resources. We all agree on that. I am also pleased to hear the Government say that there are advantages to both diversity and freedom of choice, because these are two important elements of politics. We also agree politically that healthcare, school and care should be financed through the tax collective. We are all working on the same line that tax evasion and tax evasion should be prosecuted. The work against rogue companies that not only avoid paying the right tax but are also unfair in their competition with other players is conducted both nationally and internationally. When it comes to purchasing services, we think it is quite obvious to procure, for example, works from the construction companies. Although there are differences between procurement of welfare services and works, the specifications for works are not always easy either. I take the response from the Minister for Civil Affairs as saying that he believes that society has more confidence in the construction companies than in the welfare service companies. I question that a little, because I think it is more true for the parties on the left. Furthermore, in welfare, thanks to the Freedom of Choice Act, there is now the possibility for customers to choose for themselves. It is better for people to choose, or opt out of, who provides them with the best service. It usually works excellently in school, primary care and home care services in the welfare sector. If we compare the construction industry with the welfare industry, both have profit interests. It may be more difficult to define and monitor the quality of welfare, but on the other hand it is met by LOV, which enables customers to choose for themselves. Thus, the argument that welfare companies should cut down on quality falls. If they do, they'll lose their customers. This applies provided there are alternatives. However, I have not said that I support those who are now making a lot of money where the regulatory framework is not working very well. So we need to ensure that there are choices in welfare, that is to say that we need to ensure that there are good conditions not only for construction companies but also for welfare companies. Unfortunately, the signals given by the directives to the Welfare Investigation have meant that an industry that has grown in the past has now stopped. Together with V, the S-MP government creates uncertainty that results in reduced investments and fewer jobs. Based on what – a feeling? But where are the facts? I can't get it together, so the Secretary of State might be able to help me. We need the business community's help to cope with the development of welfare services. Companies need to be able to make profits, that is to say, the same as we in the law require of the municipalities. According to all reports, the quality of the companies providing services in the welfare sector is as good or better than that of the municipalities. The users and customers are satisfied, the staff are satisfied and the costs are generally lower, i.e. working more efficiently. Then you take good care of the tax crowns. The question is: Why does the Left continue to suspect companies in the welfare sector? Why are companies not given good opportunities to conduct a good business for tax money in competition but on equal terms with municipalities?
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-1055	Mr President, I would like to The government's ambition is not to suspect anyone. Our obligation is to develop a regulatory framework that ensures the right use of resources and ensures efficiency in public activities. That regulatory framework is not in place. One of the most important principles of Swedish administration and one of the most important tools against inefficiencies and not least corruption in Swedish administration is the principle of public access. We use it as a legal tool to ensure a certain level of behaviour in the public sector. What happens if public activities are carried out by private operators? Yes, this presupposes that the principle of public access must be extended to private operators, because it is the whole structure of the model in our administration that will ensure the correct use of resources and prevent irregularities in our operations. The problem is that the principle of public access does not currently apply to private operators operating publicly funded and regulated welfare services. So here we have a gap in legislation. Freedom of association is another aspect. It is incredibly important for the work of high quality in public activities and against maladministration in public activities, but it is also an important fundamental and constitutional issue for employees in the public sector. Freedom of association does not include employees of private actors who are allowed to take care of public welfare activities. Then the policy has an obligation to take action legally. What I want to say is that basically we have a lot of legal issues to deal with. They must be handled properly and carefully, and it must be based on facts. The order we have for this is to set up a government public investigation. It doesn't sound like much fun, but it is important to set up an investigation that is tasked with carefully reviewing the legal issues that are relevant in the particular case. That is exactly what the government has done. It is usually said, as we also heard here, that it creates insecurity in the industry. But it does all the investigative work. The whole point of investigative work is to investigate a number of issues and propose measures. We need to do this. We need to make regulatory changes precisely because we need to create long-term conditions for all actors in public welfare activities. We have had a strange order with a certain piece of legislation but a completely different rhetoric from those in power. I remember the previous government where several of the ministers said that it was inappropriate for welfare companies to be owned by venture capital companies, but there was no legislation to prohibit it. Ministers chose to voice this rhetorically in order to deal with a short-term opinion, and this approach cannot be political in relation to welfare activities. We need to have a long-term perspective, and then we need to develop a legal framework that resolves these potential conflicts that exist in the activities. This is exactly the mission Ilmar Reepalu has been assigned to handle in the context of the Welfare Investigation. Note that we chose an investigator with long experience in the municipal sector precisely because we want to get the municipal perspectives into work, because it is the municipalities that ultimately have to deal with this. We know that this happens when a business goes bankrupt or closes. Then it is the municipalities that stand there and will receive the users. If we are in favour of diversity and quality in welfare activities, we should also act, and that requires certain regulatory changes. No one should be suspected. It is definitely not my ambition or that of the government to do so. We have every reason to find good forms of cooperation with the business community in welfare activities and in other types of public commitments.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-1066	Mr President, I would like to I think we all agree on the need for regulatory changes in certain parts, so we do not need to continue discussing that. On the other hand, I believe that the uncertainty in the investigation is probably related to certain wordings in the directives which were perhaps a little unhappy. Of course, the Government does not need to think so, but there are many of us who think so. It has created uncertainty that may not have been necessary, and it might have gone just as well to investigate anyway. Letting companies take part in developing welfare is a must. We are dependent on innovations, not least in the care of the elderly and in the healthcare sector, and a great deal is going on now. It would be a pity if we were not able to take better advantage of the ideas that exist in the country. Several municipalities and county councils have established so-called test beds to be able to test new products exactly on the target group they are intended for. It is absolutely fantastic and also a new possible export industry for Sweden. It is therefore sad that a large part of the debate is about the form of tenure and whether or not companies should be allowed to make a profit. Basically, it's uninteresting. The customer, the user, wants good services. The important thing is that there is effective work, that the focus is on quality, that there is a realization that welfare services are not only carried out by municipalities and county councils and that we do not let prejudices determine the debate. That's where we seem to agree. We all benefit from the fact that there is an objective debate, and we all want it to go well for Sweden. Then it is a pity that the focus is on the wrong things and that growth in important industries declines instead of growing. I also note that, unfortunately, the parties on the left are systematically distrusting an industry with many women as entrepreneurs. It's just been like that. I would like to thank the Minister for Civil Affairs for the debate and wish you a really merry Christmas. I also wish a happy new year and hope 2016 will be a year when we put the profit issue in the debate on companies in welfare behind us and instead focus on quality.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-1071	Mr President, I would like to I can guarantee Anette Åkesson that we will focus on quality in 2016. But focusing on quality also requires us to develop a regulatory framework that ensures the right use of resources and high quality in welfare activities. Unfortunately, we do not have that today, and that is why these investigations have started their work and been given the task of the government. We will have a close dialogue with the municipal sector on how we can promote innovations in public welfare activities, and I am very pleased that the Procurement Authority is now in place and has been commissioned to work with innovation-friendly procurements. We have great potential here, but it is not just about exploiting the potential, it is actually also about taking action to streamline welfare activities in view of the cost development that we have in public welfare activities. We have major challenges here, and innovations and efficiency improvements are two important parts of the government's response to the challenges we see. Finally, I would like to wish Anette Åkesson a Merry Christmas and a good holiday. I look forward to a good collaboration in 2016.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-1075	Mr President, I would like to Daniel Riazat has asked me what measures I intend to take with regard to the school's swimming education. Being able to swim 200 meters, of which 50 meters back swim, is included in the knowledge requirements for grade E in grade 6 and in grade 9 in the subject of sports and health in comprehensive school. This means that a student must demonstrate that he or she can do this in order to obtain a passing grade on the subject after grade 6 as well as after completing primary education. As Daniel Riazat points out, the Swedish National Agency for Education's report "Swim skills in grade 6" shows that there is a clear connection between starting swimming in early courses and being able to swim in grade 6. This is also why, according to the curriculum, swimming instruction should start already in primary school and include play and movement in water and balancing, floating and swimming in abdominal and back positions. The State's school inspection is the authority that supervises the school system and that checks that the activities comply with the requirements of laws and other regulations, including as regards swimming education. There are also many important, complementary activities outside of school. I can mention the project Gilla v aten which helps children in comprehensive school grades 5 and 6 who cannot swim and are afraid of or unaccustomed to water. However, I would like to emphasise, as Daniel Riazat rightly points out, that it is the principals who are responsible for ensuring that all pupils at least meet the requirements for swimming skills within the framework of the curriculum. This should be done through structured teaching, where pupils are given continuous and active teacher support. Municipalities will also allocate resources to education within the school system according to the different conditions and needs of children and pupils. The government's education policy aims to level out socio-economic differences and to enable all people to develop. School's supposed to be equal. The Government's goal is for all pupils to have an honest chance of success in school, but today many students do not reach the goals of primary school. The government's response to this challenge is investment to early give pupils the support they need and teachers more time with their pupils as well as efforts to increase the attractiveness of the teaching profession, as many times in the past has been expressed in these interpellation responses.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-1082	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Education, for your answer. It is true that Minister for Education Gustav Fridolin has said that the responsibility lies with the municipalities and the school leaders to comply with the law when it comes to swimming education. However, there are a few problems here. One problem is that many percent of the teachers think that the students get too little time for swimming education to be able to meet the goals, which then becomes a bigger issue than just dealing with the municipalities. The second problem concerns the children who come here after primary school age, such as many of the newly arrived children we have here today. In upper secondary school's goals there are not similar knowledge requirements in terms of swimming skills, which I think causes problems, because the purpose of the requirements in ninth grade and sixth grade is that everyone should be able to swim when they have finished ninth grade and start high school. I can take myself as an example. I am 24 years old today. I came to Sweden when I was nine years old. I can't swim. I had also very well approved in sports. I had it in eighth grade and ninth grade. I don't really remember what happened in high school. At least it shows that something in the system is not working properly. It is not the teachers who should be criticized for it at all. In many cases, they do not have access to a facility where they can take the students. The municipalities have not invested enough in the etcetera. Then you have to be part of the government and perhaps change the rules a little. You can make sure that high school also gets a goal and make sure that there is some sort of program for new arrivals. It should not just be based on voluntary initiatives. Imagine, the Minister for Education, if, in cooperation with swimming associations and others, all newly arrived children were to learn to swim, for example, while waiting to go to school – the first weeks or a few months that are involved in some places now. We could at least discuss it as to how to improve the situation. As I see it, the answer is that this is on the municipalities and therefore there is not much that can be done from higher places. I believe that there are certain things that the municipalities will not be able to cope with. Then maybe we'll have to get to it from here.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-1089	Mr President, I would like to There is a particular difficulty here, as Daniel Riazat says. The official answer must be what I said. That is the task of the principals. When we have such clear legislation, when we have as clear goals in comprehensive school grades and curricula as we have, nothing we do must be perceived as somehow relieving the principals or schools of that responsibility. That is why the official answer must be this clear. We have the clear rules. We also support a wide range of non-profit projects, not least sports associations that are now receiving increased resources given the great effort they make and can do in the light of the refugee crisis in the world and that more people are coming to Sweden. I know that some of these projects are about swimming and swimming skills. These are the two things we do: we have clear rules to follow up, and we support non-profit efforts. Having said that, it is easy to note, like Daniel Riazat and various investigations, that we have students who do not achieve swimming skills. There are various shortcomings in the system. There is probably reason to follow it up and see how you can support it further. There's something I'm allowed to take with me from this interpellation. We will have to look at whether it could be clear elements that the School Inspectorate can review or whether there are other ways in which we can promote this in the work against the municipalities. Since the School Inspectorate is an independent inspection authority, a Member of Parliament or a municipality can also hold such talks with the inspection authority. We are now in conversation about the hourly plan. Of course, there are clear requests for more hours on the subject of sport and health. Making sure there are more hours could be a way for teachers to book more hours in the swimming pool. But it is based on the existence of a swimming pool that is accessible and that there is a school that does what is necessary to follow the goals. Daniel Riazat also raises another problem, namely that there are no corresponding requirements for high school. It will be a special problem for a student who comes to Sweden in upper secondary school and who will start in upper secondary school. We must be able to cover other parts of comprehensive school education. If for some reason you do not have a written language or do not know the Latin script language, there is no way around it. If you're going to get through high school education, we're going to have to cover it up and start working on it. Then you get a basic education before you can start upper secondary school, usually within the framework of language introduction. However, if you cannot swim, there is quite a risk that it will not be discovered during upper secondary school age. It's in the primary school curriculum. It is not because it is a tool that is needed to manage to do other things, such as reading, writing and counting. It is there, because we know that swimming skills are extremely important for you to feel safe by water and be able to have that security when moving outdoors. There may be reason to look at it in particular. It is a question that I can pass on to the government and raise with the High School Minister. There is also reason for Daniel Riazat to return to the High School Minister in that part.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-1097	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank you for what I see as a somewhat clearer answer. I understand that there is openness to take on board parts of what I have said. Earlier this year I have raised a motion about swimming skills at school and what to do. In many free schools there are even greater shortcomings than in municipal schools, because free schools simply do not have as many trained sports teachers. According to the trade unions, this is evident from pupils' knowledge of sport and health. It is also about a number of other issues that we do not need to address right now. The focus should not be on that it is important that the students or the new arrivals have to learn to swim because it is about a grade. That's actually the least of the problems. As the Minister for Education said, it is about being comfortable in water and being able to swim according to the goals that have been set. I wonder if there is any possibility of creating a kind of project, via the National Agency for Education or the like, where you go out with clearer pressure on the school heads. You can say that you are investing in swimming education and want to make sure that everyone who comes here, but also all students who have not learned before, can participate. Then you follow up on the school team that already exists. Is it possible to take it to heart and move on with it in some way? That would be interesting, and I think that all parties could be interested in taking part in it.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-1103	Mr President, I would like to This may not fully answer Daniel Riazats's wishes, but we are now conducting an investigation into particularly problematic absences. We usually describe this problem based on students who after some time start to be away for long periods from school. But there are various sub-problems in this. One thing that has been identified is that there are students who have recurring absences in the particular subject of sport and health and actually in particular in certain aspects of sport and health. There may be different reasons for that. It is a subject where there is special exposure to bullying, for example in connection with dressing. Linked to swimming there is of course also the reason that if you have not been taught the basics of swimming and it is suddenly required that you should swim, along with students who have been able to swim many more years than yourself, is the risk that you do not participate quite large. It is in the investigator Malin Gren LandellLandell directive in the investigation about problematic absences to look at individual substances and individual elements. She will look at why absenteeism recurs there and what efforts can be made. It does not entirely respond to Daniel Riazats's wish, but there is an investigation that could find answers in that direction. We are now working intensively with all the different efforts needed for Swedish school to be better and for the school to have better opportunities to meet new arrivals. In that work, we are valiant by various remarks that we are in danger of missing out on certain things. This could be one of those things. So I'll take it with me to the department's work in that part.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-1108	Mr President, I would like to It feels good that the Minister for Education takes it to heart and that there is an ongoing overall work. One of the reasons I raised the issue, which I have also mentioned in my exercise, is linked to bullying and how to design changing rooms and everything else related to them. I don't know exactly why I wasn't interested in learning to swim when I was younger, even though my parents and teachers tried to get me interested. But part of it may have been that you don't want to be the only one in the class who can't swim and risk being ashamed of it. Then you do not show at all whether you can swim or not, i.e. that you avoid those contexts, which in turn leads to absence, and that is not good. I look forward to seeing what this will lead to. It is good for the school leaders to hear the Minister of Education say how important it is to ensure that all students reach the goals. I also hope that this will be reviewed with high school if there is something that can be changed. It is very important for the children and to increase swimming skills in the Swedish school.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-1114	Mr President, I would like to I understand the particular problem of upper secondary school, but at the same time I would like to ask the interpellant to address himself directly to the minister for high school. It's good that Daniel Riazat says that there are issues related to this that are about students' absences. This shows that Daniel Riazat sees that the work that investigator Malin Gren Landell could respond to parts of this. That, too, is my assessment. We know from students who do not reach the goals of different subjects or who get even worse grades that reach the goals, but who do not have the knowledge that the grades should represent, that a recurring problem has been that the student has found techniques to hide their lack of knowledge. It has been a way of responding to expressed or unexplained expectations in the relationships you have with other students or with teachers. Then it will be very difficult to succeed with the teaching assignment, with relations and with expectations in the classroom. That could certainly be something that is also present in this moment, sport and health. We also know that sport and health is a subject that is particularly vulnerable to students who experience abuse and bullying. This also applies to the moment before and after, i.e. during the dressing. That is one of the reasons why there is a greater absence here. But I think Malin Gren Landell will look at this further, because it is expressed in her investigation directive. I would also like to wish everyone in this House and the interpeller Merry Christmas.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-1119	Mr President, I would like to Lotta Finstorp has asked me what measures I have taken and intends to take to prepare young people who live in mills and other places where there are few employers so that they have a better connection to the labour market and are better equipped for the future. I would like to start by thanking you for the question that concerns one of the government's most important areas. More young people should be able to take on the jobs that exist and the link between school and working life should be strengthened are key issues in government policy. On 16 November 2015, I received the Final Report of the Vocational Programme Investigation, with several proposals aimed at facilitating the transition of young people from school to working life. The report is now being referred, but I would like to take this opportunity to mention some of the proposals that have a direct bearing on the question that has been asked. The ability of young people to have a connection to and knowledge of working life is determined by several factors. Among other things, it is about young people having a good range of educational opportunities that can lead to jobs. In this respect, the study has proposed, among other things, a pilot project with industry schools for certain small professional areas. The proposal allows smaller municipalities that find it difficult to maintain a broad range of education and training in the context of experimental activities to offer students attractive vocational training courses that can lead to jobs. I also believe that it is important for municipalities to work together to broaden the range of vocational adult education and training at upper secondary level. The study has also proposed that all pupils in grades 8 and 9 in comprehensive school and grades 9 and 10 in special school should be given the opportunity to carry out at least two weeks of practical working life orientation. Early contacts with the world of work are important in order to facilitate the establishment of the labour market and to enable the student to make informed choices for further studies. In addition, the study suggests that study and vocational guidance in comprehensive schools should be further investigated. Among other things, it proposes a review of the responsibility for and organisation of study and career guidance and how to strengthen pupils' right to guidance. The Government considers that further development efforts are necessary in terms of study and career guidance. The Government therefore intends to extend the ongoing training assignments of the National Board of Education until 2018. I would also like to emphasise that the local business community has a clear responsibility to get young people to take an interest in local employers and thus to take training courses that can lead to jobs at the local level. This can be done, for example, by offering prao-places in comprehensive school or places for workplace learning in upper secondary school's vocational programme. Employers can also engage in the local programme councils available for upper secondary school vocational programmes. The regional competence platforms are also working to create a better interaction between education and working life. The aim is to ensure a better matching of the labour market at a regional level. I now look forward to hearing the views of the consultation bodies on the proposals of the Vocational Programme Investigation and I am convinced that we in this House have reason to come back to the question of how we can strengthen the quality and attractiveness of professional programmes and how young people can become more rapidly established in working and social life.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-1127	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. During 2012 and 2013, I was responsible for producing a locality report on behalf of the Moderates. It was with a focus on mills that have a very genuine historical character and how to think forward for these locations. One place of use I defined as a place with one to two dominant companies where there were not so many small businesses. There are about 100 locations in Sweden that can be considered as mills according to different definitions, including the Swedish Agency for Growth's definition. We are all shaped by the environment in which we grow up, live and live. If you put the place of use in a historical perspective, you get a better understanding of the structures that society is built up of and that are maintained. There are amazing resources in our utility communities. Many have experienced industrialization and the transformation into a modern age. But many have also been affected by large closures. Hälleforsnäs mill in Sörmland, for example, lost 1 000 employees when the plant was closed down in the early 90s. Then there were a lot of mills where many employers disappeared. When we worked on this together in a group to produce the report, I noticed during in-depth interviews with students, teachers and municipal representatives that unemployment tends to be very high at the mills because they have worked at the mill for generations. For young people it can be a big step to study at college or university. You may not know how many other professions there are. They have a proud tradition of, for example, handling iron or steel well. We found, among other things, that the syo-guidance needed to be strengthened, especially in these places. The more I see in Sweden, the sun has become quite marginalized. That also applies to prao. There was a research report a few years ago that showed that young people could list about 30 professions, and there are 60 000 professions, if I remember correctly. Many young people need to know what kind of occupations there are, especially if they live in a district where there is a dominant employer and a great pride in the skills that exist there. It can then be more difficult to see outside society and the pride that exists. Often the association life is also very active, which means that you want to stay. One of my suggestions in the group was that much more must be done in the field of study and career guidance. I heard that the Minister also mentioned it and was very happy, because this is something we need to put on the map more. But even in teaching, you have to raise your eyes, and the students have to be out and meet entrepreneurs. Often there are not many entrepreneurs. That is why entrepreneurship has not been understood. Young Enterprise has a big role to play there. I would like the Minister to speak a little more about Young Enterprise and how to build bridges between school and professional life. Then I am thinking not only of professional knowledge, i.e. practical, but also of theoretical education.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-1134	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Lotta Finstorp, for lifting up Young Enterprise! This is really a matter of heart for me. I usually say, as it happens, that we must train the workers of the future, but also the employers of the future. Young Entrepreneurship really plays an important role in this regard. We know that the form of education where you get to start your own business and run it for a certain period of time during high school can give you good abilities to be able to take on something like that in the future but also that you may find the embryo of what can become a good business in the future. I believe in this concept and want us to broaden it to more industries but also to have a better spread across the country. With regard to the overall situation in the country, I believe that we must pursue an economic policy that will enable the whole country to live and more jobs to be added. The government is now pursuing an economic policy of investment in infrastructure and housing construction to stimulate growth in the labour market. V i is also investing very heavily in lack of vocational training, because we know that vocational training in particular leads to jobs. Last week I received a report showing that seven out of ten people who get through a professional program in high school get a job afterwards. This is probably so important for smaller towns, where we know that in many cases there are very large and strategically important employers who do not find the skills they need. The metal industry, the wood industry and others are really the backbone of our economy. We must ensure that these things are matched so that young people who are now going to enter the labour market can take the jobs they need, but also so that they reflect our skills needs. I believe that vocational training is very important there. That is why I want us to strengthen the status and attractiveness of professional programmes so that more students choose these orientations. J ag also believes that we need to expand the university of applied sciences considerably, because nine out of ten people get jobs after such training. We need to expand vocational adult education and training, which are upper secondary programmes for adults, to ensure that people are able to learn about things that lead to jobs on a broad scale. I want us to do this for the new arrivals too. Many of them come with the skills that the labour market needs, and vocational training is quite the way forward for them to get to work.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-1142	Mr President, I would like to We have a great deal of consensus on how important it is to look at the shortage professions. But it is doubtful, I think, that just because people are missing in a particular industry should match those jobs with those who are unemployed. Then it can be just like in the investment in care for the elderly – that it is not they who are most suitable and passionate about those very issues that actually go to that education. There is a balance in this to make sure it is good. I am also thinking of one of the towns in Dalarna where we interviewed people in different functions. It showed that it is such a big step just to commute to a larger place to work that, to the extent possible, one would rather choose to go unemployed. You are used to solving problems at home, perhaps much more than you are anywhere else. Therefore, it is also in a way more difficult to get out of there. I also think it is important to develop local industrial strategies that are specific to that particular place in view of a wider working life. What we heard from the really big companies in these places is that they find it incredibly difficult to recruit engineers, for example. If it is not possible to commute and live in another, larger town, not many people choose to move to the locality. A couple where both are academics and one gets a job at the mill may choose to turn down because there is no equivalent work for the other. How to solve this, I don't really know. But here also the infrastructure, public transport and those parts come in, both for those who want to stay in the resort but work elsewhere and be able to commute well and for those who on the contrary want to be able to commute in, for example academics or someone with high specialist expertise. Among other things, Finspång was included in our report. Siemens is huge there. You are looking for and need very specific skills. It was hard for them to get it then. This was 2012 – 2013; it may have changed today. For the companies there it was about showing opportunities – that it is possible to live in Norrköping and in a good way commute to Finspång. They didn't want to move there because they might have one or the other who were academics. So there are many parts to this, and I think that a good business strategy in these places is to raise your eyes, think from entrepreneurship and make sure not to keep everything in municipal direction. We may think that Young Enterprise is brilliant, but we also need to create the conditions for entrepreneurs to start businesses in these places. Otherwise, it is a little wasted, because otherwise the talented young people who have a lot of energy, ideas and commitment move. They will not remain if everything in the service sector is in municipal direction. I would like the Minister to comment on that.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-1152	Mr President, I would like to I will start with the last question about municipal government and what it means for business. It is clear to me that we must have a business sector that is flourishing and an economy that is growing and giving us growth. This will enable us to finance our welfare, and then we will have a good standard of living. That chain is really crucial to my political calling. At the same time, I think it is important to know that welfare is not business. It's not the same, at least not in my world. Children and students should not be commodities. Older people should not be commodities. Patients should not be commodities in a market. I think it is very important that our common tax money is reinvested in school, in health care and in care so that every penny of tax goes to our children get the best school results, that the elderly get the very best care and that patients get the health care they need to get a better life. I want to keep these two things separate. I also know that there are private actors who perform various services for municipalities and regions – services that are not really the core of welfare. That's what I'm saying. I myself have been municipal councillor in Halmstad for the past four years, between 2010 and 2014, and know what this means. So I am no stranger to this, but I still think that welfare should be a protected zone. On the question of matching the labour market, it is clear that a well-functioning labour market and economy must be based on a variety of factors. It is about investing so that the economy gets a boost and can grow in infrastructure, construction and more. It is about creating conditions for more and growing companies. It is also about skills provision and matching. Right now we have a situation in our labour market where, according to the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, one in five companies says that they find it difficult to recruit even though they want to recruit. It can be industry, health care, catering, construction, etc. They can't find the right manpower. At the same time, we have a situation where 7% of the population goes unemployed. Then we have to ask ourselves: how can we match it so that people do not go unemployed while companies do not find those they want to hire? Here's an opportunity. That is precisely where lack of vocational training is important. We shouldn't force people to do something they don't like. But maybe we can give them a push in that direction. Let's say, if you study it, you can actually get a job. I am absolutely convinced that the most important thing in life is to have one's own job and income so that one can be self-sufficient. It is good for you as an individual, but it is also good for society at large.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-1162	Mr President, I would like to For me, what the Minister now says is very contradictory. If we go back to the mills it is very important with more companies in the resorts. It is very vulnerable to have only one large industry plus perhaps the municipal sector. It's extremely vulnerable. There are very few companies in the service sector. There are usually skilled craftsmen, but there are very few companies in the service sector. RUT is a very good reform for women to strengthen their own. We see in these places that there are tough demographic challenges. Many nurses are needed in home care. A woman should be able to take the step and become an entrepreneur based on the fact that she may have tried on the entrepreneurship of Young Enterprise. The government doesn't want people to keep doing that. The incentive disappears as you turn down the RUT. There is research that we women are incredibly careful to start their own business. We want suspenders and belt straps so that things don't go wrong, because then we're afraid that our families will suffer. This is often the case if, for example, you go bankrupt. Instead of affirming it, everything should be municipal. For these places it is very important that more people have the opportunity to start a business and, above all, women. It is very often very male-dominated companies as well. We need to strengthen praon and sun in the mills. But we also need to open up to more RUT companies, for example, so that women can have their own strength. Then the engineer may work there and have a wife, or vice versa, who starts his own business and may remain in the locality.
i-d8cc2398f940cddb-1168	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for that post, Lotta Finstorp. I don't see any self-interest in us going welfare to business, but it's good to have more freedom of choice. If a nurse comes up with a brilliant idea of how she wants to run a business or a business, she should have the opportunity to do so even in the welfare field. The important principle for me is that tax money is reinvested in school, health care and care and that we stop the profit hunt that has been going on in recent years. Our common tax money has gone to something other than the students, the elderly or the patients. We can't have that. If this is to be done properly, we must have a regulatory system that rewards quality above all for individual users. I find it very difficult to argue that we need to liberalise welfare in order for it to somehow benefit welfare. Well, well-being is supposed to benefit the patients. That is a very important key principle. I think we need to pursue a policy in general that is about making the whole country live. It is a question of expanding infrastructure and communications and investing and pursuing such an economic policy so that we stimulate industrial enterprises, the services sector and more to grow. We have seen how it has been eroded. We had a former finance minister who preferred to reward the big cities instead of the countryside. It was, of course, quite problematic. Thank you for raising an important issue! I think the debate was good and important. I would like to conclude by wishing Lotta Finstorp and the Bureau a Merry Christmas.
