i-bce1e598f4414c1e-0	Mr President, I would like to Tina Ghasemi has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that people with final decisions on expulsion leave the country. Decisions given by our authorities and courts must be enforced. I fully agree with the interpellier's view in this respect. Effective return is an important part of the asylum process and must be carried out in a legally secure and dignified manner. In the Government's 2015 budget, we have ensured that our authorities receive the necessary funds to carry out returns. The Swedish Immigration Service's latest letter of regulation clearly states that the return work will be made more effective, and the ongoing government dialogue, which we agree with the work's leadership, draws attention to this issue. In the conclusions of the European Council adopted in June, EU Heads of State or Government point to the importance of joint and orderly action on these issues. Sweden intends to make constructive contributions to the further work, including the development of readmission agreements negotiated by the EU with third countries. This could include ensuring the protection of fundamental rights and reducing lead times in a return process. Another point raised by the interpeller is the ruthlessness of employers. It is unacceptable for employers to exploit the vulnerable situation in which migrants may find themselves. In line with this, the Government has decided to set up an investigation to improve the protection of labour immigrants. The investigator shall consider, inter alia, enhanced controls on employers. Sweden has regulated immigration. Maintaining this order requires the enforcement of the decisions of our authorities and courts. A return is always preceded by a careful examination of the need for protection. In order to maintain a functioning asylum system capable of offering refuge to people on the run, those who have not been deemed to be in need of protection or other reasons for staying must return to their home countries. Against this background, the government continues to work towards more effective return work, at home, within the EU and in our contacts with non-EU countries. In this context, it is important to stress that measures taken to implement expulsion decisions must, of course, not violate the principle of non-refoulement or other obligations arising from international law aimed at safeguarding fundamental human rights and offering protection against persecution. The latter is a starting point for the government.
i-bce1e598f4414c1e-7	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Morgan Johansson for the answer and for being here today. I am pleased that the Migration Ministry shares my view that this is an important issue. I choose to highlight this issue because it is important to maintain trust and legitimacy in the asylum system and respect for Swedish laws and government decisions. Therefore, the people who seek protection in Sweden and who receive rejection and final decisions must leave the country. This is also a central part of a long-term sustainable reception. And the people who have the right to asylum should of course be allowed to stay and be given the opportunity to start a new life in Sweden. The asylum examination is binary in the sense that either asylum is granted, or the application is rejected. This also means that there must be a difference between the consequences of these two decisions. It may seem obvious, but unfortunately this is not the situation today. Instead, many who have been rejected choose to remain in the country despite it, either by hiding or by otherwise refraining from participating in the expulsion process. This is a situation that is not sustainable, as it often leads to a parallel shadow society that emerges where people without a residence permit remain. These people often find themselves in an almost unjust situation and easily fall victim to ruthless employers or landlords. The incentives for people with final decisions to leave the country therefore need to be reviewed. At present, there is simply not enough difference between the rejection or acceptance of an application for asylum. I am pleased that the Minister for Migration has commissioned the return work to be made more efficient in the latest regulation letter to the Finnish Immigration Service. I am also looking forward to following the investigation that you have decided to set up and which will improve the protection of migrant workers. But I think more needs to be done to give the issue even higher priority. I think we can do a lot together. Unfortunately, I do not find anywhere on the website of the Ministry of Justice or the Social Democrats any documents on issues relating to return and what you intend to do about the situation that has now arisen. I am therefore concerned that, unfortunately, you have not seen enough about this. Mr President, I would like to My questions to the Minister for Migration are therefore as follows: what concrete political proposals do you have to ensure a legal asylum process? And what other ideas and thoughts are there about this than the regulation letter to the Migration Agency that was mentioned earlier?
i-bce1e598f4414c1e-13	Mr President, I would like to Thank you to the Minister for being here in the morning to answer these questions! Christian Democrat Robert Schuman joined in starting the EU once. He said: Society is built by people but consists through institutions. One could say that governments come and go but the institutions remain. They are a stabilising factor in a troubled time. The really serious thing is when the institutions no longer fully function. I worked for ten years in the Gothenburg Rescue Mission, which is part of civil society. We worked with people with substance abuse problems, psychiatric problems or economic misery, and they lived as homeless people. But they were part of a wider context, and the institutions — social services, police and others — were in control of what happened. The National Board of Health and Welfare even counted the homeless both in 2005 and 2009, as the Minister probably knows. Today there has been a parallel world in Sweden. There are people who live a kind of shadow life, as Tina Ghasemi said. It is people who do not have the right to stay in Sweden but who hide to avoid being expelled. Tina Ghasemi has brushed the main features of this debate, but I would like to mention a growing group of immigrants in Sweden who live in a grey area legally. The Minister is both Minister of Migration and Justice. They come from African countries, among others, and they have been granted a residence permit in southern Europe and come here because they are entitled to it for three months. When they stay longer than they are entitled to, they become undocumented, but the police reportedly make no attempt to reject them under Swedish law. They show up in the evenings at Stockholm Central, and the police have reportedly turned a blind eye to this. The strange thing about this large number of homeless people is that they neither abuse nor are mentally ill. They work during the day in restaurants, cleaning firms, car workshops or in the food industry. They are a new subclass that lives and works under slave-like conditions for small-money, and Swedish laws are out of play. They are not helped by the union because they are not members of any trade union. Mr President, I would like to Minister! This is part of the new Sweden. It will not stop if nothing is done. The institutions, those that will make this society last, have no grasp of the situation. It is therefore important for the Minister to answer the question: in what way and with what measures does the most responsible minister intend to resolve this situation?
i-bce1e598f4414c1e-19	Mr President, I would like to I do not think that we have any views in principle other than either Tina Ghasemi or Roland Utbolt. The principle is very clear. Anyone for asylum reasons may stay. Anyone who has no reason for asylum and thus has a final decision on expulsion must leave the country. That is the obvious starting point. And I think we agree on that. One should leave the country either voluntarily or under coercion, which we also use. Last year there were over 10 700 cases of return. Some 8,000 left on their own, and about 2,700 left under duress. Is it much or little? In any case, I can see that the efficiency of the share and number of returnees has decreased in recent years. As I said, this applies to both the number and the proportion of new cases that have been carried out. In 2012, 15 800 returned. In 2013, 14 000 returned. As I said, in 2014 it was 10 700. We don't have cohort numbers on this. If you are going to get an indication of whether it is going in the right direction, you have to compare with how many new resounding refusals there have been. As a proportion of new cases, a declining share is seen: 64 per cent in 2012, 57 per cent in 2013 and 52 per cent in 2014. It was during the last three years of the bourgeois government. In 2012, 2013 and 2014 we saw a decreasing efficiency in return. We can speculate a lot about why. But I can only say that this should not be the case. There must be order and order in the asylum process. I'll let anyone who stays stay stay, but whoever's got a expulsion order has to leave the country. What else do we get? Just as Tina Ghasemi and Roland Utbolt have been involved in, otherwise we will have a strong call into question the whole migration policy. We are faced with a situation in which support for migration policy among the public will be reduced. Worse still, as both of us have also discussed, we have a growing group that lives in Sweden in a grey area and becomes easy prey for rogue employers. Among other things, Dagens Nyheter has described how it looks. That is why we need to increase controls and impose stronger sanctions on employers who exploit these people. Roland Utbolt said that there were actually two groups, on the one hand the group where they had been rejected but still persisted in the country, and on the other hand the group of people – often of African origin – who have worked in perhaps Spain or Italy until a few years ago. Then the financial crisis struck, and those countries, Spain and Italy, had a much worse economy. Many of those people were simply forced to go north in order to survive and then easily prey to rogue employers. We need to increase controls on employers. We need to increase supervision. We also need to expand the means of sanctions. That's exactly why we set up a new such investigation at the beginning of July. We have also been clear in the regulation letter to the Migration Agency that they need to streamline this work. In fact, so far it looks better this year than it has done in the past.
i-bce1e598f4414c1e-28	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer, Minister of Migration. I am also absolutely convinced that we share the same view on this issue and that you see the problem that exists. I also think that you are giving a good account of that picture and the figures that exist. However, some of my concerns and concerns remain. You briefly mentioned employers who exploit these poor people and talked about increasing sanctions and supervision against them. You also mentioned the regulation letter, which we talked about earlier. However, I miss the way forward. We have a rather acute situation today. I think we need more policy proposals. I do not think that this is enough to overcome this, despite letters of regulation, increased sanctions and supervision against employers. In your reply, you also mentioned shortening lead times in a return process. I am interested to hear what concrete proposals exist at the department to shorten lead times.
i-5NfybQVLuLQextB4s9rHrk	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer to the first part! The alliance became less and less effective when it came to expulsions of those who are not allowed to be here," says the Minister. We also received some criticism that we were in some way hostile to people who came here. At least I want to remember that it was that way. We have a parallel Sweden with people living in a shadow life, a new lower class living under slave-like conditions. They're part of our economy. It's a growing black market. The people I mentioned in my first speech often come here from African countries. The Minister described that they come here, have been granted a residence permit in Italy or Spain and therefore have the right to travel north to us and stay here for a while. When they stay longer than they are entitled to, they become a case for the police. I often meet them among the homeless when I work in the Gothenburg Rescue Mission. They are strong people who have survived. But even if I, as a Christian Democrat, have a deep understanding of people's struggle to survive, Swedish laws are to be respected, even if SEK 20 per hour at a cleaning company is better than poverty in my home country. What is the solution? Either, Minister, we get to integrate these people fully into Swedish society, or they may be rejected according to the rules we have. We can't have this. It is not worthy of these people; it is not worthy of Sweden.
i-bce1e598f4414c1e-38	Mr President, I would like to At the end of my last speech, I mentioned that it looks somewhat better this year than in previous years. As I said when I pulled the numbers, the proportion that really went out had decreased in 2012, 2013 and 2014. For the full year 2014 the figure was 10 700. The figure for 2015 is so far, up to July, 7,200 out of stock. It's too early to talk about a trend break. The figures need to be analysed a little more closely. But at least it looks a little better so far this year than last year. It may well be that our clarity in the regulation letter to the Migration Agency has had an effect. But, of course, we are not satisfied with it but must continue to work to ensure that the principles are upheld. How do we deal with the grey areas, that is, with those who remain in a parallel world? The effective way is to go to the employers who exploit these people and exploit their vulnerability, poverty and lawlessness. Then it's a matter of several things. First of all, it is a question of strengthening trade union organisations. Never forget that it is they who would be able to have strong and close contact surfaces with the employers we are talking about here! Then we cannot pursue a policy of weakening and undermining the trade union movement, which was unfortunately the case during the last parliamentary term. The trade union movement as such must be strengthened because it is it that can intervene in many ways against the employers who are rogue. The second part is the state institutions. We will use our authorities more effectively. I said earlier that we need to expand supervision and control. The Swedish Work Environment Authority is an authority that can do much more. The Swedish Financial Crime Agency and the Swedish Tax Agency can go to those employers who do not manage their books and do not have order. If you deal with financial crime, you will also find many jobs where these people are exploited and have to work for 30 SEK an hour and live in a basement. That's not how it's supposed to be. That is not the Swedish model. But, as I said, we must be prepared to do these things, to strengthen the trade union movement and to increase sanctions for and supervision of rogue employers.
i-bce1e598f4414c1e-44	Mr President, I would like to You mentioned that it looks better, but that we have to do more and that we can do better. I very much agree with that. Although the figures look better, it is difficult to see which measures have been effective. We cannot be satisfied because there are still several thousand people per year who end up in a shadow society. I didn't really get the answers to my questions, but you may have forgotten them. I asked about short lead times in a return process and what concrete proposals the Ministry of Justice has to shorten these lead times. There is also a great deal of discussion about limitation periods in this area, both in Sweden and at EU level, whether they are too short and whether they reduce incentives for return. I would very much like to hear your views on this and if the government has any plans to map out what the limitation period has for the effects on return work.
i-bce1e598f4414c1e-47	Mr President, I would like to As I said, I do not think we have any strong, fundamental differences in relation to each other. We both want to ensure that the principles are upheld. We both want to ensure that the person who has been refused a final decision is prepared to leave the country. That's it. But there are a number of problems. Some choose to go underground. Then we shall go to the employers who exploit these people and who actually make possible the parallel shadow world. The second major concern is that we have problems with some countries that do not accept accepting their own citizens. Then we must negotiate with them so that they accept the rejections. It differs from country to country, but this is under way in the large migration package presented by the European Commission last week. There was a proposal to make European readmission work more effective. This has been confirmed by the Swedish Government because we believe it is important to uphold the principles. It can also have a bearing on lead times, i.e. the time from decision-making to leaving the country. In addition to what we do at national level to rogue employers, to strengthen the trade union movement, to ensure that the Migration Agency works more effectively, we can add the piece of the puzzle with European cooperation. I think we will be successful in this. In the end, it is simply a matter of maintaining confidence in Swedish migration policy, but it is also a matter of preventing fewer people in very difficult situations. We're not there yet. There's still a lot to do there.
i-bce1e598f4414c1e-52	Mr President, I would like to Sotiris Delis has asked me how I perceive Swedish households' finances, what measures I intend to take to prevent further indebtedness of Swedish households, what measures I will take to ensure that Swedish households start amortising their debts and what measures I will take to limit households' credit-driven consumption. Housing prices and household debt have risen at a relatively rapid rate since the mid-1990s in Sweden. In recent years, the rate of growth in house prices and household debt build-up has increased. Like household debt, households' assets, both real and financial, have also grown strongly since the mid-1990s. A significant net wealth of households can help reduce the risk of financial institutions making credit losses on their lending in a housing price fall. However, it does not necessarily protect against negative consequences for the macro-economy. Internationally, there has been a large increase in household debt, which has tended to precede deeper and more prolonged economic downturns. Much of the increase in house prices and household indebtedness over time can be explained by structural factors: an increasing number of households own their dwellings as a result, among other things, of the conversion of tenant-owned apartments, the supply of dwellings in large cities in particular has grown more slowly than population growth, housing-related taxes have been reduced and households' income has grown at a good pace. At the same time, the real interest rate has fallen. Although these factors have a large explanatory value, they cannot explain the whole upturn and, furthermore, structural factors may change in the long term. A number of measures have been taken in recent years to strengthen financial stability, both measures to strengthen the banking system through increased capital and liquidity requirements and measures to reduce household lending. Some of the most significant measures in this area are the introduction of new capital adequacy requirements, the introduction of risk weight floors for mortgages, and the introduction of a mortgage cap. In order to achieve a more responsible market for consumer credit, the government appointed a special investigator in April this year to consider measures aimed at strengthening consumer protection and reducing the risk of consumer credit leading to over-indebtedness. According to the investigator's mandate, interest rate ceilings, cost ceilings and stricter marketing and information requirements should be considered. The investigator's assignment must be reported by September 2016. The government will also present a broad strategy against over-indebtedness in the near future. Due to the withdrawal of Finansinspektionen's announced proposal on amortisation rules during the spring, the government has now agreed, following broad political discussions, with the bourgeois parties, and also anchored with the Left Party, that an amortisation requirement should be introduced. The amortisation requirement aims to address macroeconomic and financial stability risks. This requirement requires credit institutions to apply amortisation conditions based on a sound amortisation culture that do not contribute to excessive household indebtedness. The proposal is the first step towards a legislative change that means that Finansinspektionen can get the mandate required to propose and implement a amortisation requirement. With an amortisation requirement, we increase household amortisation and reduce the risk that household indebtedness contributes to financial unrest. The government monitors the development of household indebtedness both in respect of mortgages and other forms of indebtedness. At the same time, it is important to emphasise that we should proceed cautiously and not take too many or too large steps that are in themselves at risk of triggering uncertainty and concern. Now it is the amortisation requirement that we are working on.
i-bce1e598f4414c1e-60	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Over-indebtedness not only brings great personal suffering, but is also costly to the national economy. On this point, the Government and I agree. The media report that more than 400 000 Swedes are in debt and estimate that the total debt amounts to more than SEK 90 billion. The chairman of Kronofogdens v egenskapliga råd estimates that if you also include family members who are adversely affected by the situation of the debtor, the figure will be by Swedish measures measured gigantic, 1.2 million. In Sweden, we are focused on mortgages, but households are drawn by other types of debt that are accelerating. It's my experience after more years of professional business in the financial sector. The social costs of over-indebtedness are estimated at an unimaginable SEK 200 billion annually, according to the media. The calculation is calculated on the basis of costs of health care, loss of production, unemployment, long-term sick leave, etc. T rooting the initial steps to get to the problem makes the government, in my opinion, too little. The housing and construction markets are over-regulated, the pace of investment is sluggish, housing prices are rushing, people are continuing to over-indebted. Today, we have Swedish households that have outdone the debt of the Greek State and, in some cases, doubled it. V i talk about levels of over 400 percent of disposable income. The Swedish National Audit Office came with a review in June, and when you read it you can see that there are large differences in the basis between that review and the data in the media. I wonder if the government and the government really know what's going on. The problem is so great that it is one of the ten high-priority areas of the EU Commission, and it has asked its members to come up with strong proposals for the solution of the problem. The question is what the government has done on this point. Allia nsreger ingen went to elections for simplifications in housing, investment in infrastructure and others whose impact would lead to more investment in the highly regulated housing market. We lost the choice, and the new government is changing the economy from stimulating the work line, investing and entrepreneurship to penalising work, raising taxes and subsidies and thus indirectly encouraging higher household indebtedness. Significant underlying real problems therefore remain in the Swedish economy, despite a better economic cycle. The government does not use the opportunity to correct matters. The key, Mr President, will be to steer towards a dampening of debt without it taking place in a way that drastically changes the rules of the game and thus makes it difficult for people to plan their finances. We also believe that the effects of an amortisation requirement on household indebtedness and consumption thereafter need to be evaluated before any further measures are considered, i.e. in order to ensure that we do not act in a way that drastically tightens household consumption opportunities and thus impairs growth and the macroeconomic situation.
i-bce1e598f4414c1e-67	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Mr Sotiris for the interpellation and commitment to debt and over-indebtedness. As Mr Sotiris says, this is a very important issue. I am pleased to note that there is an increase in the involvement of the bourgeois parties and of the Moderates in this matter, which I may not have really felt during the previous and previous term of office, if I express myself mildly. I would like to say that in one year the current government has done more to reduce the problems of over-indebtedness than the previous government did in eight years. I certainly do not share the view that the government is not acting; on the contrary, we are doing a great deal. In connection with the budget, presented on Monday, for example, we will be presenting a comprehensive strategy against over-indebtedness with many different components that I assess together will have a major positive effect and reduce the number of people who end up in debt. It will help the people who end up in financial problems of various kinds at an early stage, rather than waiting too long, but it will also help people who have been in debt and sometimes have been stuck with debt for decades. Through better debt restructuring, they can be lifted out of debt and come out debt-free. The strategy includes, among other things, preventive measures, such as increasing knowledge and information at school and making various public education efforts. This is something that the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority is working on. This includes improving information to borrowers so that they know what business they are entering. But it also involves being much better at helping quickly people who have problems with their finances, who, for example, cannot pay their bills. It should be possible to address the problems early rather than wait too long. We are also doing a great deal of work by improving the possibilities for debt restructuring. Among other things, we spend SEK 20 million on the Swedish Kronofogdemyndigheten so that they can work more effectively with debt restructuring and help those who today suffer from great personal suffering, which affects their families and other relatives. By counteracting over-indebtedness, we can reduce a major social problem that involves a great deal of social suffering. But that's not all we do, but we also work with many other things. We have set up an investigation that is now looking hard at improving the loan market in general, increasing the requirements. This includes measures such as setting an interest rate ceiling, i.e. that interest rates should not be charged at any rate. One example of this is Finland, which has introduced such a rule. We are also looking at a cost ceiling so that you cannot charge other types of costs for the loans. We are looking at the companies that are lending the money to see if they are making a reasonable credit assessment, that is to say ensuring that the borrower can pay back. If this does not happen, it is possible that the company will bear part of the risk, not just the person who took the loan. In addition, we are looking at marketing measures to get to those who in their marketing actually mislead customers. We work with housing construction, which Sotiris Delis also brings up. There we have launched a large package that is about stimulating the construction not least of rental apartments. This would in itself reduce the problems by increasing the matching between access and the issue on the housing market. But it would also reduce the need, especially for our young people, to take out large loans in order to enter the housing market. The government is acting very clearly and very concretely, and we are prepared to do even more. We follow developments all the time, and we have clearly extended a hand to the opposition in the Riksdag. Now we have managed to take a major step together by agreeing to move forward with amortisation requirements, as the responsible authorities have said, is an important tool that is needed. We have managed to reach a common position there. Let us continue to hold talks on these important issues, see if further steps need to be taken, take further action. I hope that there is a readiness from the opposition to take the outstretched hand and continue to engage in discussions with the government in order to further reduce the suffering of the people who today suffer from over-indebtedness.
i-bce1e598f4414c1e-77	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. On one point we agree that there is a problem. But when it comes to how to deal with the problem, the proposals differ. The government, in our opinion, has not dealt with the situation as it should be dealt with, namely through a courageous supply policy. However, as the Government points out, package after package, tax increases will follow tax increases. Nothing concrete is being done to liberalise the market, and so we are faced with the problem that investment is slow and will become even more sluggish. The assessment we make is that the government's actions will lead nowhere. We also assess that the government, through the tax increases, limits the space in family wallets, and the situation will accelerate and get worse. Mr President, I would like to When the crisis comes – it's about when, not if – it hits the weakest hard. I have really experienced that situation as a professional, and I promise the Government that the situation and the real people I have met who have fought and are still struggling today with their debts have left a deep mark on me. I can simply say that the government's policy will not have the desired effect.
i-bce1e598f4414c1e-80	Mr President, I would like to I think that, as a politician and strongly committed to these issues, one should perhaps be a little cautious about condemning the measures already in advance. The measures we are now taking are carefully prepared. They are based on solid investigations that have been carried out for a long time. They are based on the authorities that work with debt problems every day. That is why the proposals have come forward. The difference between this government and the previous government is that we are now putting forward these proposals actively. We are coming up with active measures and putting forward concrete policies. We are also prepared to look at measures that may not be popular with some companies, but are necessary to take steps to reduce the problems of over-indebtedness. Then it is about sometimes actually setting the framework for what the market should have the opportunity to do. It is easy to say, as a liberal market, that the market should be allowed to set any interest rates and that it can be resolved by allowing market participants to agree. However, we see the effects of people ending up in very difficult economic situations and sometimes making desperate decisions. You take out loans on unreasonable terms because you don't have any other options. On the part of society, we must then try to create conditions and regulations that help people to be functioning economic operators. Today too many people find themselves in severe debt, sometimes for a very long time. This affects not least the relatives, whom I was dealing with earlier. Far too many children today live in families with financial problems due to indebtedness, which affects these children enormously. Here I think we have a great responsibility to act. That is why I am pleased and proud that the government is taking very big and important steps forward. We are now developing a comprehensive strategy against over-indebtedness. Although Sotiris Delis does not believe that it will have any effect, the assessment from those who follow these issues is professional – authorities and other actors – that this is exactly the kind of action that is needed to break the development we have seen. Unfortunately, this development has not been going on for just a few years, as this government has been sitting, but has been going on for a long time. Not least when the previous government sat, for almost a decade, we saw how the problem of loan markets only increased and increased. The number of quick loan companies rose sky high. Notifications to the Swedish Enforcement Authority only increased during that period. Obviously, the policy has not come up with the necessary answers in the past. It has been clear that further action is needed. We are now taking those steps from this government. Then it is clear that we must also work with other policies. Sotiris Delis believes that the proposed tax increases will have a negative impact. There you can say that the assessments differ. On the contrary, when the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority looked at the reasons why debt has increased as much as it has, they have pointed out that some of the measures taken by the previous government have actively supported the increase in debt. For example, there is talk of the ideologically driven restructuring of housing rights in many bourgeois-led municipalities increasing indebtedness and also, for example, of the removal of property tax driving up prices by freeing up resources for increased investment in apartments and thus ultimately leading to an increase in indebtedness. But now I think it is important not to overwhelm history and who is the cause of the problems, but instead to try to work together and find common denominators. Here I would like to pay tribute to the previous government, which tried to interact with the opposition in terms of macroeconomic policy and financial stability. It is a policy that I want to pass on. Now I am very pleased that we have been able to hold talks and agree on measures regarding the amortisation requirement. However, I hope that there is a willingness to continue this type of dialogue and move forward with new measures.
i-bce1e598f4414c1e-88	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister. Of course, our opinions and assessments differ. I also note that, in a way, the government, between the lines, dislikes the fact that people own their own homes, which I regret. Again, the measures put in place do not focus on the drivelines of over-indebtedness. Therefore, my assessment and that of many others – I am not the only one – is that they will have no results. Significant underlying real problems persist in the Swedish economy despite a better economic cycle. The Government faces a real challenge: to achieve the golden combination, namely a financially strong country with strong family finances. In short, I can see that the amortisation requirement is good, but that the effects should be evaluated. If the requirement does not have the intended effect, we will see what we will do further. In this context, I can take the opportunity to make a proposal to highlight the importance of the problem. Perhaps the government could set up an over-indebtedness commission? This could follow developments very closely and provide more frequent reports and suggestions on how to deal with the situation in future.
i-bce1e598f4414c1e-93	Mr President, I would like to I would like to take this opportunity to thank Mr Sotiris for the interpellation, which has given us a chance to discuss these very important issues. I would also like to thank you for the commitment of the interpeller. It is very welcome. I hope it will provide a basis for further discussions on these important issues. The proposal to set up a Commission or similar is a positive one. This would provide a chance for all political actors to sit around the table together, discuss the issues and try to find common positions and solutions. Perhaps combinations of measures can provide a package that helps to reduce the problems of increased indebtedness and over-indebtedness. I see it as my most important task as Minister of Finance and Deputy Minister of Finance to maintain financial stability in the Swedish economy. There I see household indebtedness – which has been increasing for a long time and historically is at high levels, although compared to other countries – as an important problem. It is an area we need to look further at in order to constantly assess whether further action is needed. I am very pleased that we have been able to take a big step in terms of the amortisation requirement with broad consensus in the Riksdag. But on the part of the government, we are absolutely prepared to continue to follow developments and see if further steps need to be taken. We hope that the opposition will also be prepared to contribute to this type of dialogue, and I would like to note that there is one. That is something that I very much welcome, because this is an area that is important for the Swedish economy and for the stability of the financial sector. But that is not least important – I would like to emphasise – for all the people who are financially affected when they end up in over-indebtedness, as well as for their children and other relatives. During the last seconds of the speech, I can take the opportunity to break a myth. It is not usually a question of mismanagement of the economy, but of having ended up in a personal tragedy in the form of unemployment, illness, business failure or the like that leads you into debt.
