i-07e309588208fc68-6	Mr President, I would like to Erik Ottoson has asked me whether I intend to ask the Transport Agency to review the rules on separation in the airspace in order to enable drones and other air traffic to co-operate in the air on better terms and whether I intend to instruct the Transport Agency to review the design of the control zones around our airports so that only the airspace that needs to be controlled is covered by the zones. Erik Ottoson has also asked if I intend to take any steps to improve Swedish legislation and regulations before the international agreements are in place so that Sweden can become a pioneer country on the drone issue. Let me begin by stating that Sweden was out early and since 2009 have regulations that regulate, among other things, construction and operations with unmanned aircraft below 150 kg. In addition, the Aviation Act applies to all types of aircraft, even so-called drones. But I can also note that technological developments, together with the increased use of drones and the incidents near airports that Erik Ottoson gives examples of, make it necessary to review the regulations. Moreover, the fact that we have different national rules within the EU is not desirable from either user or manufacturer's perspective. I therefore welcome proposals from the European Commission on common EU rules for drones both above and below 150 kg, which are expected by the end of the year. Both the government and the relevant Swedish authorities are actively involved in the ongoing discussions on the regulation of drones at EU and international level. I have explained this in the Riksdag on previous occasions during the year. Since the last interpellation debate in September, the Ministry of Industry has, based on dialogue with the relevant ministries and authorities, responded to a consultation on future EU regulation. Many of the aspects mentioned by Erik Ottoson, such as flying near airports and how drones can co-operate in the airspace with traditional aviation, were addressed in the consultation and are therefore likely to be addressed in the forthcoming EU regulation. Erik Ottoson is asking if I intend to give any assignment to the Swedish Transport Agency now. Precisely in view of the fact that many important aspects of the drone regulatory framework are proposed to be regulated at EU level, I am not convinced that it is desirable to make major national changes before we have seen the proposals that the European Commission is putting forward in the near future. The Swedish Transport Agency's strategy for its drone work also includes reviewing the Swedish regulatory framework. I do not, therefore, want to precede that analysis. However, the government and the relevant authorities are closely following developments. Generally speaking, it is important that we have regulations that support technological development and the new uses and business opportunities that technology entails. In the case of drones in particular, it is important to pay particular attention to issues of integrity, safety and the use of airspace.
i-P1Eq3vyP9H73348TpX2qqM	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. As is well known, the issue of drones or unmanned aircraft in airspace is becoming more and more topical – it has been presented by the Government as exemplary. I have previously indicated to both the Government and others that I think it is important that Sweden is at the forefront in terms of having a modern regulation of this form of traffic. We see unimagined opportunities but also possibly unimagined risks that we will have to deal with in one way or another. That is why it is important that we remain at the forefront all the time. In the response of the Government, I still feel that the work that is being done in the European Union is of great importance, which is right and proper, but we, as a nation, should be able to take precedence, especially in those parts where the European Union will probably not deal in detail with what it will look like. You can be at the forefront without having to complicate things unnecessarily. I would like to take such an example. It will probably take a couple of years before the international agreements are in place and can be applied. In that period of time, we risk not only stopping but also accidents. Can we then do things locally – for example, look at the design of the control zones around our airports to avoid unnecessary stops – I think that is something that we as a nation should do to be at the forefront. At present, it is very up to the individual airport to finance such a design of its control zone. I think this is possibly hampering developments in this area, and that is why I put the question to the Government. One can also look at the possibility of having three-dimensionally designed control zones. You do not need to control the air all the way down to the ground in all parts of a controlled airspace, but there may be spaces where you only need to check at a certain height and upwards. In this way, unnecessary stops that do not pose any risk to other air traffic could be avoided. To give an example, we are now approaching Christmas. If a young or elderly person acquires or gets a small-sized drone for Christmas – not many centimeters and not many grams – and flies over the treetops in Vårby south of Stockholm, then you have to stop the approach on Bromma if this is noticed and comes to the air traffic control's knowledge, if it is during the time of day when Bromma airport is open. There is no risk of flying any large passenger planes between the treetops in Vårby, but the regulations still say that you should close the airport until the police are in place and have been able to conclude that it is no longer a risk. The range of this drone may be 10 meters. The regulatory framework is very edged. There are also rules on the creation of individual units within control zones where there are very large safety areas around such areas where some traffic with this form of aircraft can be permitted within a control zone. The fact that the security areas around and above must be so well-acquired is something that both I and the Swedish Civil Aviation Authority are questioning.
i-07e309588208fc68-20	Mr President, I would like to I do not think in my reply to Erik Ottoson that we can do nothing. However, I think it is wise to wait until the information to come from the European Commission comes in December this year. In other words, there is not much time left to wait. Then we will also have an indication of which parts of the regulatory system are likely to fall within the scope of EU regulation. I think it would be extremely unfortunate if, in parallel with the work being carried out within the EU on its own initiative, Sweden were to produce its own regulations without a common vision within the EU. This is true, as I mentioned in my reply, both from a user's perspective – it is an advantage that the same rules apply in all EU countries – and also from a manufacturer's perspective, because some of the regulations will of course be about how these vehicles should be designed according to a standard for the whole of Europe. In parallel with the ongoing work, the Swedish Transport Agency has the task of reviewing the national legislation. However, waiting for the EU's response before making any sharp proposals, I think it is perfectly reasonable and sensible to strike a balance. One of the elements involved in the discussions that have been on EU regulation is precisely different heights. They talk about over 120 or 150 metres and to look at how airport control zones should be adjusted to allow a still safe situation but possibly more pragmatic approach to allowing drones. Another concern that I believe will become more apparent over time – as we get ever larger drones being driven outside the sight of the person in front of the craft – is to be able to identify and connect drones to an owner or a person in charge. These are also issues involved in the work that is going on in the EU. In total, therefore, work is ongoing in Sweden where the Swedish Transport Agency has a task to review the national regulations. However, I think it would be unfortunate to go ahead at a stage where, within about a month or two, we will get an indication from the European Union. There is no reason for us to keep changing our rules back and forth. This would possibly only confuse the situation rather than clarify it. What we need is a regulatory framework that is clear, clear and easy to understand for those who are going to use drones.
i-07e309588208fc68-25	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for this. We're making progress all the time. I interpret the Government's response in the last speech as being willing, after there has been an indication from the European Commission, to take the necessary steps to make Sweden a nation at the forefront in terms of how we ensure both safety and the ability to drive this type of aircraft. At this point, we will probably have to follow up on what might be needed further in January. On the basis of the response given by the Government in her last speech, I expect that she will also be willing to go all the way and make the necessary decisions, and set up the investigations and form the missions required for that. My question, then, is: what has been the position of the Government in the European talks on air traffic control zones around our airports, for example? Has the Government pushed for it to be controlled by the EU? Or is it something that should continue to be checked in the format that is now taking place, where the airport itself has quite a lot of responsibility for the work?
i-07e309588208fc68-28	Mr President, I would like to I have not been very active on this issue. I think that is an issue that is best dealt with, just as many of these issues are quite technical in nature and where there are many different aspects to take into account, by the authority that we have – the Transport Agency – which is responsible for much of the development of detailed regulations on, for example, aircraft and aviation. I feel absolutely confident that the competence required in these matters lies within this authority, which also has an ongoing mission, both to be active in the European context and to state, among other things, that it is important that the rules we have in this area do not hamper or hamper technological development, but should also be there as support. This is primarily an opportunity for business and for smarter ways to transport goods, for example, or to do other activities in the air. This, of course, means that the rules that we should have should not be extremely technologically dependent. The aim is that we should have safe air transport and that there should be the possibility for these craft to move in a way that does not hinder other traffic and that, taken together, gives us a positive development. This work is ongoing in the Swedish Transport Agency. The Swedish Transport Agency also has a mandate from the Government to review national legislation. Whether it will be appropriate to decide on new national legislation or change of regulatory framework even before the entry into force of the EU depends a little on how clear the information we receive in December. Therefore, my previous answer should not be understood as a promise that we will go ahead only if we get an indication from the European Union. However, it may be that the information we receive in December means that we can see that decisions could be taken here rather risk-free even before the new rules formally enter into force throughout the European Union. But, as I said, it depends on what we see in December. I think it is important that there is as common legislation and as common a regulatory framework as possible throughout the European Union in this area precisely to ensure that both suppliers and users know what is going on. However, the Transport Agency has this high on the agenda and participates very actively and well, I would say, in the discussions that are taking place in the European Union.
i-07e309588208fc68-32	Mr President, I would like to I note that when it comes to the question of what entry values Sweden has had in these discussions at EU level, the Government refers to the Swedish Transport Agency. Nevertheless, I expect the Government to be able, when she comes to the House, to make sure that Sweden's position on matters negotiated in the EU is correct. Maybe she needs a little more time and will have to come back with a more fuller answer. I have full respect for that. Then I'll have to interpel the government again. But I am very curious, and indeed a little concerned, if the Government only refers to the Transport Agency on this issue. The Swedish Transport Agency has a lot of expertise, which is very good. However, there should reasonably be some form of political ambition for which issues we choose to pursue or not pursue within the framework of EU cooperation. I can also feel that it is reasonable for the Government to be able to explain Sweden's position when the Riksdag asks.
i-07e309588208fc68-35	Mr President, I would like to Yes, Erik Ottoson, I can explain the political positions that Sweden is taking in the European Union in the areas for which I am responsible. However, the question you are asking, concerning whether it is the individual airport or whether it is EU rules that should determine what an airport control zone looks like, has not been a major political issue in which we have a very strong political opinion. It is the Swedish Transport Agency that will discuss this issue. If this should become a political issue, we will of course take a position on it. But at present we have not considered that there is a strong political interest in either one or the other. If Erik Ottoson has a different opinion, it is of course perfectly okay to have it. However, the government has not made the assessment that there is a strong political interest in pursuing either one or the other line on this issue. On the other hand, it is important that we have clarity as to which rules should apply. However, there is no strong political interest in the fact that it is the individual airport that should decide this or that it is at EU level that this should be regulated.
i-07e309588208fc68-37	Mr President, I would like to Erik Ottoson has asked me what I intend to do to ensure that Interconnection Södertörn receives full funding and a construction start as early as possible, if I have had talks with my government colleagues in order to ensure a problem-free management of the project Cross-connection Södertörn in the Government Office and if I make the assessment that the government will agree on the implementation of the project Cross-connection Södertörn. Furthermore, Erik Ottoson has asked the Minister for Climate and Environment if she considers that the project Cross-connection Södertörn will have a negative or positive impact on the climate and the environment, what she intends to do to stop the project Cross-connection Södertörn in the light of her opposition to other road projects with a similar purpose and whether she has taken or intends to take any measures to ensure that the project Cross-connection Södertörn is stopped in the Government Office in the light of the possible negative impacts on climate and the environment. The work within the government is so divided that it is I who should answer even that interpellation. I have chosen to answer them in a context. First of all, I would like to remind you that the extension of Södertörn Trail was already included in the national cross-road plan for the development of the transport system 2010 2021. A work plan was drawn up and established by decision of the Finnish Transport Administration. The decision was appealed to the previous government, which annulled the plan in March 2013 in the light of the withdrawal of the application by the Swedish Road Safety Authority, Trafikverket Region Stockholm. The Government decided in December 2014 that Tvärnändning Södertörn may be prepared for construction start 2018 – 2020 based on the Swedish Transport Administration's data. Infrastructure projects are long-term projects where many considerations need to be taken into account. Erik Ottoson can therefore get no other answer than what was left to him in the Chamber as late as 24 April this year, that the project is still in a relatively early phase in the planning process where the route and design are not tested. Projects are assessed in a customary test based on transport policy objectives when developing a national trans-modal plan for the development of the transport system. In such a situation, it is not appropriate for the government to make any other economic positions in addition to the follow-up to the economic planning process for transport infrastructure. As regards the impact of the project on the climate and the environment, the County Administrative Board of Stockholm County has decided, after examination, that it will have a significant environmental impact. This in turn leads the Swedish Transport Administration in its design to produce an environmental impact assessment. The environmental impact assessment will then serve as a basis for assessing the impact of the project. At present, it is important that the Finnish Transport Administration's work should continue in a correct manner. The government is not actively involved in this work.
i-07e309588208fc68-42	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its answer. I chose to divide this into two interpellations, and the reason should be obvious. I put an interpellation to the Government with responsibility for infrastructure and one to the Minister for Climate and Environment. It is known that the views of the government parties on how to prioritise infrastructure projects have been slightly different, and that is essentially what I want to highlight with my two interpellations. The Social Democrats have been in favour of, for example, the Södertörn cross-connection project since a long time ago, and the Green Party has been fighting with its beaks and claws in order to put an end to the same project as best possible. We see the same thing when it comes to Bypass Stockholm, and we see the same thing when it comes to an eastern connection in order to complete the ring road around Stockholm we so badly need. This also applies to a number of other projects where you drive on rubber wheels instead of steel wheels. Now Minister of Climate and Environment Åsa Romson chose not to answer the interpellation I caused her but handed it over to Anna Johansson for answers. It may have made it a little easier to coordinate the answers in the Government Office, I can imagine, but the Government still leaves some questions – even in the interpellation I put to her – unanswered. Has she had talks with her colleagues to ensure that situations such as the one that arose around Bypass Stockholm, where one had to freeze the project to allow the Environmental Party and another thought break, do not need to be repeated around other projects? This applies, for example, to cross-connection Södertörn. Can she look me in the eye today and claim that it will be a simple sailing through the Government Office for mainly this project but also many other important road projects? When it comes to a decision, will the government agree on this?
i-07e309588208fc68-47	Mr President, I would like to I do not think that Mr Ottoson would have had to present the two amendments to the House. I think that became quite obvious when they arrived. It is not that Åsa Romson does not want to answer an interpellation, it is that we have a Rules of Procedure within the government where questions relating to infrastructure and transport end up on my table. In the same way it would have been if Erik Ottoson or someone else had asked me a question about something that ends up in the Ministry of Environment and Energy. Then it would have ended up on someone else's table. It may not be strange or remarkable. I think Erik Ottoson really knows that, but it is also worth recalling that all decisions taken by the government are jointly prepared and taken jointly by the government as a whole. It does not work so in the Swedish government that you can report a different opinion or that we vote on the decisions, but all decisions taken by the government are taken together. All the departments concerned have had the opportunity to look at and support the decisions taken, as well as the decisions on which projects may be prepared for construction start-up. It includes the subject of Södertörn, which was decided by the government in December last year. Whether this in turn means that the project will sail easily is difficult to say because it is in a very early planning phase. If it turns out that the object cannot be completed within the existing financial framework or that the environmental impact of completion would be totally unreasonable, then one must of course take a stand on it when it is discovered. What is happening now is that Trafikverket has been given the government's mission – the entire government's mission, perhaps I should clarify – to prepare the project for construction start. That's what the Finnish Transport Administration does. What Trafikverket then comes up with in terms of drawing, environmental impact assessments and other things is a little early to say. Erik Ottoson will therefore have to wait for these answers until the Swedish Transport Administration has progressed a little further in its process.
i-07e309588208fc68-52	Mr President, I would like to It is precisely the forms of joint preparation and collective decision-making in the government that constitute something of a concern here, given that the party of the Government has decided to get on that boat with it. It is not unknown what the Green Party thinks about road projects, and it is precisely because of the joint preparation the Government refers to that I and others are concerned about whether this and many other road projects will actually come about – although they may be needed and although the calculations coming from the Finnish Transport Agency may be beneficial. It has never stopped an environmental party before when it comes to road traffic. That is why this is an interesting question. That is why the Minister, if she wants to think a little around corners, should try to rake the manage to make sure that this goes as painlessly as possible. This applies regardless of whether it has to do with Cross-connection Södertörn or any other road project that is important for this or other regions of Sweden. Instead, the Government chooses to take the strictly formal approach, and I must respect that. I like the formality and the basic paragraphs. But you also get to see reality as it is and apply some political dexterity if you are to move forward. I hope that the Government will refrain from political dexterity precisely because we are in the Chamber and apply it more on the other side of the Strömmen, but the answers I hear here hardly give any uplifting information as to whether it will actually fight to get through the infrastructure projects that this and many other regions in Sweden need.
i-07e309588208fc68-55	Mr President, I would like to I would like to remind you once again that the government – the whole government – has taken a decision that Interconnection Södertörn may be prepared for construction start. That mission has gone to Trafikverket. So, as far as the project can be managed politically right now, it has been handled. Then it is the task of Trafikverket to produce the necessary documentation and ensure that you get a drawing of the project that is reasonable from a lot of different perspectives. There are some others in the world who are concerned about things other than the joint preparation in the government. I myself, for example, am concerned about the environmental degradation we share in the days, whether we like it or not, and whether we are aware of it or not. I'm worried that my grandchildren won't be able to live good and tolerable lives on this planet. I am concerned that we will have enormous problems with both air quality and congestion and road safety in our big cities if we do not make every effort to turn our transport systems into more sustainable systems. It's about systems where we travel more collectively and by bike and walk more and where we develop the smarter public transport of the future. It worries me. I do not worry so much about joint preparation in the government. I think that we have done well so far, and I am absolutely convinced that we will be able to do it very well in the future too. It would be interesting, however, to hear how the Moderates envisage taking action to meet the challenges of some others in the world outside this House. It's about our common planet and our future.
i-07e309588208fc68-58	Mr President, I would like to So, with two minutes' speaking time, we are going to speak together and in the future. Yes, precisely from that point of view Tvärländen Södertörn is actually quite important. This applies to the transport sector and heavy transport, which will need to get to the newly built Norvik port in Nynäshamn. They will need Interconnection Södertörn in order to exploit the port's full capacity without creating the traffic jams the Government refers to. There are numerous examples of ways to use, for example, Tvärtänden Södertörn to promote public transport, especially in the cross-section through the southern parts of Stockholm. There are quite long-standing proposals on how this could be done, for example by electrifying something you might call the Stockholm Arc or something else. This applies in all cases also to electrification of the trucks that will then have to drive containers from Norvik elsewhere. There are very interesting suggestions for this, and that is what I and the Moderates naturally endorse. However, it is not that it is roads that emit carbon dioxide, Mr President. These are cars that run on fossil fuels that emit carbon dioxide. That is perhaps where we need to focus the problem picture and the efforts. But I am even more concerned about the intentions of the Government when she uses her penultimate speech to basically parry the Green Party and open up that this may not happen after all. I agree that environmental impact assessments are extremely important, and there are important natural values along this route that must be taken into account, absolutely. In this respect, I and the Government are in full agreement. However, Mr President, it is not the case that we will face the climate challenges by no longer being able to travel in vehicles with fewer than nine seats.
i-07e309588208fc68-62	Mr President, I would like to I note that the moderate interpellations I receive are almost always about defending both domestic and urban air traffic. Never do I get interpellations from the Moderates about how we intend to achieve a more sustainable transport system. I only note with some interest that the concern of the Moderates is more about the joint preparation in the government and less about our common future. Having said that, I think that Erik Ottoson understands that my speech was not intended to create any confusion around Södertörn Trail. Of course, the need for it is well established. Otherwise, the Government had not jointly decided to give the Swedish Transport Administration the task of preparing this object for construction start, which the Swedish Transport Administration has thus received. This means that it is assessed that it is both socio-economic and, based on the transport policy objectives, a project to be launched in accordance with the current national plan. That decision has been made by the government. If the Finnish Transport Administration concludes in its continued work that this object is inappropriate and should not be implemented, we will then have to take a position on it. But what has happened in this matter is that the Government has decided that the Swedish Transport Administration will prepare Tvärtändning Södertörn for construction start in the coming years. Erik Ottoson will have to settle for that until further notice.
i-07e309588208fc68-65	Mr President, I would like to Mats Persson has asked me if I am considering deciding on additional directives for the Welfare Investigation due to clarifications in a report that Professor Lars Henriksson at the Stockholm School of Economics has produced on behalf of the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise. The report referred to by Mats Persson points out that the investigation is facing problems that are difficult to solve legally. Mats Persson emphasises the importance of freedom of choice in school, healthcare and care. I would like to stress at the outset, as I have done several times in this House, that I and the government are safeguarding freedom of choice and diversity in welfare. That is why the Welfare Investigation has the task of specifically investigating how this diversity can be further developed, especially in the case of actors in the idea-based sector. Regarding Mats Persson's question whether I and the government are considering additional directives to the Welfare Investigation regarding Professor Lars Henriksson's clarifications, the answer is no. One of the reasons for setting up an investigation is to get legally complex issues carefully highlighted and investigated. The mission of the investigation includes examining whether the various sub-missions are appropriate and legally feasible, taking into account both national and EU law, such as whether it is appropriate and legally possible to require companies in the welfare sector not to make profits, i.e. that any surplus should as a general rule be reinvested. When the proposals of the investigation come, I look forward to discussing them, including in this House. But first, the investigation work must take its course.
i-07e309588208fc68-68	Mr President, I would like to Government! The right to choose and the opportunity for more people to start activities within welfare, whether it is an independent school, a preschool or a health centre, I think for many Swedes is a natural part of everyday life. You don't think much about whether the school you choose is an independent school or a municipal school. At the same time, we need order in our welfare. We must ensure that we have long-term rules for the companies that are in this business but also ensure that we have laws and rules that ensure long-term sustainability. That was also the reason why the Alliance Government, together with the Social Democrats, concluded the Free School Agreement a few years ago. Mr President, I would like to What happened after the election was that the current government, with the support of the Left Party, chose to actually throw the free school settlement into the trash basket and set up the Welfare Investigation. One of the clearest stakes there is from the government to investigate whether it is possible to impose a profit ban or a profit restriction. When you listen to how the government argues and to the government's rhetoric on these issues, it is obvious that the fact that someone picks out a crown in profit disturbs the government and is something that upsets the government. The effect of this is that a wet blanket is now being put across the whole welfare sector and the independent actors who do not know what will happen in the future. Patients and students do not know what the possibility of choosing will look like in the future. Somehow, profit is not the problem. The problem is well if an activity goes with loss, because if an activity goes with loss it will mean that the activity will have to disappear. After all, profit means an opportunity for the business to develop. It also provides an opportunity to operate in other and more places and to receive more students or more patients who want to choose their own welfare business. Moreover, what the trade professor's investigation points to is that profit bans and profit restrictions on three points will not be feasible. Firstly, it is not compatible with the EU acquis. Secondly, it is doubtful whether it is compatible with the Swedish constitution. This will also mean that, in a situation where profit bans or restrictions are imposed, the Swedish State will have to pay damages to the companies that have been active in this sector. That is to say, Swedish taxpayers must pay damages with their tax money to companies that are forced out of the welfare business because the Red-Green Government wants to go forward with this. I think that would be deeply unfortunate. The Alliance has, in the light of the investigation that the Government and the Government have put in place in an announcement that the Government is now going to give the investigation some further assignments, which I think is positive. It is good that the government now wants to do this. However, the issue of profit bans and the issue of profit restrictions persists, creating enormous uncertainty for both patients and students and also for companies operating in the welfare sector. What is so strange and dangerous about businesses making profits? Why is banning and limiting profit so important to the Government? My specific question to the Government is: Will the Government abandon the requirement for a profit ban?
i-07e309588208fc68-77	Mr President, I would like to I think there are a lot of misunderstandings in this debate, and that is not surprising. These are issues that are legally very complex and need careful investigation. As I understand it, there is no party in the Swedish Parliament that has represented the line that profits should be banned in welfare activities. And in the directive to the Welfare Investigation there is no mandate for the investigation to return with proposals for a profit ban. The task of the investigation is to investigate how models could be constructed that deal with the management of any surplus arising from activities financed by common funds. It is a question that is relevant. Most European countries that admit external actors to the school sector have provisions that aim at the purpose of the activity and that regulate the transfer of common resources that have been paid out to external entities with a view, for example, to carrying out school activities. As has been said, the nature of the design designed to ensure the correct use of resources and the high quality of the activities is a very complex issue. Therefore, the government believes that we must give the investigation the opportunity to delve into all relevant issues highlighted in the profit debate. I believe that in their announcement the bourgeois parties raised several interesting questions that were not included in the investigation. We are now raising these issues in the investigation with today's decision at the government meeting, which means a broader mission and a clearer focus on quality and supervision issues. Of course, we also have other relevant issues that lie in the investigation since before, such as regulating the purpose of activities that exist in the publicly funded welfare. It is a model that most other countries use. My hope is that the decision at today's government meeting will allow for a factual discussion, a discussion as well as this, in which we are discussing various methods aimed at ensuring the quality of welfare, both the part of the welfare that is run by itself and the part of the welfare that is run by contract and governed, among other things, by agreements. Then we must not be afraid of any questions, but all questions must be on the table. We must dare to have a critical thought. We in the government must dare to analyse the proposals that we have made critically. The bourgeois parties, too, must have a critical input into the analysis of the possible effects of the proposals they have raised in the announcement. We need proper analysis, and we need a calm tone in the debate. I look forward to continuing the discussion.
i-07e309588208fc68-85	Mr President, I would like to What the welfare of Sweden needs is commitment. We need people who want to improve activities every day and do it better for students and patients. We need people who want to develop activities, who come up with new ideas and who want to push businesses forward. I am convinced that this is the driving force for most principals and teachers in free schools and for most people who work in independent health care and care activities. When you listen to the Government, you can get the impression that profit is the most important driving force for those who start operations. I don't think so. I think the driving force is to do good and to make students and patients happy. What we can note after a number of years with many new welfare companies in Sweden is that they contribute a lot to making welfare better. For example, studies show that patients who choose private health centres are generally more satisfied than those who choose public ones. With that, I do not want to say that private is always better than public, because it can look different. On average, however, these patients are very satisfied. I think it is dangerous to have the entrance that it is the win that is the problem and that the profit should be limited. Unfortunately, the Red-Green Government has that entrance, and the Government itself is an ambassador for that. The government is clear that profits should be limited, that profits are the problem and that profits are wrong. Then you don't have the right starting point. The starting point for us politicians should be to ensure that there are clear quality requirements, a lot of follow-up and rules of the game that make everyone have the drive to do good for patients and students– not to limit or prohibit profit. Undeniably, one wonders why it is so important for the Social Democrats and the Green Party in the government to just jump on the profits. In his investigation, the trade professor also points out that it will be very expensive for taxpayers if the government goes forward with this. The government must intend to go ahead with that. The government had not given this clear mandate and appointed Ilmar Reepalu, former Social Democratic Commissioner of the City of Malmö, as investigator if it had not wanted to come forward with a proposal that would introduce restrictions or bans on profits in the welfare sector. This means that the Swedish people will have to pay the costs. This means that there will be damages against the Swedish state that taxpayers will pay. I repeat my thinking and my questions: what is so important about limiting profit? Does the Government intend to abandon this orientation in politics? Does the Government intend to abandon the demand for profit limitation?
i-07e309588208fc68-96	Mr President, I would like to If we are to bring about a change that means that we get regulation in place that minimises the risks of mismanagement in welfare, that ensures the right use of resources and that provides the preconditions for policy to prioritise in the area of welfare, we need to investigate many different issues. There are risks with all the proposals on the table. If we only focus on regulating quality, there is a risk that we will regulate the quality of such a level of detail that the innovation capacity of welfare companies will be reduced. If we just look at purpose clauses, the risk is that we will have an administrative framework that sets up obstacles to alternative forms of operation. If we only focus on paying out surpluses to shareholders, we may not have a clear enough focus on how quality can be regulated by other methods. We must therefore dare to look at all issues relating to the regulation of welfare. The problem has not been the government's or the bourgeoisie's focus on this problem. The problem is that we have talked about these issues through announcements. What we need in Swedish politics is dialogue and dialogue. We need to look objectively at the issues raised in the debate. We need experience in other countries. How is this regulated in Finland, Denmark, Norway, Holland, Germany and the United Kingdom? What lessons can we learn from their experiences? What are we going to do to provide good opportunities for the idea-driven sector? It is a sector that has relatively difficult conditions with current regulations.
i-07e309588208fc68-106	These issues need to be discussed. They must be analysed and investigated according to the order we have in the Swedish investigation system. When the investigation then leaves its report and we have the proposals on the table, we will have a dialogue between the parties in Parliament on the most appropriate methods. In the commission of the investigation is also the responsibility to analyse the legal, economic and operational consequences of the proposals that the investigation comes with and that they are tasked with looking at. Of course, the investigation will also carry out thorough legal analyses and clarify the legal scope for the Member State of Sweden under EU law. Regardless of which party we represent, we have a duty to the citizens to do everything we can to ensure good quality and the right use of resources in public welfare. Then we must not be afraid of any questions. We must not be afraid of dialogue either. I hope that this discussion and decision at the government meeting today will put an end to a system in which Parliament and the government discuss these issues through announcements. I hope that this will be the start of a constructive discussion in which we take our responsibility and do what the citizens expect of us.
i-07e309588208fc68-111	Mr President, I would like to The Government of Ardalan Shekarabi speaks of responsibility. It's one thing what you say in words, another what you do with action. One of the first things the government did when it took office about a year ago was to throw the free school agreement into the trash basket and set up the Welfare investigation with a clear focus to investigate how profits can be limited or even banned. When the government does so, it is not perceived as inviting talks, but for obvious reasons that the government throws previously made agreements in the trash. It was a pity, for that agreement was conditional on creating stability for those who work in school, health care and care. It had the precondition to create more order and order in the welfare. We do not need less of that, but more. Now we're back to square one. Looking ahead, it is important for the Government to realise that the investigation itself creates uncertainty and has consequences outside the Chamber. The fact that the former Social Democratic council is investigating profit restrictions puts a wet blanket across the welfare sector. Many welfare activities wonder whether they will in future be able to conduct their free school, their private health care centre or their home for the elderly and what consequences this will have for their activities? This means that they do not invest in their business, because they do not know whether the business will remain in the future or what it will look like. The government and we in here need to take responsibility. The reality out there expects it, and it expects us to throw the directive to the profit limitation investigation in the trash.
i-07e309588208fc68-118	Mr President, I would like to That is exactly what we have done today. We have taken responsibility, we have broadened the mission to the investigation and we have taken in the issues that the opposition parties were interested in and that were not in the investigation mission. Now we're giving the investigation a broad mandate. All investigations create uncertainty as to what future regulation will look like. That's the whole point of an investigation – to look at the design of future regulations. All regulations, not least in this area, which apply to public markets have implications for different actors. Then, of course, the issues must be dealt with with with a great deal of responsibility from the political system. That is exactly what constructive dialogue across the block border is all about. After the 2014 elections, we had a situation where the bourgeois parties closed the door to cross-block cooperation. Then we had to start from the conditions, the situation and the conditions. I hope that the events of the last few weeks and months have made us all realise that we have an obligation to cooperate across the block. This creates the conditions for a more constructive dialogue between the different parties. The conditions have changed, if it is the case that we agree to make joint efforts to develop a regulatory framework that minimises the risk of ills in welfare. In parallel with the ongoing work in the investigation, we must work with the management of the activities conducted in our own direction. Against this background, the Government will set up an investigation that will be commissioned to work with the development and governance of these activities and how we can utilise the employees' knowledge and develop the operations.
i-TGigRkafKUpu5BhkHy2C9u	I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions are answered today by Minister for Enterprise and Innovation Mikael Damberg, Minister Isabella Lövin, Minister Anna Johansson, Minister Mehmet Kaplan and Minister Ardalan Shekarabi. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. Minister for Enterprise and Innovation Mikael Damberg answers both general policy questions and questions within his own area of responsibility.
i-07e309588208fc68-126	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask Mr Kaplan a question. Sweden must have more housing. I would say that this is by far our biggest societal challenge. It is, of course, about individual people, but also about the opportunities and development of our municipalities, especially in relation to the migration challenge. We met the Swedish Municipalities and County Planning Committee a few weeks ago. It calls for regulatory simplification and reduction of regulation quickly and across the board in view of the emergency situation. Given that the housing issue is our biggest societal challenge, the inaction of housing minister Mehmet Kaplan is extremely remarkable – I express myself mildly. As the minister responsible, we can not only react to and comment on developments, but we must also start to act on the matter.
i-07e309588208fc68-131	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much, Mats Green, for the question! It gives me once again the opportunity to address what the problem is and, above all, what we in the government have proposed to do. The problem is that for decades we have not built enough. This mainly affects students and young people and new arrivals. What we have is two main tracks. One is that we will make it faster and easier and cheaper to build. The second main track is that we should make sure to invest in the type of housing demanded by young people and students. It should be small, climate-smart and cheap rentals. And we have guidelines for the rents. This is a way to ensure that more is built of the segment that is not otherwise built in Sweden. A lot of housing is being built in Sweden today. We're going to land at up to 50,000 homes this year. Hopefully we'll be over 50,000 next year. But that's not enough.
i-07e309588208fc68-134	Mr President, I would like to Yes, it is built thanks to the Alliance's eight-year simplification journey, but this is not enough. Once again, I only get one problematization and comments from the Minister for Housing. I would like concrete proposals for measures, particularly as regards regulatory simplification and reduction of regulation in general. Nevertheless, Mr President, the housing crisis is spilling over to almost all other social and political policies in Sweden. Now that we have the other ministers in place, I would like to make a call but also an appeal for them to lie on their housing minister so that he not only problematises and comments on the societal challenge but also, particularly in the light of the migration challenge, starts to act. This is not good enough, but more must be done. I call for action on the part of the government and on the part of the Minister for Housing.
i-07e309588208fc68-137	Mr President, I would like to Mats Green obviously didn't really listen to what I said, but it doesn't matter, because I'm going to repeat it. It is a question of ensuring that we create a breeding ground in order for it to be able to build more, especially of the type of housing that has been built very little of the last few years. It's housing for young people and students. Very little of that type of housing is built for a single reason. It is about the fact that those who build do not earn enough money when they build that kind of housing. We are now making it possible to open up for ground instructions. We are making it possible to build in previously exposed areas, on which we have not been able to build, by means of a new noise regulation. We also enable more construction companies, especially small and medium-sized ones, to enter the housing market and build small, climate-smart and cheap rentals. How do we get them cheap? Well, we're setting guidelines for the rent. We have had a consultation session, and we very much hope that it will work.
i-07e309588208fc68-140	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister for Development Isabella Lövin. We all understand and realise that the government's current budget has broken. If the government continues with current policies, it is expected in 2016 between 100 000 and 170 000 asylum seekers to Sweden. If the government is to follow the same principle as before when it comes to taking from the aid to pay for refugee reception in Sweden, the aid risks being more than halved, as has also been expressed by the Minister of Finance. This can have disastrous consequences in terms of prevention and humanitarian aid and must be considered a highly counterproductive and short-term way of investing aid money. These changes may have the consequence that the situation of refugees in the immediate vicinity of the crisis is getting even worse and that even more people will risk their lives to get to Europe. Does the Minister of Aid think that this is a good way to invest aid money?
i-07e309588208fc68-144	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Julia Kronlid, for the question! It is true that the world is currently in an extremely difficult situation with over 60 million people on the run. Sweden has taken a huge responsibility both because we are the fifth largest humanitarian donor to the UN's emergency humanitarian aid and refugee reception system in the immediate region and because Sweden is the largest recipient of refugees within the EU. If, for next year, we were to apply the same calculation model to aid for refugee reception in Sweden as we have done so far, that would mean that we would take very large amounts of aid. That is something that we are currently discussing within the government. It's a difficult situation. How are we gonna finance the reception? But I am convinced that we will come to a responsible decision.
i-07e309588208fc68-147	Mr President, I would like to In Syria alone, UNHCR needs about SEK 40 billion – barely half is funded. At the same time, the cost of asylum reception in Sweden for 2016 is estimated to be SEK 60 billion. It is therefore more than the whole of the UNHCR's needs for Syria's neighbourhood. Also the World Food Programme, to provide food for refugees, is heavily underfunded t. In addition, there is a great need for children to be able to attend school. Yesterday, I met the Secretary-General of PGA, Parliamentarians for Global Action, who was very concerned about Sweden's action on aid. A halving can lead to a vicious circle – worse conditions in affected countries with surrounding areas, more refugees and even less aid. The Finnish Immigration Service's forecasts are not a natural law. Does the Minister for Development and the Government have any plan to break this vicious circle, or is it just going to continue until 100% of aid is spent on migration?
i-07e309588208fc68-151	Mr President, I would like to It is true that the humanitarian system of the United Nations and the world suffers from chronic underfunding. I strongly doubt Julia Kronlid's information that the needs that exist would correspond to Swedish expenses for the reception of refugees next year. They're way bigger. The humanitarian system is barely half funded. Sweden is one of the largest and most reliable donors to the humanitarian system, to UNHCR and to the World Food Programme in the world. Sweden is one of the five largest. What we need to ensure is that other countries also assume their responsibility to finance so that people can be protected in the immediate vicinity too. The possible settlements next year are under discussion. There is nothing that is in any way finished yet.
i-07e309588208fc68-155	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister Mehmet Kaplan. ATL magazine, in its own survey of the cost of bringing broadband to rural households in various counties, noted that over 50,000 households in the country are at risk of being unconnected when the target is for 90 per cent of households to have access to broadband in at least 100 megabits per second by 2020. The Swedish Board of Agriculture's estimate of the cost is therefore not in line with reality, and only in my own county – Halland – more than 2,200 households will then be without fibre.
i-07e309588208fc68-159	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Ola Johansson, for this very important issue which is part of the strategy that we have and which is about creating opportunities to expand broadband in those parts of the country where business and the market will not think it is worth expanding. It is about SEK 3.25 billion in the rural programme, and it is about additional money in the structural funds that will go to the three northernmost counties and there be used to tie the towns together. One problem that has existed is a lack of coordination. We have wanted to draw up a broadband coordinator programme, and it has taken time, but now we have it in place. There are now broadband coordinators in most counties. A number of counties are recruiting them. This will lead to better exploitation and faster and cheaper deployment.
i-07e309588208fc68-163	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. I note that the Minister for Information Technology is not aware of this reporting, although it is the county boards that have given the answers to ATL. The Minister belongs to the Green Party, whose leading representative, party board members and also a member of the Swedish Parliament on behalf of their party are proposing a special broadband tax. At best, this can be seen as a way to fill the gaps in government funding and, at worst, as a way of deterring people from free and transparent information. It would be interesting to know what the Minister thinks this tax should finance and how much money you expect to withdraw with the new anti-rural tax. Maybe that's what's supposed to cover this. Finally, it calls again, albeit provisionally, for information on what the government intends to do now that it is known that the 3.7 billion investment in broadband for the whole country is underfunded.
i-07e309588208fc68-166	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Ola Johansson, for broadening your perspective, because it is needed in this matter as well. It is important to point out that the proposal referred to in the question is not the Green Party's but the creation of an independent working group set up by the party. So this is not the party's policy, nor is it the government's policy. Access to broadband is a prerequisite for the increased use of IT in society and for Sweden to continue to be a prominent IT nation and to be able to seize the opportunities of digitalisation. As regards the government's view of the need for efforts to increase access to high-speed broadband in less populated areas, we see that this is twice as ambitious, in terms of money, as compared with the previous programming period in the type of investment included in the rural development programme. I am very proud of that, but we are not satisfied, and we will continue to work until every household in Sweden has a fast and reliable broadband.
i-07e309588208fc68-170	Mr President, I would like to The Social Democrats said in the election that the pros should be pros. It may sound like a slogan, but it is absolutely crucial if we are to have a society and a welfare that works that we let the professions decide in the meeting with the patient, in the meeting with the student, in the meeting with the jobseeker what method to use. The problem is that in recent years, more and more professionals have sounded the alarm that this is not working. Doctors testify to how reimbursement models can steer ahead of professional ethics. Although we know that the profession of teachers is the most important thing for students' knowledge, it is still that they are allowed to engage in administration and documentation, that is to say, tasks that might not be theirs. I think this is worrying and I am very worried. I would therefore like to ask Minister Shekarabi, Minister of Civil Affairs, what is being done with regard to central governance. This can be tackled from many quarters, but it is not least about the central governance that the government has at its disposal. What's going on in the area?
i-07e309588208fc68-173	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Lena Hallengren, for the question! This is an incredibly important area. If we are to develop well-being, we must give better conditions to employees in welfare. Unfortunately, there has been a trend in which the administrative burden on public sector employees has dramatically increased in recent decades. This means that their room for manoeuvre has been reduced. They spend far too much of their time on administration and unnecessary reporting instead of having the opportunity to spend time, energy and commitment on the core tasks. Immediately after the change of power, the government began work in which we have had dialogue with research, representatives of professional organisations and employers. We have had nine seminars around the country where we have taken in comments. We are now developing directives for an investigation that will work with the development of governance. Here we will be focused on experimental activities, but it is also about taking the measures that the government can take to reduce the administrative burden. It will require a great deal of effort on a broad front, but it is something that we owe to the employees in the public sector.
i-07e309588208fc68-176	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much, Minister of Civil Affairs, for your answer. I am pleased that the work is in progress. Then, of course, work is required on many fronts. The government can of course act, but it also requires county councils, municipalities and other employers to make great efforts. At present, with a large reception of refugees, it becomes clear that it must be individual tailored solutions for establishment, for reception, how to learn the Swedish language and how to best achieve practice. There, the Public Employment Service's procurement models feel like a real stumbling block. It takes a long time and is centralised rather than tailored and flexible to the individual.
i-07e309588208fc68-180	Mr President, I would like to We have had a development in which we have liberalised the private sector but have been regulating the public sector for decades. What does this mean? Yes, we have increased administrative requirements and reduced room for manoeuvre. The procurement framework has meant that we are less able to do good business. What the government is now doing is reforms on a broad front which means that we are extending the scope for the public sector to do good business with the private sector. But it is also a question of using government governance to reduce administrative requirements for municipalities and authorities. If we are to develop well-being and public activities, we must have greater confidence in our employees and their professional knowledge and experience. This requires us to carry out a cultural revolution in the public sector. What does this cultural revolution mean? Well, we must have the courage to trust that employees can be involved in developing public activities and implementing innovations. It requires more influence, it requires a less administrative burden. This can lead to better welfare.
i-07e309588208fc68-184	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Housing Mehmet Kaplan. As one colleague said earlier, we have a great need for new housing construction in this country. I was going to ask you a slightly sharper question. The Government's party is known for putting an end to new land directions and infrastructure projects involving more housing around municipalities in the country and also in this county. My question to the Minister for Housing is clear: are the Minister and his party willing to let go of the resistance to important investments in infrastructure such as Österleden/Östlig länändning, Tvärtändning Södertörn and other important infrastructure efforts to enable more housing, which the country needs?
i-07e309588208fc68-186	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Erik Ottoson, for raising an important issue! Infrastructure is one of the issues that the construction industries and the various actors that are building highlight as a key issue in terms of housing supply in the country, although they have no responsibility for this. It is the municipalities that are responsible for housing, and we from the state can help them. We have seen eight years with two governments, one with a majority government and the other with a minority government, which tried by all means to speed up the pace of housing construction. Some were successful. When it comes to other things, they failed. We take it there and will make it faster, easier and cheaper to build. As far as infrastructure is concerned, we agree. We have the urban environment agreements. We have the Swedish hearing. We make sure to connect Stockholm with Gothenburg and Malmö in a better way with high-speed trains. The municipalities themselves can see what their needs are and get support from the state to expand public transport.
i-07e309588208fc68-190	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for above all your ever-happy mood! The government is the government's sunshine. But it's not really enough all the way. If we are to succeed in building the necessary housing, the Government and I fully agree that public transport infrastructure is necessary. There are such initiatives that the two previous governments and other bourgeois majorities around the country have chosen to take forward. But continuously throughout the country in general and in the Stockholm region in particular, one experiences a stick after a stick in the wheel, mainly originating from the policy of the Government's own party. This applies, among other things, to road investments, but it also applies to track initiatives, such as the cross-rail branch to Kista, which is slowed down by his own resistance to Bromma airport. In fact, if the anti-growth policy is to be released at some point, it is now. Is the Government prepared to do so?
i-MQ6sHjGphma2VPUAdWiAD7	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Erik Ottoson, for the kind words! The environmental party operates differently around the country, and Erik Ottoson probably knows that, depending on which municipality it is and which constellation is in power. In Helsingborg and Halmstad we run together in a way that, I hope, Erik Ottoson can both watch and think is good. But there are also differences of opinion. The environmental party believes as a party and as part of the government that it is extremely important to help the municipalities in their housing responsibility. This is done by expanding public transport, by making it easier to cycle, walk, travel collectively and leave the car. But we also believe that there are areas in the country where the car is needed. It is important not to commit to an ideological vision that justifies a certain type of action but to constantly look at what is best for that region, that municipality and those citizens.
i-07e309588208fc68-195	Mr President, I would like to I would like to ask my question to Minister of Aid Isabella Lövin. In 1975 thousands of Western Saharans were forced to flee Morocco's Napalmbomber and illegal occupation into Sahara refugee camps in southern Algeria. 40 years later, they still live there under difficult conditions, and they depend entirely on the outside world for their survival. Between 17 and 24 October this year, the refugee camps were hit by the greatest natural disaster of all time by a persistent rain that led to major floods. Infrastructure is largely down, thousands of houses have been destroyed, hospitals and schools have been destroyed, and food and other supplies have been washed away. Polisario estimates that over 11,000 families have lost their homes and are without food and other necessities. Already hard hit people are now in an emergency situation and are completely dependent on external support.
i-07e309588208fc68-200	( FIRST VICE PALMANN: A question and an answer should be read in one minute. )
i-07e309588208fc68-201	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Lotta Johnsson Fornarve, for highlighting this forgotten tragedy. It is quite right that the Sahrawi people have been in camps in the desert in Algeria since 1975. This is one of the examples of people in need that we unfortunately forget to talk about when the attention of the whole world is currently directed at the crisis in Syria and at those fleeing from there. Sweden is one of the largest donors of unearthly support to the humanitarian system, allowing the UN's disaster agency to be in place in Western Sahara even when an earthquake strikes Nepal or when additional support is needed in South Sudan or Darfur – where these crises are ongoing. With our unearned support, we actually get there.
i-07e309588208fc68-204	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank you for your answer. I would also like to thank Sweden for providing a great deal of support today to Western Sahara. However, in the emergency situation, additional emergency aid is needed. Several countries — Italy, Spain, Australia, the African Union — have promised additional support at the request of the UN. It would be important that Mr Sve Rige, as a rich country, could also provide additional emergency aid in this very acute and difficult situation.
i-07e309588208fc68-206	Mr President, I would like to I fully agree with the questioner that extra help is needed. I would also like to thank you for giving me the opportunity to point out that many countries provide earmarked support when something extra happens that gives headlines in newspapers or television. Sweden gives all the time. It is Sweden that ensures long-term schooling and health care for the vulnerable stateless people in camps in Palestine, Kenya, Ethiopia and Darfur. Sweden may consider providing additional support. I do not know if there is room for this this year because the budgetary situation is strained. But I know that Sweden is doing a lot for the Sahrawi people through the unearmarked support that is given no matter what happens. Other countries do not. It is also up to other countries to show increased responsibility.
i-07e309588208fc68-209	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Mikael Damberg, who two months ago at Stockholm Tech Fest promised a start-up policy from the government. One of these points was that there would be a person appointed to the Government Office who would be responsible for the start-up policy and to whom these companies could turn. Only last week it was reported in the media that this person has not yet been appointed. Why is the government dragging its feet on this issue? This is an industry where it goes away. Since Mikael Damberg promised this person there have been 65 investments of over SEK 1 1⁄2 billion in Swedish startups. The other day we saw how Swedish King was bought for SEK 50 billion. That's five times as much as Volvo was bought for. There are many jobs and a lot of money at stake. When does it go from talk to workshop?
i-07e309588208fc68-212	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Mathias Sundin, for a question about the start-up scene in Sweden. It's impressive. I meet questions about it in almost every country I visit. That is what we are talking about. Something special is happening in Sweden right now. We should not have an overconfidence that that person is what the start-up scene in Sweden is waiting for most. They want to see a contact with us, and there is. We have allowed them to be consulted on important issues, not least the F inansification inquiry. They have had the opportunity to speak about the options programmes. We are acting at European level on certain regulations which today prevent the start-up scene from developing. There is a well-developed collaboration with the start-up sector in Sweden. However, it sometimes takes time to recruit people in Sweden. It should be done according to all the rules of art. We follow all regulations in the Government Office. I can guarantee that the government's start-up policy does not depend on an official in the Government Office. It is the responsibility of the entire government.
i-07e309588208fc68-215	Mr President, I would like to I do not think that person is decisive in any way, but it says something about the speed of government policy. Another thing that was promised by Mikael Damberg was to review the issue of faster work permits in order for people outside the EU to be able to apply for a job here. There are many start-up companies who testify that it is complicated and takes a lot of time. Again, last week the media reported that such a person, any such person or mission does not appear to exist at all. The only thing that exists is tightening up the rules on work permits that make it more difficult and complicated, but nothing that makes it easier for that type of company. These are people who often receive good wages and become taxpayers from day one. Why is nothing happening on that question either? The government's start-up policy has so far only been talk and no workshop. When are we gonna get some speed?
i-07e309588208fc68-218	Mr President, I would like to The two main challenges for the development of this sector are skills and funding. We can also connect internationali see ring to them. In all three areas, the government has implemented major initiatives. In the budget, there is an enormous investment in skills development, not least in universities of applied sciences. It is one of the issues that can lead to companies being able to acquire skills more quickly. Universities and colleges are also being expanded. We have the entire F inansification investigation. I think it is the fastest investigation ever of such a wide-ranging issue as state venture capital – three and a half months' time, longer than the consultation period. I think that this is an issue that has been speeded up in order to ensure that public venture capital can get off the ground. We also have a new export strategy for Sweden that specifically identifies this sector. I think the government is working hard on these issues. I welcome the fact that more people are getting involved in them. On the other hand, when it comes to work permits, I believe that one should have a degree of humility. We work in many ways to resolve this issue. The Migration Agency is working extremely hard today. They work shifts to deal with people fleeing to our country, and we must have some respect for that.
i-07e309588208fc68-224	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for the Minister for Development. The aid budget is, for obvious reasons, at the heart of our interest these days. It is gratifying, I think, to see what comprehensive support the aid actually has across Swedish society. But more important than ever is that, in addition to the quantitative problem, we also have the energy to think about the quality of aid and to find new ways forward. More specifically, I would like to ask the Minister for Development how she sees that our aid can be involved in facing the exceptional situation in Syria and its immediate region.
i-07e309588208fc68-228	Mr President, I would like to Now that we see that the war in Syria is entering its fifth year, we can see that with our humanitarian aid, that is, what we provide in emergency aid, we have contributed SEK 1.6 billion since the war began. We also have a broader long-term strategy for the entire Middle East and North Africa region, which we are now renewing. There we are trying to strengthen the countries in the immediate region so that we can have a future there too. Now we are launching a completely new, third instrument that we call the Syria crisis instrument. It should be able to support the neighbouring countries in the region, namely Jordan, Lebanon, Egypt, Iraq and Turkey, the countries which today receive the large refugee populations. We will help them with schooling, infrastructure and water supply, what is basic for the communities to succeed. In addition to Iraq, countries that have not received Swedish aid in the past are needed to strengthen them.
i-07e309588208fc68-231	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister for Development, for your answer. The concept of conflict prevention appears more central than ever in view of what is happening in Syria, Iraq and the wider region. I would like to hear the Minister for Development say a few words about how our aid can be even more effective in the conflict prevention dimension.
i-07e309588208fc68-233	Mr President, I would like to It's very important. One thing we have done is to give Sida instructions to review the entire aid so that it will be conflict-proof. A preventive conflict analysis of all our aid is being carried out. I have a personal commitment as co-chairman of the International Dialogue for Peace and Statebuilding. It is a platform for really working with so-called failing states, fragile states, affected by conflict or in post-conflict situations. Together with them, we work with the most important societal functions, including a legitimate and inclusive policy, to prevent new conflicts from arising. They are long-term work. It is countries that are not the focus of the media today but that may be tomorrow. We know roughly which countries are at risk of falling back into war and conflict, and there we have to work long-term to strengthen those who prevent it from happening.
i-07e309588208fc68-236	Mr President, I would like to The functioning of the housing market requires continuous mobility within the existing stock. One's move will be the other's home. Many younger households who have grown up dream of living a little bigger. At the same time, we have several older households where the accommodation has become anything but appropriate. For the latter group, moving taxes seem to be a brake on being able to move. It is a problem that these high costs have to be paid while households need cash in order to finance their purchase of a new dwelling. The Christian Democrats propose that the amount of the deferral be removed when buying a dwelling. We also want the interest on the amount of the deferral to be postponed in the future when buying a new dwelling. This would mean that the profit would not have to be taxed exactly on sales.
i-07e309588208fc68-240	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much, Caroline Szyber! The very basis of this problem is that some eight years ago in this House it was decided to remove the property tax. It was something that the Christian Democrats were pushing. Today, in principle, all experts agree that the unilateral removal of property tax has been harmful – directly harmful – to the functioning of the housing market. Today, to go after another type of tax in much the same way as it did then, without taking into account the broad parliamentary basis for changing things that have consequences at all, I think that is almost irresponsible. But I understand that this is something you want to do, because it is a policy that can have a certain effect. What we have said on the part of the government is to ensure that more is built. More small, climate-smart, cheap rentals will be built so that people in need of such accommodation can move away from their current housing. That's how we get the moving chains going.
i-07e309588208fc68-244	Mr President, I would like to The housing shortage is today on everyone's lips. The situation is becoming more serious week by week, and although much more is being built than in a very long time, the need is much greater than in a long time. Sweden is growing, and it is growing fast – faster than ever. Then you need a plan. Even Jönssonliga had a plan. My question to the Minister for Housing is therefore: What is the government's plan?
i-07e309588208fc68-246	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much, Caroline Szyber, who probably aspires to take over the epithet that Erik Ottoson used about me! The very basis for having an idea of how to handle the housing market is something presumptuous for a Christian Democrat, who has had a party partner who has been in the post of Minister for Housing for eight years. We have seen the result: today we are sitting with one of the most problematic housing markets in the West ever. In that situation, trying to throw the epithet around me seems a little presumptuous to me. To return to the basic question without throwing the epithet at each other: We mean from the government's side that there are two main tracks that apply. One is that it will be faster, easier and cheaper to build. In this way, we will ensure that more construction companies can compete for the few land instructions available in the municipalities. The second main track is to invest – SEK 5.5 billion next year and SEK 6.1 billion the following year. In this way we can have a better functioning housing market.
i-07e309588208fc68-252	Mr President, I would like to I have a question for Minister of Aid Isabella Lövin. In recent weeks we have seen a new wave of terrorist attacks in Israel and Palestine. Over 80 attacks have resulted in more than 70 killed and many more injured. Last Monday, an attack led to the stabbing of an 80-year-old woman. The need for external reactions is great. The reaction of the Palestinian Authority has so far been non-existent. Rather, the situation and what is happening have been set on fire. The Swedish reactions have also been almost non-existent. Sweden is today one of the largest donors to Palestine. When the government decided to recognise the state of Palestine, it also made it clear that this allowed for increased pressure on the Palestinian authorities for peaceful solutions. I wonder when the Minister for Development will act to put that pressure.
i-07e309588208fc68-256	Mr President, I would like to Thanks for the question, Erik Bengtzboe! Yes, it is a very sad and protracted situation that we see in Palestine. The whole community wants that conflict to come to an end. It is very important to emphasise that Sweden's aid to Palestine does not go through general budget support. We support the Palestinian Authority through the EU, the World Bank and the UN. The EU mechanism Pegase is an earmarked support to certain parts of the budget such as salaries and pensions and to employees in the health and education sector. We also support women through civil society organisations and so on, women's work opportunities and water supply in Palestine, which is a major problem. We are in constant dialogue with the Palestinian Authority. We are engaged in a permanent dialogue on human rights, and we have an assurance of rejection of violence.
i-07e309588208fc68-259	Mr President, I would like to Sweden is one of the single largest donors to Palestine. To hide behind other organisations and other donors and argue that Sweden would not be able to put pressure and demand peaceful solutions for how the Palestinian Authority should act feels something world-from-world. When the Swedish Government recognised the state of Palestine, it was made clear that it would increase the possibility for the Swedish Government to put pressure on the Palestinian Authority to implement peaceful solutions. I cannot interpret the Minister for Development's response other than the fact that the possibility of putting pressure does not exist, or the present government is unwilling to do so. Or have I misunderstood the answer and the government actually intends to act, condemn the attacks and put pressure on the Palestinian Authority to act?
i-07e309588208fc68-262	Mr President, I would like to In its dialogue with both Israel and Palestine, Sweden is very clear that we reject violence and terrorist attacks. We have been assured by the Palestinian Authority that it rejects such actions. We're not hiding in any way. On the other hand, we believe that there is a great advantage in coordinating our aid to Palestine with other donors. The possibility of making demands and having a deeper dialogue with the Palestinian Authority through the World Bank, the UN and the EU is greater. There is in no way a lack of interest in following democratic values, respecting human rights and rejecting the use of violence. It's not a way to hide. On the contrary, it is a way of strengthening one's voice.
i-07e309588208fc68-266	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to the Minister of Housing. We have a total housing crisis in Sweden. The government has begun to house refugees or asylum seekers in gymnasiums and is planning for tent camps in the Swedish cold. Forecasts show that we can receive nearly 1 million refugees over the next five years in the form of asylum seekers, family migrants and job seekers. At the same time, we see forecasts showing that construction is declining in 2016. Nearly 45 000 homes have started to be built in 2015, but the number is falling in 2016. About 30 000 homes are completed each year. It is clear proof that the need for construction is extremely great.
i-07e309588208fc68-270	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for asking, Roger Hedlund! In the budget bill for next year, the Government has presented the largest housing policy initiative for a very long time in Sweden. This includes investment aid for the construction of small, climate-smart, cheap rentals. They are extremely important not least for students and other young people in Sweden but also for some of the new arrivals. We have a situation, as described by Roger Hedlund, which means that the housing situation of asylum seekers and other new arrivals must be dealt with. That is why we have introduced, with broad parliamentary support, regulatory simplifications for buildings that can quickly be converted into housing. In the agreement that the Government has with four of the opposition parties in the Riksdag, we have also reviewed how we can support the municipalities in their work.
i-07e309588208fc68-272	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Housing, for answering my question! I hear the Minister of Housing mentions regulatory simplifications and some other measures. However, they feel somewhat comical in view of the situation we are facing. The forecast for 2015 is up to 190 000 asylum seekers and 170 000 in the coming years. Nearly 1 million people are expected to arrive in the next five years. Regulatory simplification is not enough to take the necessary measures. The question is whether the government is planning a new million-dollar programme to address the large housing shortage and the future need for housing due to the increasing migration to Sweden. If so, how is the million-dollar programme to be financed? Regulatory simplification will not solve the housing crisis we are in, which we will continue to find ourselves in and which, moreover, will be even worse in the coming years.
i-07e309588208fc68-274	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Roger Hedlund, for the follow-up question! The reason I raise the issue of regulatory simplification is that there is broad parliamentary support for it in this Parliament. I do not know what Roger Hedlund's party thinks about the matter in detail, but there is broad parliamentary support for taking hold of it. What is fundamental is that people flee from terror, flee from a dictator. In that part of the world, the nearby areas have received millions of refugees over the last four years. The war continues, and then we must search for the other causes of war and work on it. At home we will continue to work to make it faster, easier and cheaper to build. This applies to everyone, not just the new arrivals or those in the construction housing. Now we have work out for a referral about removing a number of requirements for the houses that are reshaped to become construction housing. We believe that this is an important first step.
i-07e309588208fc68-278	Mr President, I would like to I'd like to ask my question to the Secretary of State, Ardalan Shekarabi. In the budget, the government takes a first step towards developing governance in the public sector in a direction that makes the skills and ethics of the professions more indicative than they are today. I see this as a nurse who is very positive, especially since it is something that is very much in demand and longed for out on the floor. The government has announced that it will also undertake a new governance of the public sector, beyond new public management, and investigate the issue. My question is: Is it true that there are plans to review how new governance models can be developed to ensure that public sector staff really get the right conditions for doing good work?
i-07e309588208fc68-282	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Veronica Lindholm, for the question. Yes, that's right. We will soon get started with an investigation work. This issue will not be dealt with by legislative changes because the municipal sector is not governed by legislation, it is a culture. It is a culture that has overly focused on detailed regulation, detailed requirements and reporting requirements. Initially, the intention was to increase efficiency and productivity in the public sector, but now we are spending too much of our employees' time on administration. We will work with experimental activities both at the municipal level and in the government sector. It is experimental activities that are focused on expanding employees' room for manoeuvre and aim to give them better opportunities to participate and develop the activities. I am convinced that this way, by having greater confidence in employee knowledge, we can increase the efficiency of the welfare sector.
i-07e309588208fc68-285	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. When does the Minister of Civil Affairs think it's possible to launch the experiments in the country?
i-07e309588208fc68-286	Mr President, I would like to Our goal is that the investigation work will start in the coming months, and then the investigation will have the opportunity to work with the experimental activities. There is also another aspect, namely the impact of remuneration models on the administrative requirements of employees. We know that compensation models in the public sector have a major impact on employee behaviour. It is important to analyse the effects of the reimbursement models in healthcare, care, school and take the necessary measures to increase the room for manoeuvre for employees. We must also look at the effects of the government's governance of the municipalities. It is clear that government governance of municipalities affects employees' conditions. It is a work that must be carried out in parallel with the investigative work ahead of us.
i-07e309588208fc68-288	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister of Infrastructure Anna Johansson. SJ AB has decided to pull in large parts of the night rail traffic to Jämtland. A tourist-friendly night train traffic will continue to be around 90 days a year, if I understand correctly. The decision has major consequences for the county's inhabitants, for the tourism industry and for the growth of Jämtland and the rest of Norrland's hinterland, but also for the environment, as more and more people will be forced to choose flights instead. For environmental reasons, the development of rail transport is of great importance. Many companies and organisations have climate targets and therefore limit their emissions. For these, Jämtland is now becoming more difficult to reach. This applies to trips both to and from Jämtland.
i-07e309588208fc68-293	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Bengt Eliasson, for the question! I think that Bengt Eliasson, like the others present, is well aware that rail traffic in Sweden is liberalised, which means that it is individual operators who apply for and receive allocated train paths, i.e. where and when you want to drive trains and to what extent. Then there is an opportunity to procure traffic that is socially necessary but not commercially profitable, and that possibility has the Swedish Transport Administration. Which traffic SJ chooses to drive or does not have the government no possibility to influence. However, we can of course purchase traffic via the Finnish Transport Administration, but this is not the case here. However, I can delight Bengt Eliasson and everyone else with the fact that SJ has today decided to increase night rail traffic following contacts with the region, municipalities and the business community in Jämtland. I hope that will be to the satisfaction of all concerned.
i-07e309588208fc68-296	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The last part I didn't know about yet. It is gratifying if such a decision has been reached. Of course, it is not possible for the Government or other responsible politicians at national level to decide which traffic SJ or other companies should run. However, the government can, as Anna Johansson said, add more resources to the pot at Trafikverket, which pays support for procured traffic and thus facilitate night train traffic to the hinterland of Norrland and to other parts of Sweden. Does the government intend to do this to facilitate more train traffic to all parts of the country and maintain good communications?
i-07e309588208fc68-298	Mr President, I would like to No, as our budget looks for the next year, there are no such plans. It is based on the fact that the government considers the procured or subsidised traffic currently available to be to the fullest. Then there may be requests for increased traffic on certain routes. It is, of course, a discussion that will continue. However, as I understand it, there is no need, or at least no need, to increase the proportion or amount of procured traffic. However, as I said, there may be requests from different quarters. I believe, however, that we should be very careful and careful with taxpayers' money. If we now have liberalised traffic, it is a good thing that we also have some confidence that the market partners will solve this type of problem.
i-07e309588208fc68-300	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to the Government's sunshine, the Minister for Urban Development and IT Mehmet Kaplan. The Swedish Board of Agriculture recently withdrew its proposal for regulations for broadband support following objections from the Swedish Competition Authority. In the past, support has been delayed, including after additional negotiations with the EU have been required. The Swedish Board of Agriculture is also late with the development of the new IT system to be used for the payment of this billion-dollar payment. Today, more than 600 local fibre associations have been seeking support for their village networks, and many of them have been waiting for more than a year. But only when the new regulations are in place can the aid be decided. According to the Swedish Board of Agriculture, decisions on the payment of broadband support to local village networks may only be taken once the new IT system is completed. The new IT system is only completed in April – May 2016. How does the Minister for Information Technology see that the aid has been so greatly delayed?
i-TYiNPirA5gzJhzcSPaEbx9	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Håkan Svenneling, for the question! We have received information from the Swedish Agriculture Agency that payments of broadband support within the rural development programme have been delayed and that delays have occurred in the development of the agency's IT system. This is bad. That's not good. It is part of the Authority's mission to develop IT systems to manage the support it manages. When I look at this, I can see that it has been handled in a way that needs to be remade. The government is now reviewing the possibility of amending the Regulation on support for rural development measures, so that we can achieve an increase in the amount of the advances for broadband support in order to deal with this in the long and medium term. This is important for the government's broadband money to be fully used as soon as possible – it is twice as much money as in the previous programming period. The government will deal with the matter as quickly as possible.
i-07e309588208fc68-307	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of IT, for your answer. I think it sounds promising that we are about to change the regulation and that we want to increase the possibility of advances. It is important to get this moving. The county administrative boards have received more than 600 project applications of just over 5 million. The Swedish Board of Agriculture has established a financial framework for each county. For twelve counties it has already been made clear that the budget is too small in relation to the applications. So more money is needed. In Jönköping County, for example, there are applications for SEK 460 million but a budgetary framework of SEK 152 million. In seven counties in Sweden, interest is a little lower – in Örebro, applications represent only 15 per cent of the financial framework allocated. The applications also show that the number of households that could benefit from the aid is considerably lower than previously estimated. The calculations made by the Jordbruksverket show that some 148 000 households could be connected with this money, but if you look at the applications, the money is sufficient for only about 100 000 fibre connections.
i-07e309588208fc68-311	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Håkan Svenneling, for the follow-up question! This is an extremely important issue, and it can be seen that Håkan Svenneling is committed to the issue. I wish that more contributions of this kind were based on facts rather than opinions. I think Håkan Svenneling's post is based on facts, because he describes what has actually happened. We have a situation in which applications are perceived as far beyond the funds available. However, it is also important to know that EU state aid rules mean that support for broadband expansion can only be given in areas where it is estimated that the market itself will not expand within the next three years. It is therefore important to carry out a market analysis. There will be applications that will not be supported, because it will be assessed that the market will be able to expand. It is not about what we in Sweden think, but about what EU state aid rules say.
i-07e309588208fc68-315	Mr President, I would like to My question goes to Minister for Enterprise and Innovation Mikael Damberg. I would like to focus today on this issue of counterfeit goods and counterfeits in the technology, food and pharmaceutical sectors. This has increased in recent years. We have seen this in different contexts. Recently, the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise presented a report that revealed that 80 per cent of Swedish listed companies believed that they had been exposed to piracy, counterfeiting and the like. This is a problem, not only for individual customers, and it is also a threat to health and safety in society if you see it in a wider perspective. This can be about technical equipment that does not work or people suffer ill health when food or medicines do not live up to what is promised. Sweden should be a healthy and reliable country in these contexts. Swedish goods should be trusted. I know we are holding a high tail on this issue. What action does the Minister see that the government can take to prevent this from happening to cross-border counterfeiting?
i-07e309588208fc68-318	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Per-Per-Arne Håkansson, for the question! It is an issue that is not discussed very often among the public, but for large Swedish companies in the export market this is often a reality in everyday life. In several ways this is important for Swedish business. Many of the Swedish companies compete with quality products high up in global value chains. They depend on the brand to last. When buying a product from a company, you should know that you can trust it to be of quality. This is also a hugely important issue for consumers. For example, if you use medicines that are pirated, you do not know at all what effects they can have. You can risk life and health. That is why we work at home, where we cooperate with the Swedish Public Prosecutor's Office, the Swedish Patent and Registration Office, the Swedish Medical Products Agency, ECC Sweden and the Swedish Customs Agency to inform consumers about the risks involved. But we are also working internationally on these issues, because they affect the competitiveness of Swedish companies. We need to get rid of this, because it is unfair competition.
i-07e309588208fc68-321	Mr President, I would like to This is a gratifying answer given by Mikael Damberg. D is ultimately about jobs and growth and about opportunities for Sweden to assert itself in competition. The Finnish Customs has reported that 36 million counterfeit goods were stopped in the EU in 2014, worth EUR 617 million. The numbers give sight for tales. It is gratifying that the Minister is paying attention to this, and it is important for our competitiveness.
i-07e309588208fc68-323	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the supplementary question. I think this is a matter for our export industry. When we talk about our brand Sweden it is not only about the individual products, but it is also Swedish quality that is determined, if our products have great credibility internationally. When Swedish companies suffer from counterfeiting or private copying, the entire Swedish brand is affected in international markets, so it is an important issue. I can also say that here at home in Sweden both specially trained police and specially trained prosecutors work against these particular issues. I think we need to see that this is not just a national issue. We have a lesson to do here at home, so that this does not spread in our Swedish society.
i-07e309588208fc68-325	That concludes today's Question Time. I would like to thank the participating ministers and Members.
